Very good. Good morning, everybody. This is the December 20th, 2017 meeting of the Portland City Council. We're now in session. Sue, please call the roll. Udailey, Fritz, Fish, Salzman, Wheeler.
 Here, the purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everybody and give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve order and to accord in these meetings. I'm not going to read the rest of it. I think you know what it is.
 You'll hear differences of opinion at the microphone. That's okay. Please be respectful of people's testimony. Do not interrupt testimony. Do not interrupt council deliberations. Let's hear what everybody has to say. If you do interrupt, you'll be asked to stop. If you don't stop, you'll be asked to leave. If you're asked to leave and you don't leave, you're subject to arrest for trespass. Nobody wants that to happen. Let's instead just listen to what everybody has to say.
 If you are intending to testify today, you'll have three minutes to testify on first readings of ordinances and resolutions. You can sign up here with the council clerk, Sue, or there are sign-up sheets probably still outside the council chamber.
 and when you have about 30 seconds left to testify in your three minutes, you'll see a yellow light come on. After that, the red light comes on and your time is up. We ask you to please stop when your time is up. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that per council rules. If you're here representing an organization, that's helpful too. So thank you.
 For that, the first item today is communications. And if you could, Sue, please read the communications for the first individual. Item 1354, request of Diane Sussman to address council regarding ways to help residents cope with extreme heat. Good morning. Good morning. Yes, as she said, I'm Diane Sussman, and I'm here representing...
 All the smelly, sweaty masses of Portland, the 60% of us who don't have air conditioning, cope with the excessive heat and smog emergencies that are becoming more commonplace in this previously temperate city. To reverse Game of Thrones, summer is coming. Number one, I'd like to see the city work harder to protect the grid for everyone.
 Few things are more galling to those of us without air conditioning than walking past retailers with their air conditionings cranked to refrigerator temperatures and their doors wide open in 100 plus degree heat. I'd like to see the city pass an ordinance requiring retailers running air conditioning to keep their doors closed if the temperature is projected to rise 90 degrees or above. Or pass a law similar to New York City.
 which requires retailers and restaurants to keep their doors closed any time air conditioning is running independent of temperature. Give the ordinance teeth by creating an app or a call-in number that citizens can use to report scofflaws and initiate fines. Number two, air quality is more than just fire and fire suppression. More needs to be done to combat last summer's air quality emergencies than telling people to stay indoors with air conditioning and not breathe.
 It's time for the city to follow California's lead and declare official spare the air days. Spare the air days make air quality a collective, not just an individual or firefighter's responsibility. That means you, drivers and coffee roasters and barbecuers, and I would add maybe crematoria.
 On spare the air days, make public transportation and the orange bikes free. Make drivers pay for the loss of transit revenue by adding a dollar surcharge on all parking meters. And with apologies to out-of-site barbecue places like People's Pig, prohibit all outdoor fires and barbecues.
 And finally, set up a text-based alert system for residents with asthma and other respiratory ailments so they can get to air-conditioned spaces like Anthropologie and other retailers before the smoke hits the fan.
 Number three, hold a camp out. On select nights in July and August, when there is excessive heat warning and a full moon or close to it, hold hot poetry nights at Poets Beach. You opened Poets Beach last summer for swimming, and it was just an absolutely out-of-sight, terrific experience. Let residents bring their sleeping bags, pup tents, flashlights.
 and poems to the banks of the Willamette for a night of poetry and river breezes. No campfires or smoking, of course, just cooler air and hot recitations. Thank you. Thank you. Can I ask you one quick question before you go? Do you have a position on gas-powered leaf blowers? I don't understand why those guys just don't get rakes.
 Rakes. Rakes? Yeah. So I think they're noisy. We'll have to call the Smithsonian and see if they have. But they're noisy, they use gas, and I'm told they are big polluters. Ban them. Yeah. Make them get rakes. Okay. Very good. Next item, Sue. 1355, request of Stan Herman to address council regarding why the city should have investigated my hit and run. Good morning. I've got a handout for you. Sure. Sure.
 Morning, hopefully this will be my last trip, but see if we can get something settled here. My name is Stan Herman. I've been in front of you for over a year now and no progress. I've testified at the City Council meeting November 2nd, 2016. You're not going to give me an answer to my question, so I'll give you the answer. On January 20th, 2017, I hand-delivered to your office the Oregon State Statute reporting on Enforcement Law, ORS 830-035.
 The sheriff of each county and all peace officers shall be responsible for enforcement of this chapter and any regulation made by the State of the Marine Board in pursuit thereto. Emphasis. Peace officers, including a member of the Oregon State Police, a sheriff or a deputy sheriff, or a city police officer. Or S830.005, thus for the hit-and-run unsafe operation and reckless operation crimes committed.
 and violations discussed above, the State Police, Multnomah County Sheriff, Portland City Police Department are all responsible for the enforcement. The first officer responding to this hit and run is responsible for the investigation. The first peace officer responding to this hit and run was Officer Jeff Myers. He's required by law to start an investigation and he did zero.
 Mr. Mayor, you were wrong when you gave me the answer that the issue is the Multnomah County's responsibility. No, it's the first responding police officer's responsibility. If it was the Multnomah County's responsibility, why is the Portland City Police investigating the fire that burnt down the same warehouse? Whoever gave you that information or advice, making you look bad, the Ross Island hit and run and the city of Portland on your watch, allowing vagrants roaming the committee, and now have a total loss of a burnt down 1890 historic building.
 Your vagrants cost Mr. Herman me millions of dollars. Now let's make some lemonade out of this lemon. In front of you are pictures of what we can do for the city and the communities around the metro area. The 2035 policy for LA stands for Lower Albina. Protect the Lower Albina working harbor. Support river dependent uses. What is what I can do, but I need the city government's help.
 I don't need to go into the details of the type of help I need, but visitors that come to the city of Portland will have a great educational display and tourist attraction at this site when people visit and board the World War II ships moored at this site. Conditional use permit allows for three soccer fields that are designed to fit on this deck, and the site will have food carts on it and a great view of downtown Portland.
 What Portland wants is more river activity. Canoes and kayaks for kids operated by nonprofit groups will fill the need for education, water safety, launching, storage of small boats on the Willamette River. If one of you city leaders wants to hear how we can make this a great project for the community, please have one of your staff reach out to me. Thank you. And do you have any questions? Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. All right. Next person, please.
 Item 1356, request of Brian Quinn to address counsel regarding reinserting Portland sidewalk stamps when replacing curbs and sidewalks. Is Brian Quinn here today? Next person, please. Item 1357, request of Doug Peterson to address counsel regarding concern for future of Petersons in the 10th and Yem Hill parking garage.
 Oh, Jill. Are you Jill? Okay. Yeah, you can come up together. Sure. All right. I just want to make sure that... Yeah. And item 1358, request of Jill Heimansson to address council regarding please allow Petersons to stay. Good morning. Good morning. Hi. I'm Jill Heimansson. I'm Peterson's lobbyist. So I just have a few small things that I'd like to bring up today. First of all...
 So the tenant selection process for the building, the 10th and Morrison building that Mr. Peterson is in, it's the downtown retail council are the people who are going to be selecting the people on the committee that are going to be selecting the tenants for the building. But the problem that we're having is we don't really feel like it's fair because Prosper Portland and the Portland Business Alliance are going to be the ones who are selecting the people who are going to be on the committee that are selecting the tenants, who are the same people that tried to kick them out 10 years ago.
 And so what we're wondering is if there's a way we could get maybe a downtown representative, somebody who lives in the area, or some other kind of fair process to select the tenants for the building.
 So that's the first thing. So the second thing is we're wondering if we could, if it's possible to change the rules so they aren't deliberately exclusionary for Mr. Peterson. The rules where they're basically you can't sell alcohol on premise for people to take with them, and then there's the thing where you can only have three stores and Mr. Peterson's has four, and it just feels like they're deliberately exclusionary, so if there's a way we could change those.
 And then I'm going to give Mr. Peterson the rest of my time.
 Well, thank you, and thank you for hearing us again. We've been here a few times. These are petitions. I just made one set today. There's over 3,500 people that have signed the petition. We're very close to our customers, and customers really do like Peterson's, and we have 900 customers a day on average. We're open all hours at TriMet runs, and we've developed our –
 around the mass transit. That's why I picked that location to begin with, and we're very much geared to that. We're very close to our customers in that we can add things that when people want something that...
 is in demand. We can add it to our stores very quickly. Unlike big corporate stores that have to go through all types of processes to get new items in, we can do it right away. We can adjust. At one time, we had a large selection of greeting cards. Well, that business kind of went away, so we adjusted, brought in more soft drinks and that type of product. At one time, we had 3,500 different titles of magazines.
 Well, the internet kind of cleared out that, so we don't have magazines at all anymore, and we have more and more of what people want, juices, drinks, food, and we're very quick and we can change fast. And that's...
 golly, we've been there 33 years and we're very successful. And I look at downtown and downtown is kind of getting a little sick. The hotel business is very good, but when you look at retail, you know, Macy's went out. There's concern about Nordstrom's. There's a lot of other stores have gone out. And we've been successful all the way through. And, uh, uh,
 Golly, I think we need some assurance that somehow we're grandfathered in that as long as we're willing to pay the market rate for rent, which I don't see as a problem, somehow I feel like we should be grandfathered in. And, yes, the rules they set up on the program through the Prosper Portland program,
 We can't sell alcohol. Well, that's part of our business. That's 10% of our business. But what we are selling is the...
 craft beers, micro-brews, and lots of local of that, and lots of local wines, table wines, not junk wine. And we never carried the problem of alcohol. And to me, that's just a rule written to keep us out. And they also...
 1,000 square feet. Well, I can't operate in 1,000 square feet. 2,000 square feet is about the size I need. But they've drawn it up that way. And so there's...
 I just think there should be assurances that we can come back. The other thing, we'd like to stay open as long as we can. Looks like it's going to be a while now before because they have to go through the architectural approval and building permits. That's not going to happen until sometime in February at the earliest. The delay because of, you know, that terrible accident they had where the concrete fell down onto the trimet stop.
 that could have been very disastrous, and the whole building is built that way. Earthquake, a whole lot of those barriers could come down, and that needs to be remedied, and they'll probably have to have time to do that. Mr. Peterson, could I respond to one thing you just said? Sure. You've been coming regularly and very effectively making your case, so I applaud you for that.
 Thank you. I think if we had a year-end award, you'd be the top of the list. Sorry about that. I'm sorry. It's called democracy, and I'm actually complimenting you for the way you're going about, in a very respectful way, making the case. But you did say something earlier about downtown and retail being sick. I want to share just a quick something I learned yesterday because I met with Travel Portland, and then I met with a big property owner.
 In the last four years, we've seen a 100% increase in the number of people coming here and staying in hotels. Yes, yes. And that's why we're building all those downtown hotels, because people want to come. Number two, apparently we have a retail environment, particularly neighborhood-based, that's the envy of the country. And it's going to keep getting better. Number three, there are a whole bunch of really interesting companies thinking about opening downtown. Okay.
 Of all the factors that they list as risk factors, and you can think of, your mind can come up with most of them, the number one thing that is causing uncertainty in the marketplace is the future of retail. And the future of retail is not a function of what we do on one corner or another corner. It's a function of what happens with Amazon and the Internet and changing habits. I took the pledge this year to buy local for Christmas.
 So all my Christmas presents I bought local, so 70 cents every dollar stays here. But as you know, the trend is going the other way, and people are increasingly using the Internet and other things and big box retail. So those are all the factors. But it turns out we actually have one of the healthiest retail environments in the country. What's different is it's sort of smaller.
 And that's our brand. But otherwise, I appreciate your dogged advocacy. We are local. Thank you very much. And his business is, I mean, it's local business. And, you know, people who are going downtown and shopping in your retail, I mean, they have to go get drinks.
 And they have to get snacks, so they seem like Petersons would fit very nicely in there. Thank you both. Yeah. And I want to thank you and wish you both happy holiday. I want to second what Commissioner Fish just said. There was a survey that came out just the other day that shows both traffic and retail activity have increased significantly.
 In the downtown core. And what Nick just said is correct. Half the retail growth in the United States during the last year was attributable to one company, Amazon. And a large chunk of the other half of retail growth was also online retailers that were not Amazon.
 And yet we seem to be defying the odds here. So those who are shoveling dirt on the downtown retail district and saying it's dead are actually out of step with the reality. The reality is Portland has a thriving retail core.
 and I heard somebody, a retailer downtown, talking about their expectations for next year. They think with the number of new retail sightings that are expected over the course of the next year, they think next year's holiday season will be even more robust than this. So thank you. We would like to be part of it. Yeah, and Amazon is not going to replace his store. Not a chance. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I really appreciate it. Very good.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. So let's get to the consent agenda quickly. If any item has been pulled off the consent agenda. No pulls. Please call the roll. You daily. Aye. Prince. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Could you please read the first time certain item, 1359. 1359. Authorize agreements with Peregrine Sports LLC for the expansion and operation of Providence Park Stadium. Aye.
 Very good. Colleagues, I'm pleased to bring this ordinance to the council today. This action improves continued construction and operation of a $50 million privately funded expansion of the city's stadium, Providence Park.
 The project will add 4,000 seats to the stadium and help both the Portland Timbers and the Portland Thorns continue their amazing success stories as more fans can get to the games. The legal documents this ordinance allows me to sign are the culmination of many months of hard work by the city's team and representatives from Peregrine Sports, parent company of the team's.
 These documents implement the basic deal terms the Council approved by resolution in June of this year. Here to present the items are Tom Reinhart, the City's Chief Operating Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, actually.
 Deana Alexander, the City's Outside Council, with Radler White Parks, and Alexander, and of course, Mike Gullib, the President of Business for Peregrine Sports. Good morning. Tom, did you want to kick us off? Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council. Again, my name is Tom Reinhart. I'm the City's Chief Administrative Officer, and I'm proud to represent the team this morning on this important item. The agreement before you in these documents is consistent with the terms approved by Council in June.
 Just to reiterate, Peregrine Sports is paying for the entire design and construction costs of the project, estimated at $50 million, as well as any cost overruns associated with the project that may occur. As a reminder and a link to what you heard last week, this project is a great example of a beneficial impact on the city's net position that Chief Financial Officer Ken Russ discussed with you in his presentation. The city gains a physical asset without increasing our debt.
 While the city is exempting payment of certain ticket tax revenue to help offset the cost, the value of those exemptions is projected to be less than the increased revenue the city will collect after the exemption period ends. The combined value of the exemptions over the life of the agreement, as a reminder to Council, is estimated to be between $3.7 million and $5.1 million.
 and factoring in our other expenses, the net positive for the spectator venues and visitor activities fund is between $2 million and $5 million. Our direct costs related to the expansion are for legal counsel and construction oversight, an estimated $700,000.
 Today, the ordinance before you is an emergency ordinance because construction is already well underway after council granted approval to proceed on limited construction activities in September. As we all know, it's important to move forward quickly to keep the project on schedule. While the ordinance finalizes the business deal, other related items will return to you in the coming months. Let me give you a sneak preview of those.
 Peregrine and the City are working with the Stadium Oversight Committee, including representatives from the Goose Hollow Foothills League and the Northwest District Association to update the Good Neighbor Agreement and the Comprehensive Transportation Management Plan to address potential impacts on the neighborhood due to this project. These documents, which are required by our zoning code, will be brought to you for adoption before the expansion opens.
 Before Mike gets us all excited again about this terrific expansion to our stadium and the benefits for the city, I'm going to invite Dina Alexander, our excellent outside legal counsel, to briefly talk about the deal points and associated documents before you.
 Thanks, Tom. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, Dena Alexander, Radler White Parks and Alexander, outside counsel for the city on this transaction. And Tom has summarized the business and key deal points, so I thought I would briefly summarize the key legal documents associated with this transaction, and there are four of them. The first is the expansion redevelopment agreement agreement
 And this expansion was technically an enhancement under your existing stadium operating agreement. That fact enabled us to create a one-off document that was specific to and tailored to this expansion itself. And that document mirrors the 2010 redevelopment agreement, but was tailored to it and things were removed from it that were inapplicable.
 The fundamentals of the expansion redevelopment agreement relate to the design and construction of the expansion itself and the approvals that the city has over design and construction, as well as contractors, architects, other consultants, and the contracts associated with those folks to the extent that their values exceed $100,000.
 The redevelopment agreement also covers key public goals and objectives, a few examples of which are the city's green building policies, the Good Neighbor Agreement, and an amendment to the CTMP.
 In addition, this transaction required us to amend the existing stadium operating agreement. And that amendment was necessary primarily because of the economic terms that Tom explained related to the deal. So that amendment reflects the ticket tax exemptions that were fundamental to this deal.
 That amendment also covers the arcade, which is the encroachment into the Southwest 18th right-of-way that came to you previously before council. And there were some key terms and conditions that we negotiated related to that unique feature of the expansion.
 The third document is a performance and completion guarantee. This is a guarantee signed by both Merritt Paulson and Hank Paulson, and they personally have guaranteed the completion of the expansion or otherwise to make the city whole.
 And this was a key legal document for the city to protect against any financial risk, again bolstering the fact that Peregrine was willing to pay for the expansion, but protecting the city in a more personal way by the two Paulsons.
 The last key document was an amendment to the Exclusive Use and Guarantee Agreement. And this agreement is also part of the 2010 transaction. And that document fundamentally ensures that the Timbers in 2010 would play most of their home games in the stadium. In 2010, of course, the Thorns didn't exist.
 And so we amended this document to add the thorns and ensure that the thorns play most of their home games in the stadium with a few limited specified exceptions. For example, if Peregrine should sell the team to an unaffiliated third party, if the league should dissolve, or if attendance should fall to some levels that would make it unviable to retain them in the stadium. Could you just explain the first of those, if they were to sell the thorns?
 Yes, so if part of the negotiation was if Peregrine sells the team to a party that has no affiliation with the Paulson family, that they would not be required in that circumstance to necessarily keep them in the stadium. And, Commissioner, this was...
 This was a challenging, yet I think ultimately productive negotiation in that this was not something that Peregrine had, was required in the initial deal, was not something that they necessarily had to agree to at all. Well, have they agreed to? It sounds like they haven't agreed to really very much. They have because that team is, as you know, is arguably the most successful women's sports team in the world. There's definitely incentive.
 for Peregrine to keep them and have them playing here because they are so successful and their attendance numbers are so high. But why did we allow them to potentially sell the Thorns which would be a big impact to the city in terms of future ticket taxes? Yes.
 We didn't feel that we had the ability, and frankly, they can sell the timbers as well. I mean, we have never tried to tie their hands in terms of forcing them to retain ownership of either of the teams, Commissioner.
 And it was all in all just part of the negotiation to get the best deal we could for the city related to having the Thorns play most of their home games in the stadium. Well, as you mentioned, obviously they are the most successful women's sports team in the world. And there's no way that the league would allow them to move, given that they're fundamentally required for this. Their attendance is required, and there's nowhere else in the area that they could play with the same attendance. So there's that. I just...
 therefore question why there is in the contract that they can move the team at all. Maybe Mr. Golub could get to that when it's his turn. Sorry, do go ahead. Thank you. So those are the four key documents. And again, an amendment to the Good Neighbor Agreement and the CTMP will be coming back before you, before the expansion opens. And that's unless you have questions, that's all I have. Good. Thank you.
 Very good. Any public testimony on this item? Mr. Gollar, I apologize. Sorry, Mike. Thank you. Good morning. Mike Gollar, President of the Timbers and Thorns. First of all, let me, on behalf of Merit and the entire organization, thank all of you and your respective staffs for the immense amount of work and energy and passion you've put behind bringing this deal to fruition so expeditiously. We're deeply grateful. In our view, it's a
 amazing example of a public-private partnership that works. Our collective resources and expertise are brought together to do something that otherwise wouldn't be possible. We're enormously proud of our seven years of Timbers and five years of the Thorns. We believe firmly that this deal and this project will allow us to build on success and the positive impact we have had in the community for
 many years to come. We've got a couple of slides we want to share with you. I think we've in the past showed you some of the renderings. We've got some updated ones to share that we thought you'd find interesting. This is a visual from the Timbers Army's perspective, from the north end of the stadium, of what the new...
 stadium will look like. Again, three levels over the existing east side of the stadium. That's going to add 4,000 seats. And as a reminder, we've sold out every game we've ever played and have a waiting list of
 14,000 plus fans who are wanting to get Timber season tickets. So this will allow us to satisfy at least a portion of those. And we've sold out a number of Thorns games over the years. So the Thorns, too, will benefit from the stadium expansion. And then here's an exterior looking from the intersection of 18th and Morrison.
 TriMet station to your lower left. And we think it's going to be just a beautiful addition to the stadium. It blends the old and new very elegantly, creates energy inside and outside. And a reminder, Architect is local architects at Allied Works. So we're very proud that we're partnering with some of the best local people in their respective fields. Thank you.
 And lastly, and Amanda, I'll be happy to address your question, but lastly I wanted to give special thanks to Tom and Dina and Susan and Ken and Carl and Zoe. They've been terrific to work with, and we appreciate their efforts, their caffeine, their sugar, and their sense of humor during the process. We think we've gotten to a good place. Thanks. Thank you. Would you address my question, please? So obviously we're enormously proud of what we've done with the Thorns. Thank you.
 It has been a remarkable success story on every level.
 And as Dina mentioned, there's no women's team in the world that's doing what we're doing. And we've demonstrated our commitment and passion and investment to women's sports repeatedly. This deal doesn't change that in any way. But a reminder, Commissioner Fritz, that our original deal with the city and the attendant to economics were never predicated on the Thorns because, as Dina pointed out, the Thorns were not contemplated.
 and what the provision that Dina referenced allows us is future flexibility should we need it. Again, our intent is to keep the Timbers and Thorns here for many, many years. That's why we're doing this project to begin with, because we felt that if we didn't do this project and didn't invest the $50 to $60 million that we're investing, that the stadium could actually lose its viability to host the teams in the future. So the very reason why we're doing this is to ensure –
 The two clubs are here for the long term, but this particular provision allows us the ability, should ownership want, to sell the Thorns to a different entity. And with the history of uncertainty around women's sports and women's sports league, it's not a crazy potential scenario.
 I wouldn't object if the league dissolves. However, while your point is correct that the original deal was not predicated on the Thorns, this deal, in my mind, was predicated on the Thorns being part of it, partly for the ticket taxes and partly because this is a community that values women in sports as well as men.
 So obviously this is an emergency ordinance and I have no wish to spend another seven years earning my way back into the good graces of the Timbers Army by voting against it. And still this is really quite a disappointment to me. If it weren't for the fact that I believe that the League will not allow the Thorns to go elsewhere, at least for the foreseeable future, I would have...
 I might be willing to object to you more strongly, but as it is, I'll support this. Commissioner Fish. Well, it does prompt one question I'll put to Tom, which is, and Amanda alluded to it, if the thorns, if the league dissolved or the thorns were sold, how does that impact the economics of our deal in terms of the stadium expansion?
 Well, Dana can correct me if I'm wrong about this, but my understanding of it is we do have future cash flow projections on ticket sales for the Thorns in the scenario for the Spectator Venues Fund. It would marginally decrease the upside and the positive nature of the cash flow in the years to come, but it wouldn't send it to a negative balance in terms of the cash flow on the fund.
 I also want to address Commissioner Fritz's question as well and add to what Dean and Mike said. While we didn't get encumbrance on sale, I think it's important, Commissioner Fritz, for me to tell you that the team worked very hard to ensure that the majority of home games are played at Providence Park.
 that we worked hard on a threshold that the attendance would have to dip under for them to have the flexibility that they originally wanted, which was to potentially move to another stadium. So I want to assure you from the team's perspective that we worked very hard to get as far as we could on the protections around the Thorns. And I just want to make sure you heard that from me on the record. I appreciate that. Supposing either team played a game, say, at Otson Stadium, would the city get ticket taxes from that?
 No, games are not played in the stadium, which is why we worked very hard to respond to our partners' need for some flexibility in promoting the team's brand far and wide, but also ensuring that we have adequate revenue for the stadium. So in response to Commissioner Fish's question, what is the expected revenue from Thorns ticket taxes? Yeah.
 annually in this agreement. I don't have that figure in front of me. Mike, do you have that off the top of your head? Even Susan Hartness is shaking her head. I don't, but let me also add, Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Fish, our economic incentives are absolutely 100% aligned. We want as many events at the stadium, including the Thorns, as do you for many of the same reasons.
 We're playing Timbers 2 games in the stadium. That's something we didn't anticipate. Our non-game event business has increased. So should the league fall, which, you know, there's no sign that the league's in trouble, but should the league fall, there's so many other opportunities that we consider to look at that will fulfill the event calendar and the attendant revenues. Mike, let me pick up on that for a second. First of all, have you made a formal announcement yet about the Timbers coach?
 We have. We announced it earlier this week. Do you want to share it with us? Sure. His name is Giovanni Savarese. He's a Venezuelan international. He played in MLS for the New York team for many years.
 has played around the world and for the last seven years coached the New York Cosmos, a venerable soccer brand that's done very well under his watch, winning several championships. He's 46, speaks four languages, fell in love with Portland, and I think you'll find him incredibly passionate, engaging player
 person and a terrific on-field coach. So we're really excited about his arrival, which will be early January. Congratulations. So, Mike, I have my goal for next year is twofold. One is to get reelected, and two is to be cancer-free. And that will be a pretty good year. And then my bucket list, if I have the honor of serving another four years, is
 is to work with the council to find a final solution for a final resolution for the Veterans Memorial Coliseum. There's a happy ending there someday, but I think it's within our reach.
 is to see the day when NHL comes to Portland, because I'm told that our basketball arena is actually a better hockey arena than basketball arena, and the city would benefit greatly if we had both. I'd also like to see the NCAA host their men's and women's soccer championships here. My question to you is, what's the biggest obstacle that you foresee in the next four years of moving to grass and having the best...
 grass field in MLS. And I believe the MLS finals were played on grass, the championship game. But what's the biggest impediment to us moving to grass and having a single-purpose field? First of all, we, too, really desperately want the NCAA championship, soccer championships at Providence Park. And actually, along with the Sports Authority and University of Portland, bid on this past one when North Carolina lost it. We did not get it. And turf is...
 an impediment to that, though we're trying to overcome that. And the attendance wasn't so great at the finals, at least what I saw on TV. True, and we know it would do extremely well here. To answer your question, Nick, it's challenging hosting Portland State football and soccer in our climate on grass. So let me ask you this. If at some point Portland State...
 an urban university decided to either move away from football or found another venue. Would that make it plausible for us to think about options for having a grass field? Certainly more plausible. And one other thing, a couple other notes, Nick, on that.
 Because we have turf, we're able to hold a huge array of community events, camps, and clinics on the turf that otherwise wouldn't have a home at the stadium to do a lot of group events and company events that turf allows. So there's some advantages. We've not ever lost an event. We've had some of the biggest soccer clubs around the world play on our turf, All-Star Game in 2013, as you recall.
 And so while it's not grass and the purists like you, Nick, would obviously prefer grass,
 it has not hurt us too much. But to answer your question, if we didn't have to... And Portland State's been a great partner and tenant, but it does make it difficult to consider grass. Well, it's on my bucket list, and I know there's a cost, and I know there's other considerations, but I'm also told that Oregon makes some of the best grass, maybe the best in class for grass fields. And I'm also...
 Different kind of grass. This is a tough audience here. I'm also told...
 that there are some stadiums where they actually remove the grass as a compromise. It actually rolls out and can be rolled up and used for different purposes. But I look forward to the day where there is a field, a grass field, that is as nice as the one at Merlo Field that's used exclusively for soccer and that, in turn, you get those events that we don't get now because of the turf field and it becomes like an amazing, even more amazing venue.
 So that's just my own view. Thanks. I think I'm in the minority on this, but congratulations on the coaching hire. Tom, you had something else? I think we may have neglected to thank the city attorney's office as well, so thanks to Ken McGare and the others that helped us and the entire team. Thank you. Any questions for now? Public testimony, please, Sue. No one signed up. Come on up. One individual. The list is closed. Thanks. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again, I do like the project that I'm seeing here. One of the concerns that I do have, obviously, and it's a point that Commissioner Fritz brought up, is that I understand the flexibility of being able to sell the thorns, and I absolutely agree with that. I like the fact that Hank Paulson is doing a guarantee on this. Now, where I have a little bit of a problem here is that if it is sold...
 I didn't want to see any decrease in income. Now, what I'm saying is that I was hoping that there would be kind of an estimate of where the income might be and then do a kind of a rent guarantee upon a sale. And I would have liked to have that inserted in the language to where that could have been negotiated from the city to guarantee a certain established rent level to continue.
 And again, to Hank Paulson, I'm sure you could afford it. And my position also is that they're going to be getting a certain amount of financing through their own, what is it, JPMorgan Chase Bank. And they're going for $70 million. As you know, to stipulate a rent guarantee in this, I think, would have been very realistic due to the fact that
 They're already getting this financing to have it lined up. And again, Hank Paulson is guaranteeing this. So again, I agree with the flexibility on selling the thorns. Absolutely. I don't want to see any increase, decrease to the city of Portland. So the point of Commissioner Fritz, I think, was right on the mark. And it's a very good point. Other than that, this project looks great.
 I wanted to have a little more emphasis again. Was there going to be any additional artwork added? And I didn't see anything on the overall agreement that that was going to come into place. I enjoy some of the art currently around the property itself. Are they going to add any additional artwork throughout this facility? I did not see that. Also, on any dealings with the City of Portland on conflict of interest,
 No member, official, or employee of the City shall have any personal economic interest, direct or indirect, in this agreement, nor shall any such member, official, or employee participate in any decision relating to this agreement, which affects his or her personal interest or economic interest of any corporation, partnership, or association in which he or she is directly or indirectly involved.
 interested for purposes. Now, let me just say this. I'm going to watch on the conflict of interest on this because the City of Portland owns this property. And I'll watch very close on how this deal is handled throughout to understand there will be no conflicts of interest. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll. Thank you, Daley.
 Well, I would just like to quickly thank staff at BDS and PBOT for their extraordinary efforts to get this project permitted, specifically Kurt Kruger from PBOT and David Kuhnhausen from BDS. I. Prince.
 I know everybody worked really hard on this agreement. Thank you all for your diligence and your work on this. It's generally the case that you never get everything you want, one side or the other. So thank you for this, and congratulations on the Thorns winning their second championship. And I look forward to it. When is it March? Can it come quicker, please? Hi. Fish.
 Thank you for the presentation, Mike. Congratulations on all the success of both franchises. And thanks to our team, our A team, for putting this deal together. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you to everybody who worked hard on this, on all sides of this issue. Thank you, Tom Reinhart. I know that you've been putting a lot of time and energy into this. Mike, I know on behalf of Peregrini, you've been very, very actively involved in this. I think at the end of the day, this is a very solid deal.
 And there's no question that the asset that we're improving here can only benefit the city. So I'm very appreciative of this and very excited about the potential. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 Item 1360, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the State of Oregon, Port of Portland, and Multnomah County for a Portland Harbor fish consumption advisory outreach program. Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. We'd like to invite Annie Von Berg and our team forward. I have a few opening remarks, but I do want to put this in context, Mayor and colleagues. We are about to...
 take on a number of Superfund-related items at Council. And my hope is that we've broken a logjam, and you're going to see now a lot more work. Last week, Albert Kelly, Special Assistant to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, was here. The Mayor's Chief of Staff and I and other leaders met with him.
 Our clear message to Mr. Kelly and to Mr. Pruitt was we want to move and implement the record of decision, but we also want to make sure this is a transparent process and that everyone's at the table. And we got some very specific assurances from the EPA about how they are going to implement the ROD. Yesterday, the Department of Environmental Quality, the Governor's Office, and EPA issued a joint statement recommitting to a very robust partnership.
 DEQ and EPA are the two players. DEQ is in the water. Excuse me, EPA is in the water. DEQ is upland. They have to work together. I view the announcement yesterday as very encouraging in terms of a renewed commitment to partnership and working together.
 City of Portland in early January will come forward with seeking council support to move forward on River Mile 11, which for us is a major milestone, and will, I think, respond to what we're hearing from the community, which is they want to see us starting to take action.
 And there will be other items. So Knockwood, we may be hitting a period where we're going to see a lot more action, strong partnerships locally and at the state and federal level. And what's been critically important to the mayor and to me is a transparent process because we cannot forfeit the trust and the goodwill in the community by having deals struck behind closed doors.
 The ordinance that we are bringing today is a proposed intergovernmental agreement with the state of Portland. Excuse me, the state of Portland. We need to secede from the state, this is the country. We think very highly of ourselves here. With the city of Portland. Thank you.
 State of Oregon, the Port of Portland, and Multnomah County to establish a fish consumption advisory outreach program over the next two years. EPA would provide the data, the Oregon Health Authority would develop the advisory, and the Multnomah County Health Department would conduct local outreach. Thank you.
 The cost of the program, as Annie will explain, is about $345,000 over two years, which would be equally funded by the state, the port, and the city of Portland. The greatest risk faced by people in our community is from eating resident fish, like carp, bass, and catfish, with the risk disproportionately impacting minority communities' vulnerable populations.
 Current FISH advisories are clearly inadequate, and better coordination between government agencies is needed to educate the public. And with that, Annie, would you take it away? Great. Thank you, Commissioner FISH. Thank you, Mayor Reel. Good morning, Commissioners. I'm Annie Vonberg. I'm the program manager for the Superfund at BES.
 I'm here today with a few of our partners to introduce and request approval to enter into an intergovernmental agreement that would create, as Commissioner Fish said, a community outreach program targeted around fish advisories.
 Up here with me today is Director Jay Douglas of Multnomah County's Environmental Health Services, along with Program Manager Andrea Hamburg. We also have Jessica Hamilton, Director of Harbor Environmental Program at the Port of Portland, and Jim McKenna, Advisor of Portland Harbor to Governor Brown in the Governor's Natural Resource Office. And by the way, we should just acknowledge that Jim has been a terrific partner
 He accompanied Annie and me and others on a trip to D.C. where we met with senior folks at the EPA. He's been extremely accessible on behalf of the governor's office and is just a pleasure to work with. So thanks for being here.
 I'll just briefly go over what we're proposing today. As you all know, the Portland Harbor is approximately a 10-mile stretch of the Lower Willamette that goes from Salve Island to about the Broadway Bridge. The Superfund has reached many milestones this year, one of the largest being the final cleanup plan that was released from EPA after 17 years of analysis and study.
 And just to remind you of the magnitude of this cleanup, EPA estimates that this will be 13 years of active construction, followed by 17 years of active monitoring for a total of 30 years. And given just the sheer size of this site and the complexity, there's a good chance that that timescale will move even further than that.
 The contamination at this site is primarily at the river bottom in the sediment after decades of industrial use. EPA, through the analysis and study phase, evaluated risk to people and wildlife and determined that the greatest health risk to humans is eating resident fish in the Superpond site, like carp, bass, and catfish.
 The communities that are most impacted by this health risk, larger vulnerable communities, subsistence fishers, including Native Americans, minority communities, immigrant refugees, along with low and no income residents. Throughout a variety of outreach efforts over the last couple years, we heard loud and clear from the community that current fish advisories just aren't working and there still is confusion about what the risks are of consuming fish from the site.
 We also heard that community involvement specifically to those that are most impacted needs to be increased, and that better coordination amongst the involved government agencies to help create those clear messages and consistent messages were needed. So we look at this partnership as a first step in addressing those community concerns.
 This is just a quick illustration of what typically the process looks like for developing a fish advisory in a Superfund site. EPA, through the analysis phase, provides the data. The state health authority then develops the advisory. And then the local health authority, in this case Multnomah County Health Department, then takes the lead in outreach to the public.
 And it's important to note, beyond just the Superfund advisories, Oregon Health Authority is scheduled to be releasing statewide fish advisories early this next year. So this adds to the timeliness of this effort to address any potential confusion with statewide advisories and advisories specific to the Superfund by creating those common messages and coordination between the government agencies.
 This next slide here shows the proposed partnership, which is the State of Oregon, the Port of Portland, and the City of Portland creating the funds to create the program. Multnomah County Health Department would then administer and design the program. And then the EPA and the Oregon Health Authority would guide the program by actually creating the content of those advisories.
 It's worth noting that the funding parties here will not play a role in creating the content of those advisories, but rather contribute to the tools to get the information out to the public. And I'll hand it over to Ms. Hamburg to go over the main components of Multnomah County for this program and what their role will be in the outreach. Thank you, Annie, and thank you, Commissioners. Thank you, Mayor.
 So the health department's main function is to promote healthy choices and to protect the health of county residents to promote health and health equity. And as Commissioner Fish said and Annie echoed, our largest concern during this cleanup effort is the consumption of fish from the cleanup site. And we are concerned that traditional communication strategies won't be effective.
 We will spend this two-year project period working with community partners and other agency partners to develop
 really are the best evidence-based communication strategies that are culturally and community specific. We will work with our community partners to identify the best messages and also the best messengers. We'll do that through small grants and other partnerships yet to be defined. At the end of the project period, we will have a group of materials that can be relied on during the cleanup project and also strong relationships to support that communication effort.
 Thank you. And then moving on to the budget and timeline, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, this is a two-year effort to establish the program and start the outreach. This is to fill a gap until EPA creates a long-term funding plan for this. The program cost is $345,000. It will be split equally amongst the three parties, totaling $115,000 each over the course of two years.
 So recruitment for the dedicated health educator with Multnomah County is slated to start in mid-January, pending the approval of this IG-8. So with that, I invite any questions you may have, and thank you for your time today. Very good. Is that the end of your presentation? Yes. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? We had two people sign up, Sheldra Wilkins and Cassie Cohen. Thank you for your presentation. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I have decided really that we in Portland are surrounded by two rivers, the Willamette River and the Columbia River. And I'm a strong supporter right now of the Columbia River. It has major hydroelectric dams. I just talked to Pub yesterday about the fact that I see no problem with drinking Columbia River well water.
 In May 2015, there was a big three-hour radon chanting here, and they had to shut down City Hall. However, radon in your house, or whether it's liquefied in the wells, or is there radon? Do fish that swim in the Columbia River ingest radon? Maybe you shouldn't drink fish from the Columbia River, or even the Willamette River. Maybe the Willamette River has natural radon in it.
 Maybe your body can take natural rain. I like to ask these questions, but I feel that in World War II there was just, and even subsequently, too much industrial activity in the Willamette River. And I would certainly rather drink the Columbia River water than ever even try to drink water from the Willamette River. And you're a very brave mayor for trying to swim across the Willamette River. Okay. And my daughter said, I hope you didn't drink any of the water. And
 She's 20. I wish he would come today, but she's kind of shy. But anyway, I'm a strong believer. I like the Gresham-Mount Hood Community College area, the dance on the Columbia. And maybe someday that kind of energy can be used to clean up the Willamette River, but I am Columbia River-based. I want to say one final thing. I respect Mark Hatfield. He was a governor-senator.
 And in his book, Against the Grain, in the year 2000, he has a picture of him from the Vista View, Columbia River thing, you know, in the background. Not the Willamette River, where actually he was a governor. He went to Willamette University. He started in Salem, was a governor, but he considers himself, I think, Mark Hatfield, as a federal senator bridging...
 the dams, and the Columbia River. And that's why he wanted to make a statement that he, too, at the end of his life, as an Oregon politician, a great Oregon politician, was centered around the Columbia River. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Hi, my name is Cassie Cohen. I'm the coordinator of the Portland Harbor Community Coalition. Thank you. I am...
 you know, surprised that I don't have other folks with me, although not so much because most of the folks working on Portland Harbor that are community members are volunteers. So they're stretched. And I do want to, so I'm here primarily to express my support, and I believe this intergovernmental agreement is definitely in alignment with what our coalition's goals are.
 to continue to engage all communities, especially those most disproportionately impacted by Portland Harbor pollution, in the cleanup process and beyond. As we heard, it will take 30 years, including monitoring. And the fish...
 So we're excited about this new pilot to begin to coordinate intergovernmental efforts and that the county is taking the lead on.
 Even though I'm immersed in this subject matter, just two days ago I became aware for the first time ever that cancer is not considered as part of the health advisory for the state of Oregon for fish consumption.
 To me, that's unbelievable. So in doing a little bit of reading of other resources, well, I can even send some follow-up data. Yes, could you send that specifically? Absolutely. It's Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine was the sort of alternate name.
 that I just began to read up on, which argues the opposite, that cancer should be considered as part of communicating to the public the risks and that there are alternative proteins these days that can be considered to integrate for people's health and their diets.
 But the point being here is that our communities are being burdened
 chronically around the consumption of fish here. And it's, as you heard from our guests earlier, it's the most vulnerable communities, and we're hearing these stories constantly, and it's not only folks living right near the river. Folks are traveling. I have family that travel from Hubbard, Oregon,
 to fish in Portland Harbor and other rivers as well. So we hope to continue to work with you to have transparency not only for government stakeholders, but also for community stakeholders, and to kind of co-design what that transparency can look like so community stakeholders can continue to be at the decision-making table.
 can be more, actually more integrated to the decision making and the design of what this health advisory and sort of outreach and education looks like long term with EPA as well.
 Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a comment? Thank you, Mr. Cohen, for your long-time leadership on this. And I'm really encouraged to hear that you support the approach. I would assume that you and your coalition will be involved. What are the health risks if not cancer? What are we supposed to talk about?
 Well, that's a good question. And I think we're still waiting to hear the outcome of what the fish advisory will be from Oregon Health Authority and how that, you know, I think hypothetically speaking, what if the health advisory that is released at the new year is different from what EPA's health advisory is and what if it reduces...
 the advisory level so it allows for people to be exposed more and what does that do to the context given the politics of EPA right now and the
 you know, the opportunity for some of the responsible parties to, you know, to budge on their liability or their scope of responsibility for cleanup. Okay. Well, I was certainly very glad to see in the ordinance that it's the Montmorency County Health Department who's going to be spearheading this. Absolutely. So that gives me a lot more confidence that we can do the right thing here. You mentioned that most of the people in your coalition are volunteers. Are you a paid staff person?
 you know i i have temporary p you know and
 committed funds. We have temporary committed funds, but we are looking to our government partners, hopefully, to talk about options for Portland Harbor Community Coalition to be sponsored to continue our work long term. You have certainly earned the right to be at the table and I appreciate all the volunteer time, regardless of the small amount of temporary funding. I hope that we can find a way so that
 Your coalition and others are institutionalized into this process. Thank you. We don't expect people to do it after work and on weekends. Thank you very much. Thank you. We appreciate that. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. My main concern, again, is making sure that we monitor the treaties very closely and
 and take care of the Native Americans on this issue. And if compensation is needed at this time because they don't feel the fish are appropriate to put on an open market or be utilized in any way, we need to compensate them for that.
 Another recommendation of mine is that all boaters that license their boats should be given a pamphlet and sign it that they're aware of the situation of where the Superfund site is. We need to make it very clear to people that it is not recommended to eat any fish in the Superfund site. And let me say this again to you. I have talked to various people from the EPA, and I asked them the question, okay,
 Should I ever swim where the Superfund site is? And in the room they began to laugh, which I'm very familiar with that at council meetings.
 And I looked back at them and I said, well why are you laughing at me? And they said, are you kidding me to ask such a foolish question to swim in a Superfund site? And I said, I already knew your answer before you went to say it, so I do agree with you. Some other people, for whatever reason, think it's appropriate to swim. So anyway, I'm in agreement with the EPA. Again, I'm in total disagreement with Governor Brown. I have a complete issue with you.
 this has been stalled out for so many years I'm going to point the finger at you Governor Brown and say you know what on this agreement here which I do agree with we have the port always involved in my mind the port should be doing a maintenance dredging of the port
 Every year, instead of just talking about it in the last 17 years, which I'm appalled at, it could easily be set up, funds could come in from certain property owners to fund the dredge, to fund the maintenance dredging, and I can assure you, EPA would agree with that. Because every year you dredge certain amount of the sediment,
 things change. If we have a high water level, things wash in, things wash out. It needs to be done consistently year after year after year and show you're getting something done instead of a lot of talk. In this analysis over 30 years, I'm a
 appalled at those numbers. And let me tell you this, go back to the treaties, listen to the Native Americans, and understand, maintenance dredging, year after year, needs to be done. Show we're doing something. Get something done. Stop your talking. Stop your stalling. And in this agreement, you even say, at the discretion, if I can meet my payment obligations. Well, guess what? You haven't met any obligation on this cleanup contract.
 so I don't think you'll even fund this. Enjoy your retirement, Governor Brown. Newbular for Governor. Thank you. Please call the roll. You daily. Fritz? Really pleased to see this, Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much for your work on this, and I'm reminded that Commissioner Novick kept asking about this as a first choice. I'm glad to see that it's not an either-or, that we need to correct the problem so that in the future we don't have to teach people not to fish anymore.
 But in the meantime, we're going to be protecting them. And so thank you very much for your work. Hi. Well, thank you for the presentation. You know, we have a really terrific team at the city led by Annie Von Berg. We have lots of bureaus involved. We have community partners that are deeply engaged that we meet with. And I think evidence of how this new relationship is working is the impact of the
 of the uproar that occurred when we were all advised the EPA was having backdoor meetings with some of the potentially responsible parties with a goal towards undermining the record decision and potentially setting us back. That had lasting consequences, not just a reversal of the approach.
 and a number of those PRPs dropping out of the process, but it prompted one of the two or three most important people in the country from Washington working on this to come out and spend a day doing fact-finding, leading, I think, to this announcement between DEQ and the EPA, which is very promising. Look, I'm the first, and everyone on this panel is the first, to criticize the EPA for a host of things they are doing or not doing under this administration.
 One bright light is that Administrator Pruitt did say that he wanted to bring a sense of urgency to the over 20 Superfund sites around the country. And in addition to making sure we bring the community along and that we get in the river and do some work and show a sense of urgency,
 The other piece of this that we put into our legislative agenda is making sure Region 10 and the federal partners have the resources they need, because if they don't, that's just going to add to more delay that we can't afford. So thank you all for your good work. I'm pleased to vote aye. Wheeler.
 Well, I very much appreciate this work, and Commissioner Fish, I appreciate in particular your passion for this subject and your continued attention to the details and continuing to work with all of our partners on this process. It is a daunting process, as you heard today, 17 years just for the...
 The cleanup phase, I think it was, 30 total, including the monitoring. So we're in this for the long haul, but this definitely helps the community to navigate some of the realities of the Superfund site. It can only be a positive. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you.
 So we cannot quite start the next... Check your phone. It's actually 10.45. Oh, that's very true. I was watching you tick down. Thank you. So we're going to do 13.61 followed up quickly by 13.79 as they're related, but we'll read them separately. And then we'll get to... I know there's a couple of gentlemen here waiting for item 13.80. We'll get to that right after. So if we could please start with 13.61.
 1361, accept the year two bond oversight committee report on the 68 million parks 2014 general obligation bond. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm very grateful ongoing to the voters for approving the Fix Our Parks bond for $68 million in 2014.
 And as part of passing that bond measure, we promised full transparency and accountability for the use of taxpayers' money to fix some of the most egregious problems in our parks. Of course, we know that there are many more maintenance activities that are needed to happen than we have the funding for. On the other hand, we do have the $68 million. So.
 So we have an independent volunteer bond committee that monitors the bond process and they ask tough questions to make sure the Parks Bureau delivers on the bond in the way that the vote is approved.
 The committee has been reporting annually to Council, as we promised we would, and our community also, regarding our performance and progress towards goals. And so please welcome with me Bonds Committee Chair Dion Jordan to provide the committee's annual report. Thank you for being here. Thank you, and good morning to the Commissioners and Mayor. Good morning. Good to see you. As stated before, my name is Dion, and I am the Committee Chair of the Portland Bond Oversight Committee.
 Portland Parks Bond Oversight Committee. I believe you have before you a copy of our annual report, therefore I will not go over it in its entirety but instead share with you a summary of the report and I hope that you now have a copy of the PowerPoint.
 As you know, this committee was charged with evaluating the bond measure efforts of Portland Parks and Recreations with three major objectives in mind. These objectives are to adhere to the language of the bond, to maintain fiscal accountability, and be transparent with the community in our efforts. So here's a quick overview of the second-year status of these objectives. The first one, adhering to the language of the bond. In other words, doing what we said we would do.
 The committee believes that deliverables were met based on the promises contained in the language of the voters' pamphlet. By the close of the second fiscal year, all 34 Phase 1 projects were underway, with eight projects complete, 19 projects on or ahead of schedule, and only seven behind schedule as of June 30th of this year. The second year also marked the establishment of Phase 2's project list.
 The second objective, maintaining fiscal accountability. The committee believes that bond dollars have been clearly and separately traced and ensured that the integrity and accuracy of financial statements were met. Portland Parks remains fiscally accountable of bond dollars with a separate program tracking system accessible to all staff and administration overhead is within 10% of the total budget.
 Budgets are on target in all categories except for the pools. Portland Parks and Recreation is confident that the bond contingency fund and program dollars will cover the cost of overrun. If you remember, the Oversights Committee's recommendation last year to Portland City Council and Portland Parks was the establishment of a contingency fund to ensure that projects were completed.
 The committee is pleased with the establishment of a $2 million contingency fund. This ensures that commitments to Portlanders will be fulfilled and improvements to safety will be equitable and also a priority. Then number three, the third objective, be transparent with the community in our efforts.
 The committee believes that Portland Parks and Recreation has acted in a way that promotes equity and participation and accountability. Portland Parks has shown that they value community input, outreach and participation by diverse members of the community have helped build trust in the $68 million program. Public input included two town halls, six neighborhood coalition sessions,
 A new Portlanders Youth Ambassadors Meeting, two Park Board Meetings, 40 public meetings, signage at 136 locations, and over 77,000 website visits to Portland Bond project sites.
 Last year, the oversight committee recommended that Portland Parks and Recreation establish metrics that illustrate the efforts and the success of those efforts. Portland Parks is working on some targeted surveying strategies as we speak. Ideally, these efforts should gauge if members of the public feel the process is open and transparent, whether they feel welcome to participate.
 Additional funds will be spent on this effort and serve as a guide of outreach efforts in the upcoming years. Because of these efforts, two new projects were added to the list of Bond Phase 2, one at Fern Hill Park to address the lead water supply removal and the other at the East Portland Community Center to address accessibility improvements.
 So in conclusion, the Oversight Bond Committee feels that Portland Parks and Recreations have completed the objectives and promises made to the voters. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Mayor, we don't usually take testimony on reports, but given that this is an oversight body, if anybody does want to have a brief comment, I would be open to that. Certainly allow it. Does anybody have any...
 Okay. Just wanted to make the opportunity available. Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Jordan, for your leadership on the committee and also your service on the Parks Board and various other challenges that we ask you to step up to, and you certainly have. Thank you very much. Thank you. Very good. I'll accept a motion to accept the report. So moved. This is where you say second, Commissioner Fish. Second. Thank you. We have a motion. I always do what I'm told. And we have a second to accept this report. Thank you for your service. Please call the roll. Udaili. Udaili.
 Thank you for the report. Aye. Chris? Well, thanks again to Dion Jordan and the other members of the Oversight Committee, Ken Richardson, Zari Santner, Jonas Calone, and Karen Loper. I'm very proud of this project. Thank you. Aye. Rich? I think if anyone wants to know what a model report looks like, annual or otherwise, I would have you look at what Parks produces, and it's just beautiful. It's beautifully laid out. It's easy to read. Thank you.
 And so congratulations, Commissioner Fritz, for communication. Also, I just want to say while Dion's here, you know, someday I'll look back on the honor that I had to be in public service. But in my bucket list.
 the day we spent with your dad honoring him when we named a community center for him had to be one of the highlights. And, you know, when you talk that old cliche about big shoes to fill, when Nike made a pair of shoes in his honor, then I think we all realized how big his feet really were. And those shoes are on display at Charles Jordan Community Center. So it's a beautiful legacy, and you as his son continues to honor that legacy with your service. So thank you. Bye.
 Wheeler. Well, I'd like to thank everybody for their hard efforts on this. Commissioner Fritz in particular, thank you for taking the lead on behalf of the City Council. I vote aye to the reports accepted. May I just add some thanks to Lauren McGuire and Maya Spencer as well as Mike Abate. Your work has been exemplary on all of this. And it's very wonderful now that we get to keep going to do some openings or reopenings as they all are. So thank you for your work.
 Very good. Item 1379, please. 1379, reappoint Jonathan Kalan to the Portland Parks Recreation Bond Oversight Committee for a term to expire December 31, 2020. Colleagues, today we have the pleasure of announcing a reappointment for one of the members of the Portland Parks and Recreation...
 2014 Parks Replacement Bond Oversight Committee. We have just heard the report of that committee. The Bond Oversight Committee is composed of five distinguished community members, each of whom was selected by a member of the council. In making our selections, we looked...
 for skill sets in finance, construction, community involvement, budgeting, and parks services. The Bond Oversight Committee members are serving multi-year terms. Commissioner Fritz will talk about the charge of the Oversight Committee. Well, thank you, Mayor, and thank you for your partnership and also for your adjusting the agenda items. I appreciate that.
 We are taking this opportunity to reappoint another Bond Oversight Committee member, Mr. Jonah Callan. Mr. Callan was appointed by Commissioner Novick, and Commissioner Udaly has chosen to reappoint him. So it's a three-person partnership in getting this item on the agenda. And I introduce Lauren McGuire, the Parks Development Program Manager. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fritz, and members of the Council. We're fortunate to have the five outstanding community members serving on the Bond Oversight Committee.
 And as you've said, Commissioner Fritz, we appreciate their keen insight and their active volunteer service to the community on this important endeavor to assess the performance of Parks and Recreation in executing the bond.
 Deanna Jordan, the Bond Oversight Committee Chair, who you just heard from, is currently working for Human Resources in Multnomah County, but he's nationally known as a speaker, strategist, author, and also was a Parks Board member. Ken Richardson is current superintendent of the David Douglas School District. Karen Lomper is a former longtime park staff member who served in several different capacities, including volunteer coordination, outreach, and communication manager and assistant director to Portland Parks and Recreation.
 Zeri Santner is also a member, former director of Portland Parks and Recreation, and a landscape architect who oversaw, in fact, the last 1994 parks bond. So we have a lot of experience on the committee. Jonath Colon has been working also as a member of the committee. He's former business development coordinator for the Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber, and his reappointment to the Bond Oversight Committee is the purpose of our agenda today.
 I don't think Jonathan made it, but I'll let you take it from there. Very good. Any further comments? I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. To accept the report, please call the roll. Udallie. Well, we were very happy to reappoint Jonathan. Everyone was very pleased with his service. Aye. Fritz. Well, um,
 Jonathan has provided a variety of services in bilingual, but by cultural manner demonstrated exceptional success in reaching out to Oregon's expanding underserved Latino and minority communities with the Hispanic chamber. He has stated that being a member of the parks bond oversight committee has fulfilled both personal and professional life goals. And it's provided him with an opportunity to impact community and help by being involved in significant projects that change the way we live.
 improve and protect the landscape of our city while enhancing lives with parks that are gathering places for friends and families. What we didn't note is that in all of these projects we are looking to reach out to minority contractors and other community members so that the money that is being paid by taxpayers in our community is reinvested in companies that do business in our community. And so I appreciate Jonathan's work on that regard and I'm very
 I'm pleased that Commissioner Udeli decided to reappoint him. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report is accepted. Thank you. Appreciate it. Item 1380, please. 1380. Amend contract with Alsea Geospatial to add $339,584 to upgrade the existing software interface for the electronic citation project. Okay.
 for a new total contract amount of $719,244. Colleagues, our current software and hardware are outdated, leaving us vulnerable to security issues. Our current devices are only capable of using 3G cellular service. The service provider has announced an end of availability and support for mobile 3G services by July 2019.
 The Bureau of Technology Services, Telecom Engineering and Support has requested that the Portland Police Bureau replace these devices as soon as possible. The new software is compatible with smart phones that have been deployed with all police officers.
 We believe this will allow the Bureau to decommission the current handheld devices, saving cost, support time, and increasing network security, which of course is of increasing importance. The new software will allow the Portland Police Bureau to utilize more mobile technical features, reducing the time to...
 develop an e-citation, thus allowing the officer to spend more time with the resident and reduce the amount of time the officer is required to be on the road, thus increasing officer safety as well. Today we have Captain Mike Krebs here to start us off. Captain Mike Krebs, Portland Police Bureau Traffic Division.
 I'm here today to request your support to purchase a new e-citation platform. As the mayor just said, our platform is old. It was first instituted in 2006, so it's about 11 years old. It is unpredictable and sometimes inefficient. It is, as the mayor said, a couple things. When we stop people for a traffic stop,
 We don't want to detain them any longer than we have to. I mean, it's just kind of uncomfortable. People want to get on their way. So I believe this new system will allow us to be quicker on the roadside, which will also increase officer safety. Right now, our traffic division uses the e-citation platform, and we issue about 70% of all the citations citywide for the Portland Police Bureau.
 even though we're only purchasing a small amount of these e-citation platforms, it will have a large impact on the number of people we contact and how the contact is carried out. So right now I want to turn it over to Chad Lublin. Chad is our lead from IT. He's the one who's been searching for this new platform and working with my officers to find a reasonable replacement. Chad? Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 Chad Loveland, Technology Project Manager. I wanted to just kind of go through real quick. We talked about the history. The mayor talked a little bit about the reasons why we need to do this. I want to talk a little bit about sort of the market research and kind of why we are where we're at.
 So for the past six months, we've been conducting market research. We've had about ten companies that were identified as potential vendors. However, only three of those were planning to offer their solution on a secure Apple mobile technology device. Vendor one required state approval before we could use it, and because the state's review period is uncertain and because the estimated project costs were the highest of the three, we decided to move on to the next two.
 Project and ongoing costs between vendors two and three were similar, and neither have a live solution. However, some advantages with ALSI's solution include we've had 11 years of experience with ALSI. They have a proven record of excellent support and quality software. Officers like the ease of use of the ALSI solution. The requirements for the new software could be used for the new development.
 making testing simplified. We've had two successful implementations with LC already. Ongoing support costs are known and firm, but most importantly, the time required, as Captain Krebs alluded to, the time required to write a citation was drastically less with the LC solution. So in short, LC was chosen because project and product risk, time to full implementation, and time to realize cost savings were all significantly less.
 and because citizen and officer safety has increased, we believe, with All-C's solution. Although All-C currently makes the most sense, we recognize the value of providing an equitable opportunity to all vendors. In preparation for the current contract expiration of 2021, Captain Kreds, Sergeant Barnum, and I are committed to performing another round of market research in 2020. Thank you.
 Finally, as noted in the financial impact statement, funding for this project is included in the Police Bureau's current general fund budget. We're happy to take any questions. Thanks, Chair. Very good. Any public testimony on this item, Sue? We've had two individuals sign up, Robert West and Mimi Gurman. Very good. Good morning. Do you want to go first? Good morning. My name is Mimi Gurman, and I would like to say that I find it...
 dangerous to keep giving and giving to the cops when what we know about the cops is that they're still doing racial profiling. They're pulling people over as quickly as they can to give them tickets or to arrest them if they find out that they are Hispanic. And we know this, the records are out, racial profiling from the Portland Police Department is really egregious. This isn't any guesswork.
 And yet we keep giving. I understand that this is what it is. I understand the agenda item. I just can't sit back and not speak to the racial profiling that hasn't been fixed or solved. I'd like to see a report on the change of racial profiling. I'd like to see that it's gone down. I think we all have a right to know what's been going on since that report came out. So...
 Well, I'd love to say that I don't think the cops should get anything more until we get that, that our citizens are actually protected from the police. I know that that probably won't happen, but I have to say it for the record anyway. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, my name is Robert West. I'm with Film of the Police 911. And I got some serious concerns with this. First of all, you guys just put in this new system not even two years ago, and all of a sudden they need a new system.
 And as far as racial profiling goes, last Monday I watched three traffic stops within 15 minutes of each other. As soon as they got done with one, they went and stopped another one, then they went and stopped another one. There's three blacks that they stopped. Out of the three blacks, none of them got tickets. In fact, none of them committed a traffic violation. Two of the cars were searched, and you're...
 The police are out there committing racial profiling. They're searching people's cars. If they stopped you guys for no reason and decided, well, we're going to search your car. We want you to stand up on the sidewalk. And while an officer is searching your car, one is going to pat you down. You'd be highly upset about that. You know it's a violation of your privacy. And the police are continually doing that.
 As far as getting the people their tickets or warnings or whatever, I'd like to see more enforcement on the speeders. I've watched people get tickets for making an improper right-hand turn on side streets.
 you know, oh, well, the guy's Hispanic, so we'll stop him because he's got to have a warrant somewhere. Well, he doesn't have a warrant, but we need a reason to stop him anyway, so he didn't pull all the way to the curb to make a right-hand turn. And then I see people going down Stark at 70 miles an hour. You know, I'm going 40, and I watch the dude go flying by me faster than a lot of the police officers go by me. And...
 The question is, why are we going to be continually giving police money to go after minorities? And why are we buying system after system after system? You know, if the system doesn't work, go back to writing the traffic tickets. The officer should be writing the tickets anyway because what happens is the system crashes, right?
 and you've got a bunch of new officers out there that don't know how to write tickets. You're going to have someone pulled over for a half hour, 45 minutes, while the officer's calling someone in to get some help with the tickets. This technology system works for a short period of time, and then all of a sudden, oh, we're behind in time, so we need more technology. Oh, we're behind in time, so we need more technology.
 We need to... The police need to have more technology in saving people's lives and stuff like that. There's a joke that's going around amongst us cop watchers that if the fire department and the police department were to change jobs for 24 hours, you'd have firemen chasing speeders down at 90 miles an hour down Stark, and you'd have...
 police officers for their own safety not going into a school on fire to save kids you know I mean that's yes sir hi my name is Norm Santana I don't want to echo what the other two speakers have said so far and I'd like to add that you know I'd like it if the police would you know stop harassing homeless people for you know the crime of not having a place to sleep and um
 Yeah, that's it. Thank you. Thank you for my time. All three of you for testimony. Please call the roll. Udeli. Well, I certainly share some of the concerns expressed about disparities in stops and citations and arrests. And I have said before and I'll say again that when the Bureau comes to us with an ask, I think we should be asking something for something in return. My hope is...
 In this case, that efficiency with software might mean we don't need, we might need, how do I put this? The more efficient officers can be, the less officers we may need. I vote aye. Fritz? I think it's fairly clear this technology...
 documents what's happening so to the extent that we can then get better information in regards to the concerns expressed that's a good thing and plus we do need our equipment to work and so that's the fact of the matter that it has to keep being upgraded. So thank you very much for your work.
 Wheeler. We have to replace the system. It is both antiquated and it is no longer being serviced. So the question is, what do we replace it with? This system will allow us to better track the data that people had asked about and testified in regards to today. So I support it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 1381, please. 1381, accept the 2017 Title XI Trees Trust Funds Report. Thanks, Captain. Thank you. Pass it to me.
 Commissioner Fritz, I apologise. Thank you. Sorry, I was in the clouds there for a moment. Multi-tasking is challenging. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. As Commissioner Fish will remember, we passed the Tree Code in 2011. Due to lack of funding, we were not able to implement it until January of 2015.
 The code, Title 11, the city's tree code, established two new trust funds to be administered by the city forester to support and promote the city's tree infrastructure and tree-related services to residents.
 The Code requires the status of these two funds to be reported annually to Council each year. So today I'm happy to introduce the second annual report. So note that for both this and the Parks Bond report, it could have been put on the consent agenda and invite people to read it, but I thought it was really important to have this on camera so that community members know what money is coming in and what are we doing with it.
 So Jen Cairo, the City Forester, will present. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler. So I'm Jen Cairo, the City Forester and the Division Manager for Urban Forestry, and I'll be reporting to you today on the Urban Forestry Trust Fund funds for the last fiscal year, 2017-2018.
 I'll start off with information about the two Title XI code-required trust funds. I'll give you information about the balances and expenditures into and from both of those accounts, and then I'll talk in more detail about what the expenditures were used for.
 There are two trust funds under City Code 11, Title 11. One is called the Urban Forestry Fund, and the other is called the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund. Both of these are administered by the city forester, and because they're trust funds, the balances are carried over into future fiscal years, so they're not dependent on our annual cycle. And they have different funding sources and different intended and defined uses according to code. Oh, sorry about that.
 Okay. First, the Urban Forestry Fund is generated from penalty fees from code enforcement actions regarding city or street trees. So this is a relatively limited revenue stream.
 And examples of where the penalty fee might be incurred is if a violation of city code in regards to trees is reported to urban forestry. We follow up on all of those, and we find that, indeed, there was a violation of the code. For example, someone has removed a street tree without getting the appropriate permits for that. There will be some resulting violations.
 violation fines levied, those types of funds go into this trust fund. The funds in the urban forestry fund may be used to replace, establish, and maintain city and street trees, so not private trees that have been illegally removed or otherwise damaged. Also for planting and establishing and maintenance of city and street trees. It can also be used to fund education, outreach, technical assistance, and finally, the
 forestry-related activities or programs. So the balance as of the end of fiscal year 17, so that would have been June 30, 2017, was $66,900.
 $66,989. And you can see that at the beginning of fiscal year 17, it was an $11,650 balance. So you can see that not a whole lot of revenue comes into this fund. We also expend our trust funds on a different schedule in terms of billing than we do for regular budget. So the balance you're seeing in June may not be the same balance that we have today, just so you know.
 Then we also have the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund. And the revenue for this fund is generated from the mitigation fees that are paid under certain development and non-development tree permits. And mitigation fees are a portion of the compensation for the tree that was permitted to be removed. And in some cases, another tree is planted or trees, and in other cases, payments are made. These are those payments.
 Also, penalty fees regarding private trees, so not city and street trees, those go to the other fund, but those for private trees come into the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund, and also there's the opportunity for voluntary contributions to the fund. And these funds can be used for planting trees on all sorts of property, city and private, also for purchasing conservation easements related to tree protection or acquiring land related to tree protection.
 Could I ask a question on that, please? Sure. And I think that's great. I'm really intrigued by the ability to accept voluntary contributions. How is the fund actually structured? Is it a separate 501c3, or how did you structure it? Okay. Mr. Mayor, my understanding is it's structured similar to all other routine trust funds in the city, where it is held aside from the budget cycle. It incurs some interest.
 But otherwise, it has no special classifications other than it doesn't – isn't affected by the annual cycle other than reporting. Great. Well, let me just say I'm an enthusiastic supporter of it. I think it's great because there's a lot of people out there who want to be supportive and helpful, and I'm grateful that you're creating an entity where people can do that. Great. Thank you. Okay. So in the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund, you can see here that the ending balance as of June 30th was just –
 just a little over one and a half million dollars. And you can also see at the top of the table here that beginning of the fiscal year, the balance was just under one million dollars. And recall as Commissioner Fritz said that we've just been collecting into this fund since 2015. So it's been collecting for a couple years. So I think what we learn here is there's not a rapid accumulation of a large amount of money, but of course it is significantly more than the urban forestry fund.
 I would say that's a fairly large chance of money. Well, compared to what you can do in terms of tree planting, this isn't a huge amount of money. However, this is the one dedicated funding source that Urban Forestry has for tree planting. So we're very happy to have it, and hopefully, as the mayor indicated, maybe at some point we'll get some voluntary contributions and be able to do even bigger and better things with this. So...
 Another thing to mention about this trust fund is that according to Title 11, we have to track the income into this trust fund by watershed, and there are four watersheds or grouped watersheds identified in code, the Columbia Slough, Johnson Creek Watershed, Tryon and Fano Creek, and the Willamette Watershed. And according to the code, money brought in in each of those watersheds must be expended in the same watersheds.
 And what we have done, it's tracking dollar for dollar and expending dollar for dollar is not really feasible. So as I reported last year to council, what we've come up with is a three-year approach to this where we take every three years what are the amounts coming into each of those watersheds, and then we expend based on the amounts that have come into those watersheds. And we adjust that on an approximately three-year cycle. Okay.
 Why have we spent so much less than we've bought in? Good question, Commissioner Fritz. We've been holding back, being very conservative with expenditures from this fund because we wanted to have a plan, a robust plan that is informed by a lot of stakeholder and community input, specifically communities that are communities of color, immigrant, refugee communities, and those that are underserved by tree services in the city. And so a
 Some of the expenditure here has gone to a project that we have partnered with Portland State University on. We call it the Citywide Tree Planting Strategy. And we're in the final stages of wrapping that up. And the product will be a plan by which we can most effectively and impactfully use these trust funds going forward. So we're really excited about that project and we'll be happy to see what the results are and bring them back to you.
 And I'll just highlight for everybody that we do need to return to the discussion of do we want to keep doing the allocation per watershed because the money coming in is not necessarily in the places where trees are most needed. So that is but one of many questions to be answered in the future. Oops. Okay. Okay.
 I'm sorry, I appear to be missing a slide, so I'll tell you about this on the next slide. So, correct.
 Correction. We're fine. Okay. So specifically, the funds that were expended from the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund include these areas. First, in the past fiscal year, we planted over 2,000 trees, primarily on parks properties, both in developed parks and in natural areas and hybrid parks. And also, we planted trees on school properties across the city. We work with five different districts at this point.
 on a program that we call Learning Landscapes.
 And Learning Landscapes is specifically aimed for increasing canopy with our partner schools, so planting more trees there, and engaging kids at the school in planting the trees, learning about trees and the services they provide to the public. And so that's a low number, 61 trees. However, when we did that, we had 556 students participating and 128 volunteers. So there's actually a lot more impact than the 61 trees themselves indicate.
 The funds have also been used for watering and establishment care. So when new trees are planted, in order for them to survive our dry and increasingly hot summers, we have to at least water them for two or three years and do some other basic care. And also, as I mentioned and Commissioner Fritz asked about, we've also used some of those funds for developing the tree planting strategy with PSU.
 And the pictures here you're seeing on the top left, that's at Vernon, I'm sorry, Palbutte Restoration Planting. And the one on the upper right is one of the tree planting strategy focus groups. We had five different focus groups with communities of color. We also had a community advisory committee that worked with us on developing the plan. And the one on the lower right is Woodlawn Elementary School Kids Planting Trees and Learning About Them.
 So this is Ladd's edition a long time ago looking very different and today
 from a different direction, it looks more like that. And this is a great illustration of how the city's changed, but also how trees have become an integral part of the city, essential infrastructure, and it also helps us understand the services that they provide to residents, and they're a major part of our identity now. And we have this exciting new opportunity with our trust funds to be able to
 really expand where the canopy exists across the city, especially in places where there are underserved communities, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned. And that is a concern we have with the watershed requirement in the tree planting and preservation fund expenditures. And that concludes my report. If anyone has any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Colleagues?
 Very good. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Please call the roll. Thank you for the report. Aye. You daily. Fritz. Thank you to Jane Carrow, the City Forester, and your team. There's a lot of work being done. We're just getting into the winter season where there's going to be a lot of emergency tree care projects.
 So the healthy trust and balances and then there's the challenge of making sure that they are expended appropriately. So thank you for making this very clear.
 It seems like hardly a day goes past that somebody in the community doesn't email all five members of the council to express a concern about the way the tree code is working out or not working out, in their opinion. So there are multiple issues within it. I appreciate the council having agreed to support the street tree task force work and the right-of-way project with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. After that is done, I...
 I know we'll continue to get calls for doing updates, great and small, and so I hope that there will be continued willingness to do that. Hi. Fish. Yeah, nice job. Good report. And since you highlighted a policy question about investing in watersheds, and since I think that falls within my jurisdiction, I look forward at some point to having that conversation. Great. Thank you.
 Wheeler. It's a great report. Thank you. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you, counsel. Next item, please, Sue. Item 1382, authorized settlement in the sum of $10 million in the Anderson et al. v. City of Portland lawsuit in regards to certain expenditures from the water and sewer funds. Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish.
 uh... mary colleagues we've invited uh... senior attorney care and working energy financial officer can rust to come this morning comprehensive briefing on the matter for us to answer your questions will take it from there so interviews karen also just say is spent
 We've spent a lot of time on this particular issue. It has been an absolute pleasure working at the city attorney's office, and in particular to be guided as skillfully as we have been by Karen. So welcome. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Karen Moynihan, and I'm the senior deputy city attorney assigned to advise the city on matters related to the Portland Water Bureau.
 I'm here today to provide you with the information that you need to decide whether to adopt the ordinance that authorizes the settlement of the Anderson v. City of Portland litigation, otherwise known as the ratepayer lawsuit. I will begin by explaining to you how this lawsuit arose and the legal issues that were brought before the court.
 Next, I will walk you through the legal proceedings in Multnomah County Circuit Court that culminated in the judge's June 30, 2017 ruling. Finally, I will walk you through the nuts and bolts of the settlement agreement that is before you today, and I will explain to you why the city attorney's office and the chief financial officer recommend that you approve this settlement.
 In December of 2011, three ratepayers and a ratepayer organization sued the city, claiming that city council had improperly spent water and sewer funds on 26 programs or activities that were alleged to be unrelated to the provision of water and sewer services.
 Their challenges to the Water Bureau expenditures included the bull run cabins and house, operation of the decorative fountains, assistance to the residents of New Orleans in the wake of Hurricane Katrina under a mutual aid agreement, and construction of Powell Butte amenities required by the 2003 Conditional Use Master Plan. Also, upgrades to Dodge Park and basic amenities at city-owned water tank sites or hydro parks.
 Most of the challenged Water Bureau expenditures were first incurred between 2003 and 2005. Plaintiffs also challenged expenditures made by the Bureau of Environmental Services, such as for land acquisitions to assist in stormwater control, invasive species control, and most significantly, for costs related to the city's investigation of the Portland Harbor Superfund site.
 The City Attorney's Office initially estimated the value of all the challenged expenditures to exceed $120 million, nearly half of which was attributable to the Portland Harbor Superfund site. The legal issue before Judge Stephen Bouchon of the Multnomah County Circuit Court was whether the Portland City Charter authorized Council's decisions to spend ratepayer funds on the challenged activities and programs.
 In a threshold decision of March 2014, Judge Bouchon ruled that to be authorized by the city charter, an expenditure had to be reasonably related to the provision of water and sewer services. The city, of course, agrees with that portion of the decision.
 However, in the same opinion, the judge also ruled on what is referred to as the standard of review, deciding that it's the court and not city council that makes determination as to whether an expenditure is reasonably related to the provision of water and sewer services.
 Now, that standard is problematic for the city because it's city council that sits as the decision maker regarding how ratepayer funds will be expended, not the court. Council must have the ability and the confidence to review a proposed expenditure, such as the proposed filtration plant, and decide whether it is a sound and logical investment of ratepayer funds. Okay.
 Therefore, the city's position regarding the standard of review is that the court has the jurisdiction to review an expenditure rate payer funds to determine whether city council has abused its discretion, but not to make its own determination as to whether the expenditure was reasonably related to the provision of water and sewer services. That's council's job, not the court's.
 Between 2014 and 2016, the court issued numerous opinions regarding the challenged expenditures, and the parties came to agreements regarding others. Ultimately, the court ruled in the city's favor on all but seven challenged expenditures, public campaign financing, Portland Luz, Hurricane Katrina aid, Dodge Park amenities, hydroparks, BES parks pass-through costs, and certain expenditures at Powell Butte.
 Significantly, the court ruled that the city's expenditure of ratepayer funds to investigate the Portland Harbor Superfund site was authorized by the city charter.
 In June 2017, after a remedy trial on the costs of the disallowed expenditures, Judge Bouchon ruled that $17 million was not authorized by the Portland City Charter and ordered the city to reimburse the ratepayer funds accordingly. A final judgment has not yet been entered at the party's request. The council is being asked today to adopt an ordinance that would authorize Mayor Wheeler to sign a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs.
 The agreement requires the City to pay Plaintiffs' Legal Counsel $3 million from general fund sources by December 29, 2017. Additionally, by September 30, 2019, the City must reimburse the Water Fund $5.5 million and the Sewer Fund $1.5 million, also from general fund sources.
 Finally, it provides that the lawsuit will be dismissed with prejudice, meaning that these plaintiffs cannot bring these claims back again before the court in the future. The City Attorney's Office recommends that Council adopt this ordinance and approve the settlement agreement. We think that it is a good, fair settlement for several reasons. First, it reduces the total award from $17 million to $10 million.
 Second, it dismisses the case without a final judgment, which would enshrine the judge's ruling on the standard of review.
 While another Multnomah County judge would likely look to Judge Bouchon's decision for guidance should a similar lawsuit be filed by another party, there would be no legal precedent stating that a circuit court judge and not city council gets to decide whether an expenditure of ratepayer funds is reasonably related to the provision of water and sewer services.
 Third, this settlement brings finality. An appeal presents risks to both the plaintiffs and the city. Additionally, on appeal, the $17 million judgment would be subject to the 9% statutory interest rate per annum, greatly increasing the city's potential liability. I'd like to address a final matter that is surely weighing on your minds, the payment of attorney fees to the Davis-Wright-Tremaine law firm.
 The City Attorney's Office recommends the payment of $3 million in attorney's fees because it is consistent with standard attorney fee awards.
 In most contingency or class action lawsuits, where attorneys litigate a matter at substantial risk to their law firm's finances, attorneys recoup at least one-third of the court's award. Therefore, a $3 million fee award on a $10 million settlement is entirely consistent with, if not slightly less than, a standard contingency fee award.
 Additionally, this lawsuit was filed as a common fund lawsuit. Under the common fund doctrine, an attorney who brings a case that results in the payment of funds to benefit members of the public who are not paying for the attorney's services is entitled to recoup his or her fees from the award. In this instance, the court awarded $17 million as unauthorized expenditures to be reimbursed to the water and sewer funds.
 We are confident that plaintiff's attorneys would have been awarded at least this amount in fees out of the $17 million award had this matter remained before the circuit court. Therefore, the city attorney's office recommends that you authorize the settlement. And now I'll turn the presentation over to Mr. Ken Rust. Karen, before you do that, I just want to, and I'll have more to say on this shortly.
 I want to thank you for the presentation. This has been a very complicated multi-year process.
 And you just boiled it down into about five minutes in a manner that people can easily understand what the decision points were and why you recommended and why your office recommends what you are recommending to the council. I think you've set a good standard. And I just want to call that out for future presentations on complex issues. This is a textbook example, in my opinion, of how to do it correctly. So thank you for that. Thank you, Mayor. Ken.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. For the record, I'm Ken Russ, the City's Chief Financial Officer and the Director of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. I've been working with the City Attorney's Office to analyze the financial impacts and risks of various settlement options, including costs and benefits of appealing the Circuit Court's decision. Based on this analysis, it is my opinion that the settlement agreement that you are considering today is prudent, cost-effective, and is in the City's best financial interest. Thank you.
 I've also been working with Andrew Scott in the City Budget Office to develop options for making the required settlement payments. By managing general fund contingency, the CBO believes that the initial $3 million payment can be made without budget disruption this fiscal year. The remaining payments to the water and sewer funds can be made in one or more installment payments by the required due date of September 30, 2019.
 The settlement agreement provides the City with sufficient flexibility to structure these payments using one-time general fund resources or borrowed funds repaid by the general fund. CBO will be developing appropriate options for your consideration during the fiscal year 2018-19 budget process. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions you have about the financial aspects of the settlement.
 I probably will have a question for the City Budget Office regarding, you just said about the one-time funds being used for this purpose. I'm hoping that we would start with 50% of the one-time.
 of the one-time funding being used for maintenance in transportation, parks and emergency management before and then so that the remainder of the money would come out to the other half of the one-time. So, I'll... Commissioner, can I address that for a second? Yes, please. It is, it would not be my, I would not support any change to the Fritz policy that we apply to unanticipated surpluses in our bumps or our budget.
 And in addition, as the CFO alluded, one of the options is to borrow from a fund, which we have done in the past. We can do inter-border.
 inter-fund borrowing at extremely favorable interest rates of under 2%, and that might be an option that the CFO recommends. But I would not support any change to our normal budget practices. And if it turns out that we really do have a down year and scarce resources are needed for other purposes, my understanding is that the CFO and the Budget Office will give us a number of options which we can consider in terms of how we meet the payments. Thank you.
 Thank you. That's helpful clarification. Very good. Public testimony. We have two people signed up, Joe Walsh and Shedrick Wilkins. And Lightney. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. You guys are so funny with this money, you know, and that's what it's like to you. It's funny money. This is a $10 million screw-up from this council.
 who voted for all this stuff, to the city attorney who has 40 lawyers that don't know what the hell they're doing because they took her to court and lost their butt at the $10 million indictment of this council. You have to borrow it. My God. It held responsible.
 Commissioner Fish, you weren't here. You're off, Mayor. You weren't here. You're off, you dally. But you were. Amanda, you were. Because I remember this. I remember us arguing this. And now you're stuck for $10 million. $3 million lawyer fees. And that's the going rate. No wonder all the lawyers are millionaires. Jesus.
 $3 million. I asked you, Mayor, for a raise six times, and you keep saying no. But you got all these millions of dollars to give to Mr. Fish. Commissioner Fish, let me ask you a question, Mr. Fish. Commissioner Fish, are the rate payers going to be reimbursed, or are you just going to use that for some other project that somebody's going to come along and say, that's illegal, you can't do that?
 This council should hang their head in shame. But I swear to God, you are so funny. You compliment the presentation of costing you $10 million. No, not costing you. It's the people out there. The people that are listening to this. Sooner or later, they're going to rise up, Mayor, and say to you, Oh, somebody's got to be held responsible. I want someone's head.
 symbolically on the table. Who did this? Who decided this stuff, Commissioner Fish? Who decided this? To do this? To use this money illegally? And that's what you did? And you sit there and you praise the presentations. You're so funny, Mayor. You make me laugh. Sometimes I'm on the bus and I think of what you say and do and I just laugh.
 I just say, my God, doesn't this guy have a brain? Thank you for your time. You're so funny. Hi, I'm Cedric Wilkins, and my thing is I feel three months ago or something there was a thing here about water. Oregon, well, people in Portland are very sensitive in this area about water.
 And I'll say it this way, that I was surprised that Scott Fernandez, who wanted to keep the reservoirs open, was against any kind of filtration system. I think this lawsuit is a way of telling Commissioner Fish not to spend a lot of money on a filtration system and just to keep the cost of the water low.
 Another thing, I was really quite surprised, but it was exciting. In 2012, the council voted to fluoridate the water, which I feel... Please don't say that. Please don't raise that issue again. Anyway, most states fluoridate the water. Practically 90% of all cities in this. I talked to a lot of people that came from California that didn't like that. Los Angeles fluoridated the water in 1990, and they came up here to live here.
 We're very sensitive about water. And all good intentions is I actually voted for flooding the water, but it was trounced. And people don't want anything added, but this is all good intentions. And all the programs that you were sued for have good intentions. But people don't want to pay for it. They want the water here cheap.
 In fact, I went to a pub yesterday, too, and found out that people want to mix water with the Columbia water, even though some people claim it has radon. But that's not the point. If you mix it with Columbia water, it'll still be cheap.
 And unfiltered. And the burden of you is to drink bottled water or whatever. And it's just the way Oregon is. They want cheap water from the Columbia River, from Bull Run, to water their gardens, and it's up to them whether it's not pure. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. The city charter says the fees Water Bureau customers pay are for water-related services.
 Very straightforward, very simple. Somebody missed big time on this, and I hate to say this to my good friends, the attorneys that control the whole fourth floor. How did you ever miss this? How did you ever allow somebody to fund the lose, to fund Dodge Park, to fund campaign typhoon, all these different things that a judge even looked at?
 And came back, you at the very least owe about $17 million. Now, again to you, John DeLorenzo, and I know you're listening, my good buddy. I have friends that went to school with you. And they respect you a lot. So let me say this to you again. Have yourself a very happy new year, my friend. And enjoy yourself because you've earned it, my friend. $3 million.
 outstanding work for improper use of funds. Here's my problem to you Mr. DiLorenzo. You want to settle this before going after the full $17 million. My question to you, and I'll ask you this since you're listening very close, how do we get E&O insurance to pay for this that the city has in place? We have to go forward. There has to be more guilt admitted. As you know in this agreement, the city is not going to admit any guilt.
 I want to have guilt admitted. I want to look at the E&O insurance. I want to have that $3 million paid to you by some insurance policy. I want to have that additional money paid to you, my good friend, at your high-level law firm to be paid with insurance funds. I do not want anything coming out of the general fund. If you truly believe...
 Mr. DiLorenzo in taking care of the people of this city, which I know you do, because I know people that know you quite well.
 then get somebody to admit guilt, focus on the E&O insurance policies, take them back into court, go for the full $17 million, and stick it to these son of a bitches who ripped us off! And I am glad to get up today, and I'm so angry that these people who think they can spend these funds improper and not go to jail, and Randy Leonard, my friend, Randy, we're coming for you!
 We're going to get you, Randy. And remember, those lose. Whenever I push that button, Randy Leonard, I think of you, you corrupt son of a bitch. Go to hell, Leonard. So, Mayor, I'm out of here. Okay. This is appalling to me. This issue has generated some passion. Can I have the city attorney come back for a second? You bet, sir. I think it would be beneficial. Karen, can you come back for a second? Okay.
 You don't have to give me the blue ticket. I'm out. I guess it press releases. I just don't know. A hundred plus million on it. Unbelievable, man. This is unbelievable. Pure corruption. Don't go after Trump. Look at these people up here who are involved. Commissioner Fish, you had a question? Karen, a number of questions were raised in the testimony, which I think is useful to give you a chance to respond. Okay.
 So one question was, when did the bulk of these claims arise? Could you just clarify that again? Certainly, Commissioner. The Water Bureau expenditures, actually all of the expenditures arose, most of them between 2003 and 2005. Some of them actually a bit earlier. Okay.
 I can just, I can, I think, stipulate for the record that no member of this body here today was serving between 2003 and 2005. That doesn't resolve any responsibility we have for addressing and resolving the problem, but I thank you for that clarification.
 Number two, you said in your opening remarks that the total value of the claims was around $120 million, and that if the plaintiffs had been successful in all of them. It's my understanding that that is premised on the fact that about half or more would have been related to Superfund. Is that correct? That's correct, Commissioner. Okay. Had this case gone on appeal –
 And I know there are issues that both the plaintiff's counsel and the city attorney's office had with this. What would have been the options for a reviewing court? Commissioner, the options would have been...
 Had we appealed, I'll just back up a little bit, had we appealed, plaintiffs indicated they also would have appealed. So both parties would have been appealing the court's standard of review. Plaintiffs had argued early on in this case and maintained the position that the standard of review should actually be that an expenditure's primary purpose must be for the provision of water and sewer services. Okay.
 To our interpretation, that means we could have spent money on a pipe, could have spent money on treatment works. But so many of the items that truly are reasonably related to the provision of water and sewer services would have been in question with that standard of review.
 Both parties would have appealed. The options would have been that Judge Bouchon's decision could have been overruled in the plaintiff's favor. I don't believe that there was a great chance of that. But in that scenario, then there would have been many, many more items that we would have been at risk for losing in that.
 Judge Bouchon's decision, if it were reversed in the city's favor, of course, we could have had, I believe, almost total vindication, if not total. But realistically, Judge Bouchon is a very well-respected jurist. He is now going to start as the chief presiding judge in Multnomah County Circuit Court starting on January 1st. A decision from Judge Bouchon that
 that it was a recent decision. It would have been a very tough battle to have that overturned by the Court of Appeals. So in summary, we believe the risk would have been that the $17 million would have been accruing per annum at 9%. Additionally...
 the attorney's fees would have increased because opposing counsel would have been litigating through the Court of Appeals process. And so just to put a bow on this, both sides had something at risk if there was an appeal, and that's what then created the context for a settlement. Absolutely. Colleagues, I will say that...
 While today's not the day to cherry-pick any part of the rulings and to argue the case, and as our attorney has noted, Judge Bushong will be the presiding judge of Multnomah County and is highly regarded. She did say in her prepared testimony that as a general matter, the city attorney believes that it's the city council's job and not a court acting as a special master to decide under the charter how we expend money.
 There was one example in all the litigation that I think illustrated that. And, again, reasonable people can agree or disagree, and I'm not re-arguing the case. But one of the claims that the judge ruled in favor of plaintiffs was a program we had, which was a mutual aid agreement with the city of New Orleans, and it was related to Katrina.
 And we have mutual aid agreements with other cities. And what happens when there's an emergency is that we agree to send some of our people to go help another city. And under that mutual aid agreement, they in turn agree that if we are in the same situation, they will send first responders to our city. It is largely funded and reimbursed by FEMA, but there's always going to be a little shortfall.
 It was the view of the city, and people can agree or disagree with this, I'm not relitigating the case, that we should have those mutual aid agreements with other cities, that if we ever have an emergency, we want to have Water Bureau professionals from other cities coming here. And we thought that the training that our employees get by being involved in those emergency situations becomes invaluable in addressing ours.
 Now, let's just say that you agree or disagree with that proposition. The point that Karen made earlier is, is that for the counsel to decide or for a judge? And that's a philosophical question underlying this case and on a number of these claims. And I think that's important context for people to think about because I suspect people will have varying opinions on that subject. Thank you, Karen. Thank you.
 That concludes our presentation. Very good. And we're going to call the roll. I'd like to suspend the rules. Commissioner Fish had requested the opportunity to go first, and I certainly support that unless anybody has any objections. Thank you. Mayor and colleagues and members of the public who are present today, I inherited both utility bureaus five and a half years ago. I was the first commissioner since Dan Saltzman to lead both of them.
 I think there's a logic behind this pairing since, after all, we send a combined water, sewer, and stormwater bill to our customers. So having one commissioner in charge of both utilities, I think, has some logic. When I took over, the Water Bureau in particular was generating significant controversy. In my first year, we witnessed a ballot measure, 26-156, that sought to strip the city of the utilities and to create an independent water district.
 We witnessed continued challenges to federal regulations like LT2 that had an impact on our historic reservoirs. And, of course, there was ongoing concerns about the use of ratepayer funds. Five and a half years later, I think it's fair to say we've made significant progress. We have new leadership at both bureaus. We've sharpened our focus on basic services and spending ratepayer dollars wisely.
 The proposed water district was defeated in May of 2014 by 72% of the vote. We worked with the community on a path forward for both Mount Tabor and the Washington Park reservoirs, embracing community-led visions. We appointed a Blue Ribbon Commission, chaired by former U.S. Attorney Dwight Holton, which led to the creation of the Portland Utility Board, a strong and independent oversight body with dedicated staff.
 We forged the first ever partnership between a city and the Oregon Citizens Utility Board, adding additional oversight. Now recently, the council made a historic decision to protect the Bull Run watershed for the next 100 years by choosing to filter our water. And just this week, the city and the Oregon Health Authority entered into a binding regulatory agreement that will give us 10 years to build that filtration facility.
 So you could say that today we close out the last chapter of the water wars. Both the city attorney and the CFO recommend that we accept the proposed settlement, which represents a fraction of the original claims asserted by the plaintiffs.
 Significantly, because this case will be dismissed with prejudice, it preserves our understanding of what the charter does and does not provide. We continue to believe that the city council, and not a judge, is best suited to make decisions about our utilities. But by accepting this settlement, we're turning the page and we're moving forward. I have a number of people I want to thank. Sonja Schmansky and Todd Lofgren, my team.
 Tracy Reeve, Karen Moynihan, and the outstanding folks who work in the city attorney's office. Ken Rust, our CFO, who played an invaluable role in assessing settlement options. Mike Stewart, Water Bureau Director, Gabe Salmer, and the many Bureau staff members who worked tirelessly throughout this process. Although some may view this settlement as anticlimactic,
 The lawsuit has had a positive effect in refocusing city leadership on the core mission of the utilities. Today, I vote aye. Udalli. Thank you for all your work on this, and thank you for calling the attorney back up to clarify some of the misinformation that was shared through public testimony. It's unfortunate that those people died.
 didn't stay here to get their questions answered or their beliefs corrected. Of course, no one's thrilled about $3 million going to attorney's fees, but it certainly could have been a lot worse. And the $7 million is going to be reinvested in our city. So I'm glad that this has come to a conclusion. After however many years it's been, I vote aye. Fritz?
 Well, congratulations and thank you, Commissioner Fish, for reaching this settlement, and more particularly for restoring the public's trust in the utility bureaus. It's been absolutely phenomenal, the turnaround. Six years ago, a hearing like this would have had both of the chambers packed and an overflowed crowd and many other angry people.
 Thanks to you, as you mentioned, the water district was defeated. Thanks also to community activist Bob Salinger, who was your partner in that campaign. And again, it's restoring the community confidence that we work together on these difficult issues. I will also note, which Commissioner Fish modestly didn't, that he was re-elected in May of 2014 with 73% of the vote.
 So some of those who testified said that people need to be held accountable. To me, that was a resounding vote of confidence from the voters in your leadership of the utility bureaus. And so I think that question is answered. By reaching this settlement, there is no record of decision. So that restores the council's authority to determine what is the appropriate use of utility rates. There were abuses in the past, no question, by people who are no longer on the council.
 but there were also legitimate policy decisions by council on appropriate use of rates, and I look forward to having those conversations in upcoming budget discussions because I think we've now gone to the other extreme, that we spend scarce general fund resources on things which are properly related to stormwater management, water quality, and provision of fresh drinking water.
 So I'm hoping to have that. I will note that one of the reasons I'm saying so much is because I was encouraged to hear that my comments when the city purchased Riverview for $11.25 million, including $6 million of ratepayer money, it was partly due to my comments at that hearing emphasising that the reason it was appropriate to use ratepayer dollars was and is because of the water quality and wildlife habitats.
 and particularly stormwater management of Riverview's 146 acres that persuaded the judge that indeed the council was within its authority and that these were properly connected to rates. And sometimes it's really difficult for people to see the connections between...
 the money that they are paying and the purposes that it's put to. And I encourage people to contact the commissioner in charge and ask those questions, because more often than not, there's a really good reason. And when there isn't, I always welcome, I know Commissioner Fish does too, when people bring things to our attention that we can address in time to take care of them. So thank you also to retired attorney Terry Thatcher, who has worked on this issue.
 very long time and I'm very grateful to his work as well as others in the city attorney's office thanks to my former staffer Patty Howard who was the guy for me with it the office of healthy working rivers and many of these expenditures and also to Tim Crayle my chief of staff I'm glad that this chapter is closed and we'll be able to start a new one I Wheeler when I took over as mayor I
 of this city, believe it or not, less than a year ago. One of the first things I did was assign bureaus to commissioners. And Commissioner Fish and I, along with other commissioners, had conversations about which bureaus he would like to take. And he had an opportunity to express his preferences. And I will tell you this. While he did not express a desire to not be
 the Commissioner of Utilities, there were other bureaus that I think he would have rather had. But I didn't assign him other bureaus. I assigned him the utility bureaus. And the reason I assigned him the utility bureaus was I knew that he was a man of integrity, unimpeachable integrity. He was somebody that the public could trust. And I knew that I, along with this council, was inheriting a huge mess in the form of this lawsuit.
 And Nick and I spent a lot of time together talking about how do we make this right. We can't go back to the early 2000s and correct some of the missteps that were made on behalf of all of us who are residents here in the city of Portland. But I felt that we had an obligation to extricate ourselves from this mess with the lowest cost.
 and the highest opportunity to the people that we represent. And Nick was the guy who I believed could get that job done amongst all of us. And he's done it.
 And so nobody's happy with the settlement. I agree with the lawyers. I think it could be worse. I think there was significant risk associated with continuing to fight this. But I have come to the conclusion, as apparently have all of my colleagues, that this is the lowest risk, lowest cost solution that gets this mess behind us.
 and will allow Commissioner Fish or his successor commissioners to do the work that needs to be done in the bureaus. And he's already begun that process, and he has already begun to rebuild that trust and reestablish the integrity that those bureaus rely on from the public that they serve. So I think this is an important day.
 And I want to thank all of the people who spent so much time and so much energy on this, particularly Commissioner Fish. I mean, nobody runs for public office so that they can sit in that seat and deal with the kind of issues that you've had to deal with on the bureaus. But you've done it to great effect and with significant success. Well, he did run for office. That was good. And so I'm glad that we are where we are today. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all.
 Could we please move to item 1386, because I know Andrew has been waiting patiently, and then we can dispose of the second readings at the end. Colleagues, I am unwell, and I am going to excuse myself now that we've done all the emergency ordinances. Happy holidays, and see you next year. Go home and get in bed. Thanks, Commissioner. Thanks for being here.
 Item 1386, assess benefited properties for street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Southeast 86th Court and Steel Street Local Improvement District. Good afternoon. How are you today, Andrew? Good afternoon, Andrea. I'll be local improvement district administrator. We did not receive. Excuse me, Mayor. I'm sorry? No.
 We had previously where we had only two people in the room. I think if we get to that point again, we don't have a quorum. Oh, Nick just walked out. We have to take a little time out. That's fine. Why don't we take a five-minute break? I apologize. Yeah, let's take a five-minute break. Thank you. Andrew, thank you for your patience. We're in recess for five minutes. Thank you. I didn't even see him walk out. Thanks. And so have we determined definitively then if we ever get to a point that there's only two people we need? What now, Andrew? What now? Oh.
 All right, we are now back in session after a brief break. Greetings. Welcome back, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I understand we have a quorum now, so I'll be very brief on this presentation. So we did not receive any objection to final assessment on the Southeast 86 in Steele LID program.
 I just wanted to quickly just show you a few pictures here of that to do so. This is a map of the area. Mayor Wheeler, we were graced with your presence at the end of February when we had a grand opening for the NAA development at 86th and Steele. This is just a map of the LID that we did here. This is what 86th Court looked like before we did the LID in Lentz. And that's what it looked like when we finished up the street work. Just work was done just prior to that grand opening.
 And then this is what the old Foster School site looked like when it was a closed school. And this is what it looked like when we had the grand opening. So that's all I have to share with you today, and I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. That was a very brief but very compelling presentation, Andrew. Yeah, that's brilliant. Thank you so much for sharing the befores and afters and, you know, putting your bow on it. It's really good. Thank you. Yeah, it's really fabulous to see how this process –
 improve the area, obviously. Any public testimony on this item? Please call the roll. I'm sorry, this is a I scribbled right over where the little star is. This is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. And then we have a number of second readings. 1383, please.
 1383, authorize a competitive solicitation for price agreements for construction services at Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Trihant Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, and associated pump stations for an estimated $6 million. So this is a second reading. This, along with some of the others we'll be voting on in a minute, have already been presented. There has been public testimony. We are now calling the roll on the second reading.
 Fritz. This is 1383. 1383. Aye. Fish. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 1384. 1384, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of Montevilla North Sewer Rehabilitation Project. This is also a second reading. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. As I mentioned last week, it's my intention and...
 early February before we start the work, which is going to be very disruptive to the Montevilla community, that we hold another little forum maybe at the Bipartisan Cafe so people can learn more about the work and the staging of the work. And we found that to be successful in other projects we've done. Hi. Hi.
 Wheeler. Yeah, that's a good suggestion, and this is not a commercial advertisement, but I happen to think they have the best pie in town. So that's a great idea. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 1385. 1385, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of Montebello South Sewer Rehabilitation Project for an estimated cost of $4 million. This is the second reading. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Bish. Mayor, not only do they have the best pie, but inexplicably they have the best bagel and lox.
 But recently they were actually closed, and so I went to the Village Inn, which for those of us who have to pick up a pie and places are closed because of holiday hours, the Village Inn has really great pies. Let me throw that out there.
 Wheeler. Some of the best hamburgers in town are actually the country cat down the street. Very good. And I also like the appetizers at the observatory. I vote aye. Happy holidays, everybody. Without further ado, we are adjourned. Thank you.