Okay, we'll give them another minute, folks. Hang on. Good morning, Dan. Good morning. How are you? There he is. Good morning, Steve. All right. Thanks.
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the December 21st meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. We have our regular council agenda, including communications from the public and time certain and council business. But before that, we have a special order of business, which is a proclamation about –
 an amazing organization in our city and who we are as a city, which is, of course, being track town. And having the experience this year of having the World Indoor Track and Field Championships here has been one of the highlights of the year for me and for a lot of people. It was just amazing. And our community came together and put that event on. It put Portland on the world stage. There was amazing competition, and they were even gutsy enough to have the –
 medals ceremonies in Pioneer Courthouse Square in March, and they pulled it off. It didn't start raining until about 30 minutes after the last medals presentation. So apparently even God was on the side of this event because to not have rain for that long in Portland for outdoor ceremonies was quite an accomplishment. So I have a proclamation, and we have some folks that are here to talk about this organization, namely, of course, the Bowerman Track Club.
 Whereas Portland has a national reputation for world class and community running, from Olympic and world track and field cross-country competition to community trail and road racing. And whereas in this rich environment, the Bowerman Track Club, formerly the Bowerman Athletic Club, was founded in the fall of 2002 as a grassroots running club.
 Today, the Bowerman Track Club has grown to include many world-class and Olympic athletes, masters, meaning age 40 and above, and youth runners, all joined in the same organization. And whereas the Bowerman Track Club draws the best athletes from around the country,
 but by including the local youth under the same team umbrella organization. The professionals and masters runners inspire and mentor young Portlanders. And whereas each year the United States track and field holds a national masters club cross-country running championship to determine the top running club in the country, and whereas facing top competition from substantially larger clubs across the nation, including the legendary Boston Athletic Association,
 the storied Atlanta Track Club, and others, the Bowerman Masters attained a rare three-peat advantage
 that is the third time, National Masters Club Championship. And whereas with a team that included Greg Mitchell, John Howell, Arloon Baumann, Oscar Baumann, Joshua Gordon, our own Matthew Farley, and Oren Schumacher, among others, the Bowerman Track Club won the USATF National Club Cross-Country Championships in the following years and locations, 2014 in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
 in 2015 in San Francisco, and in 2016 in Tallahassee. The Bowerman Track Club won all three of those. Whereas in each of these three years, the prize money won by the Bowerman Masters team has been generously donated to the Bowerman Track Club Youth Program, thereby continuing support for our community. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses,
 to hereby proclaim December 21, 2016 to be a day of recognition for the Bowerman Track Club in Portland in recognition of their positive impact on the city, particularly the outstanding accomplishments of the Masters team, and encourage all residents to observe this day and maybe go for a run. Let's hear it for the Bowerman team. Thank you.
 So we have three people here that we'd like to just briefly bring up and tell us a little more about this. Chris Cook, who's the youth head coach. Jerry Schumacher, who's the head coach. And our own Matthew Farley, city attorney and member of the club. Good morning. Come on up. Please. So how did you pull this off, winning three times in a row? That's pretty impressive. Well, I'm...
 We do have some amazing runners here in Portland. And just in terms of the Masters, the Masters is really just a nice way of saying the old guys. And so we still love it and still enjoy the competition. But I think the...
 The larger focus is the elites and the youth in the track club, and that's why I asked Chris Cook to just say a few words. Good morning. Morning. Yeah. Well, I think the proclamation was very good in that I think it covered that, that the club offers to span kind of a wide range of...
 from youth all the way to masters with sort of adults and pro athletes in the middle there. That was when we set up the club, that was our goal, was to kind of cater to people that wanted to be competitive about running, but at any different level. It didn't matter if they were fast or slow, if they wanted to be competitive, we wanted to give them a club and a place to have other people to run with and train with and expert coaches.
 So when we started out the club, it was with the Masters and with the youth and it sort of gradually built over the last 10 or 12 years. And so I think it's been really exciting especially the last couple of years with the success of the Masters team but the success at different age groups as well. Last year we were national champions in 11-12 boys.
 as well as the Masters. And then the year before that, we were national champions in 13-14 girls. So we've done it at many different ages. On an individual basis, like last year, for example, we have little honor peers somewhere in the back. Honor, you're around. Can you stand up and give us a wave?
 Where's Anna? She's hiding in the back. She's right over there. Hey, Anna. She took second place at nationals last year as an eight-year-old. Wow. Last year, we had a national champion as a 60-year-old. Doug Wynn, I think Doug's here. Doug, are you here? Doug's right there. Yes, good morning. Yes, I'm here. And then this year, we had, obviously, a silver medal at the Olympics from one of our professional runners, Evan Yeager. I think Evan's here as well. Yeah. Right over there. Congratulations. Congratulations.
 So I think that's pleasing for me, having started the club and seen it grow, is to see that success at kind of every level and every age group. And what's been really exciting the last couple of years is a lot of the professional athletes have actually been coming out and doing the coaching with the kids. So I think that's meant that that kids program is probably the premier in the nation in terms of the level of coaching that the kids are getting because they're getting these national champions and Olympians involved.
 as their coaches, so it's sort of hard to beat that. So thanks for inviting us along. We're excited to have this day of recognition, and we're excited to see the club continue to grow and support people of all ages in the Portland area. That's great. Well, you know, Phil Knight and Bill Bowerman have touched this community in lots of ways. Obviously, we have a world-class medical institution growing in our city because of the Knights' generosity. Thank you.
 and then the ability for Vin LaNana and the others to put the World Indoor Track and Field event together, my chief of staff, Gail Shibley, and he made the case for that. And it really was the community support as well as the deep tradition of running here that
 that caused Portland to get that opportunity. So I certainly appreciated and enjoyed that. Well, we'd love to get the athletes and all of your members up here for a photo with people that are, in our case, better at running for office than running per se. But we'd love to take a photo with you. Thank you for being here today. Come on up, please. Let's bring everybody up. Yeah, everybody coming up. Hey, exactly. How do you want to do it? All right, I'm up front.
 Thank you. Good morning. Thank you. Pretty good. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. That's great. Some impressive athletes. Thank you all for being here this morning. Thank you.
 Okay, well, we'll get started on our regular calendar. Before we take up communications, let's check on the consent agenda. I believe we have one item that's being pulled from consent to regular, Rachel. Is that right? Correct, 1429. 14 which? 1429. 1429 is going to regular. Any others? Okay. So then let's take 1419, please.
 Request of Charles Bridgecrane Johnson to address counsel regarding Bridgecrane, the police contract, enhanced co-op and CRC, DAPO solidarity with Standing Rock, and Stop Jordan Cove. Good morning. Good morning. In abiding commissioners who remain incumbents and outgoing personnel,
 I know it's on the future agenda. We'll be talking about whether some staff for departing personnel should be covered with a month of health insurance. And it's a holiday spirit. I'm in favor, even though it's being pulled from consent. So on my item, before we get to the messiness of going up to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, it seems that the people that we've expressed solidarity with, the –
 Oseti Sakamon, the Sioux people in North Dakota. While they're experiencing severe weather, the Army Corps of Engineers has, for now, taken their side until the country gets a new commander-in-chief who's invested, who's making Rick abolish the Energy Department, Perry, Secretary of Energy, if we can't work with Mr. Merkley and Mr. Wyden to build a coalition to stop such insanity.
 Unfortunately, the insanity is not fully localized in Washington, D.C., in Trump Tower in New York. We have it here, too, when a very outspoken activist who's been arrested in this chamber many times talks about the city attorney, assistant city attorney, who used to work in the administration or alongside people working with President Aristide of Haiti
 when he has a very verbal expression in federal court, federal court where the United States of America versus the city of Portland processes its settlement, we think that we need to tar everything with the racism brush when we know that a large number of our African-American neighbors, the black people, the people that we need to tell more often, black lives matter, are not...
 very persuaded by the way we try and improve, or say we're trying to improve our police department. There's an idea now that the hardworking volunteers that have stayed with the Community Oversight Advisory Board should be phased away. In that motion or suggestion to the court, there's some talk about
 Not having them covered by Oregon public meeting laws, I think there's plus and minus to that. It's not that they'll hopefully become a secretive behind-closed-doors body, but that they'll be able to better interface with the public without being labeled public officials, because they're certainly not receiving $100,000 plus a year like all the people on the other side of this table. But we seem to be moving in the same direction as the Trump administration,
 away from vigorous, robust public debate and
 dropping names and labels on our enemies or people who are taking opposing positions. And I hope that we'll move away from that. Thanks very much. I have nine seconds left, actually. So I'll say it again. You're counting up, not down. Black Lives Matter. I see my negative sign's gone. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you. 1420, please. Request of Michael Withey to address council regarding homelessness. Good morning. Come on up.
 This is actually more – Michael Withey, sorry, micro-community concepts. This is more about – you want to switch it? This is more about the individual shelter unit clusters, the tiny house communities that we're trying to produce here in Portland. So over the past three years, I've been invited to panel, present, and lecture on the tiny house movement and its many facets. So I've been – let's say Georgia Alliance to End Homelessness in Savannah –
 Many, many. You have them listed there. So the tiny house movement is basically five different sections. So there's the tiny house movement, which is on wheels. We see them around Portland. They're constructed well. Them are what we call tiny houses. We have accessory dwelling units, which are built in backyards. They can also be converted to garages and homes.
 and basements. We have intentional communities, which sometimes are cob homes, but they're usually very small dwellings here in Portland. So intentional communities are basically either for religious or agricultural reasons or just living off-grid. So there's also the individual shelter units and clusters. That's what this is about today. So I've studied over the last few years some successful examples of
 and some unsuccessful examples around the country. And so what I put together is just sort of what these clusters are supposed to be and what they're not supposed to be.
 We are a national movement. We're probably in about 15 cities now where we're using these tiny houses without electricity, without plumbing. So we have a temporary solution to the lack of shelter space in the city. These are mobile homes.
 So all of these, whether they're built on wheels or whether they're built to be picked up with a forklift and put on the back of a flatbed, are easily moved around. So you could have a lease for six months and move them to the next place. The individual shelters are not permanent housing. They should have six-month increments where people can stay if they're working with the caseworkers and moving forward.
 They should be administered by outside sources, not the people living inside of the community. It's good to have them manage the community, but not to administer and to write the rules. It's not a place to be complacent. People need to volunteer. They need to participate not only in that small community, but in the community surrounding them. So that's about it. Well, thank you both. I just want to thank you. We...
 I was able to participate in that design charrette that you and others were involved in with a bunch of young architects and activists and houseless folks and people from Portland State. And then they built, I think many of us got to see, I did, the prototypes of all those designs and displayed them out in a park block. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your help with that.
 for a week or so, and now you're working with Ben Morrow to find a location for those that I think are going to house 14 women that are now living outside. That's right. So talk about taking it from idea to reality. So I appreciate your work and a lot of people's work on doing just that, and this tiny house idea is an important ingredient in what we're trying to do as a city, so thank you. Right, and we thank you for heading that up. Thank you. It's going to make a difference. Thank you, Michael.
 Okay, let us take the consent calendar again minus one item that 1429 that will move to regular any further discussion about consent calendar roll call then on the consent calendar as Amended I have one thing to say before my vote shaft. Can you dig it? Hi, okay
 The way to make the boring consent calendar non-boring, thank you, Commissioner Roving. Okay, item 1421. Accept the final annual report of the Public Safety General Obligation Bond Program Independent Citizens Committee. Okay, I think we have folks here to present on this item. The now completed body of work. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners and Mr. Mayor. My name is Kirk Hall. I'm the Chair of the...
 independent citizens committee. We're going to present a brief annual report to you. This I think is our fifth report. And it's again, it's good news for successful report. I'm joined here today by two of my fellow commissioners, Nikki, Nikki Johnson on my left and Mick Seidel on my right. And they'll each be making a short presentation as well. Just to remind you, this was a project based on a bond issue in 2010 that funded four projects, the emergency coordination center for roughly 19.8 million. That's finished.
 The Fire Station 21 for roughly $10.5 million, that's finished both successfully, and we reported those to you in the past. And the two open projects that are nearing completion are the Fire Apparatus Replacement Project for roughly $22 million. That's due to be completed by December 2017. And the Public Safety Emergency Radio System Project of roughly $50 million, maybe the most complex project. That also is slated to be completed soon.
 roughly December 2017. So this may be actually the last in-person annual report that you get from this committee. I'm next going to introduce Mick Seidel or ask Mick to briefly go over just a few details about what the bond was and what the ICC does. I think the council is probably familiar with the background, but to remind you, there was a $72 million general obligation bond issued in January of 2011.
 As Kirk indicated, it was generally around emergency and fire protection issues. The bond issue had embedded in it the Citizens Committee oversight.
 I was fortunate about three or four years ago, Commissioner Fish asked me to be on the committee. And I'll say again this year what I've said I think the last two years, which is that it's really been a pleasure to do this. And it's something that, unfortunately, more citizens in the city don't have an opportunity to see the accountability and the way things really do work well in the city today.
 So it's been a pleasure for me to do that and work with my fellow committee members. I think that the committee has been successful in doing what our mission was, and we are winding down the process. So, again, it's been a pleasure, and I think that the council should be very confident in the work that's been done.
 Thank you. Now I'm going to ask Committee Member Nikki Johnson to read our ICC assessment. And sorry, this is the most important part of what we do, so I've asked her to read it all. It's only about half a page. Yes. We'll try not to make this too boring. So this is the assessment of the Independent Citizens Committee. As previously noted, the ICC held quarterly meetings with city staff who were responsible for each project funded by the Public Safety GeoBond.
 ICC members were to review the progress of each project. In addition, each project received guidance and input from project oversight committees. The members of the ICC found the information provided by city staff to be comprehensive, timely, and informative. Staff members have been responsive to ICC questions and have supplemented their regular presentations with additional information upon request.
 ICC members also provided city staff with various ideas and suggestions concerning the projects, to which city staff were responsive. The relationship between the ICC and city staff has been collaborative and productive. The ICC does not provide either a financial or performance auditing function and can only proceed with the information presented at its quarterly meetings.
 With this observation, ICC members believe they have been kept fully informed by city staff and are satisfied with the quality and presentation of information presented regarding the projects. Based on the information presented to the ICC, it appears that the projects funded by the Public Safety Geobond are consistent with the voter-approved purposes of the geobond and that expenditures to date have also been appropriate.
 Review of the multiyear projects has revealed that there were no service interruptions or major schedule upsets. Furthermore, there was significant savings to taxpayers through the frugal use of bond money. Since the initial bond sale, less bond money was raised by bond issuance than originally approved by taxpayers.
 This and the fact that city staff consistently found ways to purchase more with less led the ICC to conclude that the city has used taxpayer money wisely and responsibly. Overall, the ICC members are impressed with the focus and professionalism of the city staff responsible for executing these projects and appreciate the staff's courtesy and responsiveness.
 Thank you. And again, yes, I was really impressed with the quality of the work of all the city bureaus and the people that we met with over the years. And so I would say this is actually a successful model. If anything like this happens in the future, this is a successful model that maybe the city will want to use again. Do you have any questions of us before we yield to Aaron Beck, Marco Benetti, and Carl Larson to give you individual reports? Questions? Yes.
 Thank you. So I'll ask for Aaron Beck to give a financial report, Marco Benetti to give a report on fire apparatus progress, and Carl Larson to give a report on the radio program. Thank you very much. Good morning and come on up.
 Hello, my name is Aaron Beck, and I'm with OMF Business Operations, and I work with the project team and the oversight committee on the finances for the program. And this morning, I'm just going to give you a quick recap of the overall finances for the Geobomb program that was approved by Council and the voters back in 2010. Okay.
 If you'll turn to the spreadsheet after page four on the report, you'll see a comparison of the program's overall budgeted revenues and expenses with actual revenues and expenses through the end of last September.
 The original budget for the program was just over $101 million, and when factoring in the cost and resources for the radio system replacement and emergency coordination center projects. For example, the emergency coordination center project, for that, the GO bond program only provided $4 million of the total $19.8 million for that project.
 And this spreadsheet shows that the voters, the $72.4 million that the voters approved was the primary resource for the program.
 The current budget is $104 million, and that increase from $101 million mainly is for grants that the Apparatus Program and the Station 21 project both received and then some other resources that became available for the Station 21 project. So through September of this fiscal year, we've spent about $87.1 million in,
 One of the requirements of the council had for the program, in addition to the oversight committee, was that prior to the final debt sale, an in-depth analysis be done of the cost to complete the program to determine if any savings could actually be passed on to the taxpayers.
 And so prior to the third debt sale that we had for the program, we did that analysis and we realized that we had savings in the Station 21 project and in the radio replacement project.
 And we also had interest earnings. And so we factored all of that together. And what that meant was that we could actually, we didn't need to sell the entire $72.4 million that the voters had authorized. We actually spent about $1.87 million less. I mean, we sold $1.87 million less of bonds. And that ultimately resulted in savings to the taxpayers. Yes.
 So right now we are just in sort of the latter stages of the program, and with our OMS requested budget, we will be including these two remaining projects, and then we anticipate closing out the fund in fiscal year 17-18. Great. Thank you very much. I have a question about that. Okay.
 Certainly it's good to save taxpayers money whenever possible. Was the bond so specific that there weren't additional infrastructure needs in Portland Fire and Rescue that it could have been used for some of the other projects?
 It was very specific for the four projects, Station 21, radio replacement, ECC, and the apparatus. So we would not have been able to use any of those bond proceeds for, like, say, fire infrastructure for fire stations. It was very specific. But what's about the other apparatus?
 Other apparatus we would have been able to, because I think that there was – it was fairly broad in that respect. Just knowing how constrained the general fund is almost every year now, I'm a little bit concerned that we didn't use it for more apparatus. And I'm hoping that the five-year is not going to be coming to us in this budget or the next one saying, please give us $1.47 million to do apparatus purchases.
 Yeah, that didn't come up within when we were doing that final analysis of the program. Thank you. So what do you think of that idea? I'm Marco Bonetti, Deputy Chief of Logistics, Portland Fire and Rescue. And I think currently we're on track to purchase all of the apparatus we've identified that was in the geobond. We're down to two final apparatus, a foam unit and a dive van that we're just about to order. Okay.
 Additional funding for more apparatus would be a good way to spend that money, as Commissioner Fritz identified.
 Our ongoing replacement cycle, we use our frontline apparatus for 15 years and then put them into reserve for five years. So the geobonds intent was prior to its passage was to catch up our replacement cycle that was deferred year over year for probably a decade prior to the passage of the bond.
 We've been able to catch up to a point where we're just about the break-even point, but the Fire Bureau and the city will definitely need more apparatus. We're into the regular general fund monies now purchasing our replacement apparatus. We just recently ordered two more tiller trucks.
 that's about $2 million or $2.3 million. So any additional funding, you know, if it could come out of the bond, would be beneficial for FIRE, but that would be a decision the chief and council would have to make. I'm glad you raised the question, Commissioner Fritz, and obviously you, Commissioner Sullivan, and the Bureau might want to examine that question. We have to stay true to the voters' intent, obviously, and not, you know, go spend bond proceeds on something that the voters didn't authorize. But since, you know, apparatus purchase was one of the,
 purposes of this measure and you mentioned actually something in passing there chief and a which is the issue of foam trucks I'm very happy that we as a city have decided we're not going to have massive fossil fuel export facilities in our city but one thing we don't have control over is whether the railroads move oil through our city and trains and having seen the incident in Mosier I'm glad you're buying foam equipment
 But the question I guess I would pose is, and we've talked about this, do you have robust enough foam equipment for the kind of incident that just occurred in Mosier? Is that a purchase that we ought to think about making in terms of the inventory of equipment the Bureau has? So, you know, on that specific point, I would say take another look. And certainly on the larger question of is there an apparatus that,
 it's reasonable for us to include in a capital program funded by this bond versus the Bureau coming to the Council in the upcoming budget process and saying we've got these capital requests that will be competing against the rest of the Bureaus for one-time money. Just considering that if it's $1.2 million, we've got 600,000 people in Portland, that's $2 each. And I personally would like you to invest my share of that into getting more safety equipment. Okay.
 okay yeah that's a good point we'll we'll definitely take a look at that yeah as our run volumes increase uh the wear and tear on our apparatus uh is you know increasing as well uh our repair and maintenance costs go up the older the apparatus gets so uh by maintaining our ongoing replacement cycle and and minimizing the impact of a possible catastrophic failure of our older reserve apparatus that are pressed into first-line service
 Being ahead of the curve on apparatus replacement for emergency response and just the public good is a really good investment in the city. Yeah, good. Thank you. And one last thing. To date, the Geobond has purchased 29 apparatus for ongoing resources that will serve the city for the next 15 to 20 years.
 That's great. Thank you very much. Anything else? Yeah, I interrupted your presentation. No, that's fine. I was going to keep it brief, but that's a very good point. And money is always a challenge when it comes to apparatus replacement. As technology increases, manufacturing costs increase.
 We want to maintain our technological advances and not purchase the old stuff with old things. We want to make sure that our investment is prudent for whatever the technology is in front of us. So we try and...
 weigh the costs associated with what that new technology might be, but we also want to keep our safety features associated with protecting the people on those apparatus up to snuff, and that comes with significant costs also. So we're doing our best to keep the costs down and making sure that these work trucks are designed just for that.
 But we also want to make sure we have the best quality and the best apparatus because they've got to work every time that you need them.
 Thank you very much. Good morning. Good morning. Carl Larson, Public Safety Systems Revitalization Program. Probably the last time I'll have to say that whole title. And first, I'd just like to compliment the Fire Bureau and the representative here, because any time I come before the council and I get money thrown at me, I wouldn't be doing handsprings at the back. So I think that's good. Now, we certainly appreciate being able to talk to you at least one more time. We'll probably be back in front of you for a final report. Thank you.
 on on the radio project to give you a final wrap-up of it, but for you mayor Hales and for Commissioner Novick It's nice to be able to speak to you one last time on this project because although this project was started Before you came into office this project that was really the bulk of it was done with you and with Commissioner Novick's Assistance and support so we appreciate that very much. I
 The project, if you look at it, touches all of the bureaus, all of the commissioners. In some form or another, your employees take advantage of the radio system. Over the last year or so, we've touched 15 radio sites, 14 of which are in operation. One has been decommissioned.
 We've touched more than 12,000 pieces of equipment in those radio sites. Over 6,000 radios, both handhelds and mobile radios, have been touched and will be touched again for this project.
 The project actually went live in two weeks in October. October 12th, we turned on what we call the East Simulcast System, and the next week we turned on the West Simulcast System. And the day after, we had that catastrophic event on 23rd. So it was unfortunately a good test for our radio system as well. And then, of course, all the activity that happened in November and for all of the public safety operations to be able to take advantage of the new radio system, that went extremely well as well.
 So we've had a lot of good successes. We've touched not just radio, though. It's important to look at what else we touched in the project, both shelters on three or four of the sites that we have upgraded or repurposed, if you will,
 Generators at those sites have been upgraded to make sure that they are going to work under catastrophic circumstances. Backup emergency battery systems have all been touched at those sites to make sure that they're working. And all of the communication between the radio sites
 has been upgraded to internet protocol, which allows us to take advantage of many of the features that are coming down the radio system as we go into the future. So lots of different things that we've got here, and not just public safety for just Multnomah County, but a lot of different agencies from schools to hospitals are touched by this project.
 So for Public Safety Systems, PSSRP, myself and my co-project manager, Mark Tanner, are excited about seeing this being wrapped up here in the next few months. We're just a small part of a very complex project. We know that all of the employees that we've been able to work with for all the bureaus have been wonderful for us.
 Both for police, particularly for police and fire, we've had a couple of people that have really taken the project by its tail and really made sure that we had all of the information taken care of for those specific agencies. But we've had a number of employees, BTS comms employees, our engineers, our technicians that do that, working with the BOAC staff and making sure that their needs are met.
 All of these things have been taken care of and we've been very very successful in the radio project itself along with the ICC and helping us analyze and really digest The type of information that we know is important for the public to see so we're pleased with the project We'll be back one more time to tell you about the conclusion Thank you all questions for our team that has managed this big effort. I
 Thank you. Thank you very much. I wanted to say thank you to the Independent Citizens Committee staff. They've been a joy to work with and echo their statement about this is a model –
 that should be followed in future geobonds and other types of resource management. We've had a great relationship with the financial staff. They've kept us on track and helped us figure things out at times. And all these projects were very, very complicated, a lot of balls in the air all the time, and everyone involved did a phenomenal job. So I want to commend everyone involved and thank you very much. I would just add that, in fact, we are following this model.
 We have a Parks Bond Oversight Committee, which is five people. We'll have a Housing Bond Oversight Committee, also five people. So you've set a good path for us to follow, and we are following it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, before we take action on this report, is there anyone else who wants to speak about it? Yes, I have four people signed up. Okay. The first three, please, coming up, are Nancy Newell, Joe Walsh, and Crystal Elinsky. Okay.
 Good morning. Go ahead, Nancy. Should I go ahead? Yes, please, go ahead. Okay. This is related to public safety. It's related to the bond project. The bond, yes. Just on the bond project. Yes, well, it's all these officials would be involved in a nuclear accident. And the nuclear plant just was shut down about two days ago in frozen conditions. How many people on this council know that? How many people know that we're on the Bonneville transmission line?
 How many people know how much risk there is? Arnie Gunderson, who pointed out that those were three meltdowns in Japan. This can be a meltdown situation. You're talking about catastrophic conditions. This you can't control. It's in our waters. It's in our waters already with all the flushing of radioactive water. This is a 31-year-old plant that has designed failure. Arnie Gunderson got out of the...
 engineering business with the nuclear industry and is one of the biggest critics and he is totally credible and he knows what he's talking about i've asked this council several times will you please pass a resolution you are now paying the most cost of any customer and i just had that proved by robert mccullough and you are also subjecting us to radioactive cancers so
 I am asking that this council pass a resolution. I don't know how much money this group has in order to respond to a radioactive accident because nobody talks about it. And this is an oversight that is inexcusable. It is something that should have stopped a long time ago. Thirteen governors of the Northwest demanded that it be shut, and it was stopped by the federal government. We're in a similar position now. We have 28 mostly public utilities that refuse to listen to reason.
 I don't really want to be part of another nuclear accident. I already have been in Three Mile Island. I know what goes on. I know the chaos. I know the storage of the waste. I know that there's no place to put it. You know that. You've got all the facts. You're getting more facts as our soils and our water are contaminated by Fukushima and people can't eat fish in Hawaii. Why do we want to be part of that history when our own governor was wise enough, Barbara Roberts, to say that's enough?
 Now we have Fred Miller as our budget director. He's going out. He left the country because of his involvement in Enron, and that's the truth. The county ran an illegal election when we tried for public power and did an illegal ballot title, and I won my federal case. And what did I get? One page in the Oregonian. All you're going to have is a page in the Oregonian, and Public Safety will have records of all the people that have cancer because you didn't do your job. And I'm asking you, for the future of our children at least,
 Get it done. Talk to the administrator. He can close it tomorrow. There were frozen conditions, and nothing was done. Nothing is done, and it's ongoing. And it's an active, worse than a nuclear bomb, because you can't stop it. You get a nuclear accident, you can't stop it. And I'm asking you to please pass that resolution. Thank you. Good morning. Ms. Lenski, I think you're next. Oh, I thought Joe was next. Let me catch my breath. Go ahead. Okay. I...
 I find two contradictions here. Crystal, please put your name in. Sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. It's been a while. And I was going to perfect it by next week, but I heard you canceled city council next week. So...
 I'll try to be perfect next year. My name is Crystal Elinsky. I represent 10,000. I find two contradictions coming up about, one is oversight committees, that we don't have them on a lot of our boards and a lot of our bureau committees.
 committees that handle certain projects. And I don't know why there's such a discrepancy, how some get them and some don't. It seems arbitrary. And those that do, I'll say Housing Bureau, for example. I mean, that's where we should have it, obviously. But when we have it in places that do seem to work or even ordained by, well, the federal courts, it's
 then we want to somehow dismantle them, like the citizen oversight on the advisory board on the Judge Simons 2012 DOJ agreement. And that was only yesterday. I remember testifying, and all of a sudden we're talking about getting rid of it. So that was weird.
 The other thing, speaking about health concerns, is I'd really like you to get that activist lawyer you kept talking about to come and look into this in addition to Monsanto. We are complicit. We are responsible. I talked about that last week. It is on all of us to change this, and this would be a good route for us to go is to hold those responsible and to make sure this doesn't happen again. But if we're going to be exposing our emergency victims
 I've testified about the Portland cops with their new machines and toys and how actually it turns out that they're exposed to more and more electromagnetic radiation. And I understand that the new technology that come out is not improving the bad technology they came out with for emergency responders about 10, 15 years ago.
 I can't remember what it's called right now. But what I've read is that as far as health safety, as far as the concerns for the exposure to electromagnetic radiation, our responders, the people that are supposed to keep us safe, are not safe. And I'd love to yield the rest of my time to my colleagues here. Thank you very much. Mr. Walsh, go ahead.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Right off the bat, Individuals for Justice really supports the fire department. We like the fire department. One of the few bureaus that we really like because they try. They're not perfect. They just try. We don't see that up here at all. You people do not try.
 You just make decisions that you think are right and how are the citizens? Over and over and over again. So we object to you, Mayor, voting on this because this is going to have implications to the following, Mayor, and we will object to everyone that you vote on and Commissioner Novick votes on because you have spent four years corrupting this body. That's our opinion. We hope that you sit on your boat
 And when it gets really boring, you start to think of all the people that you murdered on our streets. 88 last year that you did. You stole their blankets. You stole their tents. You, Mayor, that's what you did. 88 people died because of you. And even the professionals that you appointed said it was not necessary.
 88 human beings. Sit on your goddamn boat. Mr. Walsh, not in this room. Sit on your boat, then. And look out at that sunset and say, I am going to hell. Because that's what I wish for you. You to go to hell and take that guy with you. Thank you very much. Happy holidays. Who else would like to speak? No, not happy holidays. Charles Johnson. It's not funny when 88 people die.
 Who'd like to speak next? Come on up. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And I don't know how well people relate to this presentation, but they should know that the ICC, the Independent Assistance Committee, does have a fairly comprehensive 21-page electronic attachment on this. And we learned that kind of as Portland usual, Fire Station 21 is on page 5.
 looks great as it should for being $2 million over budget. Our radio system may be going to come in under budget, but whenever we talk about public safety and emergency, it's actually important to go back to item number 1-420, when Mike Withey talked about the fact that thousands of people are unsheltered on our streets. Now, we know that this is bond money. We can't save lives of homeless people
 with that money, in theory, that would be unconstitutional or illegal. But Ms. Newell mentioned the fact that there's all kinds of risk to the city that, you know, while we're doing our little bit with this general obligation bond money, Bechtel is raking in a lot more money to screw up Hanford where the Columbia generating station is.
 And so I hope that as we finish out this last bit of money, we'll make sure that when things go wrong at Hanford CGS, our fire department has resources to deal with whatever fallout will come. I think that that needs to be part of when we consider that the big one is coming, the earthquake, the preparedness that will take down our current courthouse because we haven't seismic upgraded it. We're working on that. Bye-bye, veritable quandary.
 But that our emergency services departments need to be prepared for things that will originate outside the Portland city limits, including until we get it shut down. And even after. I mean, Hanford's not been giving us plutonium to nuke the world with for a few years now. But there are additional risks. And the other thing that I didn't hear mentioned is what percentage of our residents are now living in,
 above the 10th floor, above the 12th floor, above the 20th floor? I pretty, you know, we have a new fire chief. I'm sure that the existing infrastructure in the fire department thinks about these things, but we also should. What if that gas explosion in Northwest had happened next to a 20 or 30 story building? Have we purchased adequate fire safety resources to protect office workers or people that live 300 feet off the ground? Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, any further discussion if not is there a motion to accept the report no move second roll call please
 all right we always really appreciate people who sit in volunteer citizen committees especially ones that aren't particularly glamorous because they're just sort of seeing how we're spending money that we decided to spend and making sure that we're doing it the right way so we really really appreciate the our citizen advisors work thank you so much aye
 Well, thank you to former Commissioner Randy Leonard for passing this bond in 2010 and to all the folks who put such a lot of hard work into it to make sure that that money was spent on the right, the things that were promised. Thanks especially to Nicolette Johnson, who served as my representative on the committee. I really appreciate the work that she and the others have done. And I do appreciate, Mayor, you doing that.
 And Commissioner Saltzman, you're going to look again as to could we spend the last amount that was promised in order to buy more equipment. Thank you very much. Aye. Yes. We referred this to the voters in 2010. And Commissioner Fritz, I think, has appropriately acknowledged Commissioner Randy Leonard, who was the author of the referral and then ran the campaign.
 The day after the election, we nicknamed him Landslide Leonard because he won that 50% to 50%, and it was literally hundreds of votes was the march on victory. And after all, we've had a great tradition in this council referring things to the public and asking their permission. The children's levy, the parks bond, the housing bond, the gas tax, the arts tax, public safety, GO bond, and we wish –
 that we had more resources from the federal government, the state government, and a more stable tax system, so we didn't have to do this on such a regular basis. But the voters gave us their okay, and what we owe them was a report that we spent the money wisely, and that's what we're acknowledging today. I want to thank Mick Seidel, who was my appointee. I met Mick before I was
 prominent consumer and plaintiff's employment lawyer. He's the kind of lawyer that we hope doesn't sue the city because he rarely loses, but he's a public-spirited person and he threw himself into this assignment and we owe Mick and all the volunteers a big debt of thanks. One historical note about the referral that we sent to the voters.
 Commissioner Leonard in 2010 proposed that there be a small amount of money carved out to help fund a memorial to fallen firefighters. Every year, one of the most solemn things we do in this community is we gather at the Campbell Memorial, which is on Burnside, and we honor men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice serving our city. And we remember Chief Campbell, for whom that memorial is named and one of our vessels is named.
 in 2010 the council and commissioner leonard made a decision to take that money out that could be used for a replacement memorial colleagues i hope this year as a broad community coalition is moving towards raising private funds to build that memorial i hope through our special appropriation process we can find a way to make a contribution on behalf of the citizens of portland um
 We owe our fire bureau and the men and women who serve a lot, and I think it's an appropriate use of our funds to honor those who've perished, keeping us safe. And I hope either on the anniversary of Chief Campbell's death or on the anniversary of 9-11, this council can announce support for a community initiative to build the new memorial on the Vera Katz Esplanade, which I think would be entirely appropriate. Thanks to all who worked to make this day possible. I'm proud to vote aye.
 Well, I want to thank Portland voters first for approving this general obligation bond measure. I want to thank Commissioner Leonard for bringing it forward and the Oversight Committee for their diligence and making sure that we have spent this money wisely. I believe that we have, and I believe as a result we are a safer, more prepared city with a new fire station, a new emergency communications center, a new radio system.
 and a host of other things, too, that are all important for assuring the safety of Portland residents in time of need. So thank you to all those. And I also wanted to note that we also purchased, with this bond money, four rapid response vehicles that allow the Fire and Rescue Department to provide a more nimble response than sending out a ladder truck or an engine or both
 with an amr ambulance for low-level medical calls we can use these rrvs or rapid response vehicles staffed by two people to respond to these low-level medical calls and i think it provides a more nimble response and a more cost-effective public safety system so again thank you all for your service and pleased to vote aye
 Well, this is a case of both citizens playing a really appropriate and constructive role and capable people in public administration delivering a success. And it's one of those things that probably won't get a lot of press attention but deserves to because one more case where the city of Portland has carried out the voters' intent.
 gotten the job done, even had a little money left over. So excellent work all around. I had a little bit of involvement in some of the issues that had to be worked out for this program to succeed, including that difficult negotiation with Gresham about a location for one of the radio sites. But we got to yes on that as well, thanks to your good work.
 And this is a great program. And for any kind of emergency, as we've just seen a couple of times here recently, we have to be able to communicate with each other. And so that radio system is key. Having the equipment that we need and the facilities that will be there after the earthquake to serve people that will desperately need help is part of the work of the Fire Bureau. And this advances all that. So well done. Well done indeed. Aye. Okay. Let's take up our next time certain item, which is 1422. Okay.
 Appropriate $300,000 of contingency funding from the City's General Fund to the Portland Bureau of Transportation for emergency Vision Zero improvements and community engagement efforts on outer division.
 well this is a timely item and i appreciate us being able to get this on the council calendar you know we're a safer city in a lot of ways than we were once our homicide rate is down quite a bit although we still have a serious gang violence problem
 Drug overdoses are a plague on our city, and we haven't even yet addressed the issue of fentanyl that is devastating other cities. Blessedly, not here much yet. And yet, traffic violence is up, up markedly and tragically.
 And having had two of our neighbors killed in one day on one street was a terrible reminder of how much we have to do to really achieve Vision Zero. We have a lot of streets in our city that were not designed for pedestrian and bicycle safety, and in fact were designed for speed safety.
 or automotive speed, and that's deadly. And we keep relearning that lesson. So this appropriation allows us to do a little more, a little more quickly. And I appreciate us being able to put that together. I think maybe my colleagues have some comments before we start as well. First, Steve. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 On the evening of December 7th, less than a week after the council passed the historic Vision Zero language, we had two Portlanders lose their lives to traffic violence. Both deaths occurred on the same night and on the same street, outer division. And while in-depth analysis of these particular incidents is still in progress, nothing changes the fact that we have years of data showing that travel speeds and our high injury network streets like Division continue to hurt and kill Portlanders.
 I want to acknowledge Margie Bradway for her reference immediately after these tragedies. She was immediately in communication with and Lori Boyson from the Division Midway Alliance who do work along at our division. So when the mayor convened a conference call to discuss these incidents, again, the day after they occurred, I really appreciate the mayor's quick attention to this issue.
 Margie had already had some of those conversations and had some suggestions from the community and herself to offer us. The mayor of the community conference call with Leah Treeds, Chief Marshman and other city staff working diligently to make our streets safer and PBOT and the police bureau's identified strategies that could be utilized to make our division safer. These strategies include a mix of infrastructure improvements.
 and the deployment of fixed-speed safety cameras, which were already on PBOT's agenda. We discussed whether the timetable for some of those could be accelerated. But Margie had also discussed with community leaders the idea of multilingual and culturally competent outreach material for people walking, driving,
 biking in the area. Examples of that might include traffic signs in different languages. We know that those are tools that are proven to decrease the rate of traffic of violence on our streets.
 Although the infrastructure improvements and the fixed speed safety cameras are funded through PBOT's existing budget, we don't have funding for that kind of outreach, which is why the Mayor suggested that we bring a proposal to Council for general fund contingency to be used to do some of that outreach. So, Mayor, I want to thank you for your role in convening this effort and your urgency in addressing the deaths and injuries occurring on our streets.
 And I'll turn it over to Margie Bradway, PPOT's Active Transportation and Safety Division Manager, who can provide more information about our efforts and our thoughts about what we can do immediately. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Fish, anything before Margie begins? Yes, Mayor, thank you. Steve, I think the work you've done around Vision Zero is among the most important things that you've done during your four years on the council. And we have committed to continuing that work.
 in the future. And I just want to, again, thank you for the tremendous leadership that you've shown on Vision Zero. The skepticism we sometimes hear is it's a wonderful concept. Is the city willing to act and put it into action? And today I think our action speaks loudly. If we can take actions like this and prevent one person from having to
 go through the trauma of losing a loved one, then we will have done something important. And I want to thank the mayor and Commissioner Novick for bringing this forward so quickly.
 very much on the comments. Ms. Bradway, good morning. Yeah, good morning. Thank you. My name is Margie Bradway. I'm the Active Transportation and Safety Division Manager. Thank you. It has been my absolute honor, just to repeat, to work with Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick on these safety issues. I'm going to try to keep my comments brief so you can hear from community members. I want to recognize that quite a few people from East Portland are in the room and have traveled here today to testify. For
 through three slides which is short for me so just a reminder that when we brought division zero action plan we introduced you to the concept of the high crash network you can see on the map that outer division and division is a high crash corridor the circles on this map indicate high crash intersections this is unfortunately where mr. Jang and mr. who died while crossing Division Street right near those high crash intersections
 The ordinance before you today is going to provide much-needed funding for outreach and education. This was something that we piloted in 2014 with APANO and other groups to do train-the-trainer programs on pedestrian safety with my staff, Sharon White, and different types of safety classes and training in Cantonese, Hmong, and Russian. We're going to do more of that in addition to materials.
 outreach and street teams. Very specific request that came from community was having more traffic signs and wayfinding signs in different languages. This money will allow us to do that and also I don't want to skip over it. Very importantly we're also going to have a community forum and listening sessions. The first step in any outreach effort is listening and partnership and this money will allow us to do that.
 In addition to this ordinance, we're taking other actions. Probably the most significant action is we're going to accelerate the installation of fixed-speed cameras on Division. You may remember when we presented to you about six months ago, oh, I guess it's been nine months now since we presented to you on fixed-speed cameras, we proposed to do a six-month rollout of every camera. So we have...
 cameras pointing east direction of Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway. Our next set of cameras was going to be on 122nd and January. That's still slated for January. And then outer division at 156th was slated for July. We're moving up that installation and installing the cameras on 122nd and on outer division at the same time.
 The cameras have been hugely successful. We talked about this a little bit at their Vision Zero presentation. On Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway, they reduced speeds by 95% top-end speed. Is that installed by January of 2017? Installed by January. That does not mean. So there's installation Xerox. Our vendor has agreed to install them by then, and it's within their contract. Okay.
 We are meeting with the courts on January 5th and police to figure out when the citations begin. We can start warnings and we can start citations. When the citations begin, that will have an impact on court staffing as well as police staffing. We're still working out those details. Thank you, Commissioner Salzman. In addition, we'll be installing speed reader boards. These are also known as cheap and effective methods for slowing speeds.
 And once we do the first two steps, then we will be pursuing a speed reduction of 30 miles an hour with ODOT. And I'm happy to answer questions on how those speed requests work, but it is generally better to get the 85th percentile speed down before you put the request in, something that ODOT considers. Can you give us a quick primer on how that works in terms of the request to ODOT and what's the process they go through?
 Sure. So generally, we put in a request to ODOT to lower speed. If there's an existing work order and it doesn't fall within our statutory categories, they will look at different features of the road, and they heavily weight what is the current 85th percentile speed.
 The current 85th percentile speed on our last data collection is around 42 miles an hour, even though the posted speed is 35 miles an hour. And so to just change the posted speed right now, ODOT's answer would say, well, that's a little bit of an uphill battle because you're not doing enforcement or the design speed is faster. Does that make sense? So the road is designed to be faster. So we're going to – you'll see my next slide. Okay.
 proposed to do engineering improvements as well as enforcement to complement the posted speed. Can I ask you, just Margie, a provocative question? Sure. If the mayor or the commissioner in charge on any street within the physical boundaries of our city made a judgment that there was a clear and present danger to public health and safety and decided to unilaterally reduce the speed postings as a matter of public safety,
 And I'm reminded that the mayor has actually the power to shut down the street. The mayor can declare it unsafe, have a firefighter, have a firetruck block it, can route people off, can direct the water bureau to bring up the pipes. The mayor has a lot of power if he wanted. What is the consequence if we just engage in self-help if we choose not to wait for ODOT? Yeah.
 Commissioner Fish, with all due respect, you don't have the authority to do that currently. I understand. The law is clear. And I'm not trying to put you, I'm not trying to get you to violate any oaths. I'm just saying, if the council chooses to act, what is the practical recourse if we act ahead of ODOT?
 If the mayor just directs to have new signs put up at some point, what's the consequence? No, police probably, I would have to look into it, but the police probably couldn't enforce it if it wasn't consistent with state statute. The best way to do that is to go to the state legislature and ask for local control of speed. And that is something that we have discussed with the legislative team, and we've discussed with certain partners in pursuing it, the state legislator.
 office. And so, again, just before Leah continues with this discussion, it's important, I think, a lot of people don't understand that ODOT has this authority not just on ODOT facilities. Right. In other words, Powell is an ODOT facility. Highway 26 is an ODOT facility. But Division is a city street. Nevertheless, we have to ask ODOT for speed changes on Division. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for that clarification. That's the current law. That's the current law. The current law is that ODOT has jurisdiction over every road, all roads in the state of Oregon. But I'm just, at some point maybe after this hearing, I'd like to know, like, what is the practical consequence? The director of ODOT comes and expresses displeasure to the mayor? They disapprove. That's happened. What's about if we left the 35 signs up and put underneath a new one that said, please drive 30?
 So you wouldn't be able to cite people going between 30 and 35, but it would, you know, like the signs people have slow children playing. Yeah. There's no practical enforcement of that either, but it does let you know. Yes. Yes, Commissioner Fritz, we could do that, and we've looked into variable message signs would probably be the most appropriate way to do that.
 Thank you. Ms. Treat, I think you had some comments you wanted to add to Margie's presentation on this subject. No, I think she's doing a magnificent job. I just saw it veering in a different direction and wanted to be here to support. When we're asking a city employee how to break state law, yes.
 Thank you for bailing her out. I appreciate yours doesn't need my bailing out. We do want to move on into the discussion, but it is an important issue for the legislative program next year. I'm glad, Mayor, that you, on the record, clarified that we have to seek this permission even on roads that we are responsible for. So it isn't just on the state roads. It's on a road that may pass by a school where you may determine there's a
 imminent public safety issue, but you still have to get permission of a state actor. Right. And there's, again, we don't want to get into the legislative discussion in depth now, but I want to flag that. I think there's obviously a strong interest on the current and I suspect future council
 to include that in the legislative program, that having at least more, if not total, local control over speeds on arterial streets is a reasonable thing to ask for. It's crazy, in my opinion, to have ODOT making these decisions.
 I understand there used to be small towns that were speed traps, and so that's perhaps a rationale for why the state's been involved. But we're not a small town, and these aren't speed traps. So there ought to be, at least for larger cities with a big network, an exception and let us do our job, in my opinion. So, sorry. Correct. Wholeheartedly agree. Thank you. I'm happy to brief you in depth, Commissioner Fitch, another time. Okay. I'm not at all...
 So the last piece of this in terms of next steps on division is, of course, infrastructure changes. And through what we call EPAT, East Portland Active Transportation Grant, as well as federal safety funding, we have many projects lined up.
 In fact, we have approximately $7 million of funding lined up for outer division. We're doing our best right now to accelerate those projects. There are many pedestrian projects that include Median Islands, Hawk Signals, and Rapid Flash and Beacons. Many of those, approximately three of those, will go into construction this summer and be completed by the end of the year. And we're seeing if we can move forward with our partners ODOT and TriMet and the federal government to accelerate those projects.
 The last piece on the engineering side is that through Commissioner Novak's leadership on fixing our streets, there was money allocated for outer division for protected bike lanes, approximately $168,000. Director Treat has agreed to take extra GTR in our budget and add $500,000 to make it a complete traffic calming project.
 So the project will now include pedestrian refuges, lighting that the community has much asked for, as well as other ways to slow the speed down. We are looking at doing that by removing parking right now. And it would also potentially restrict some access points. We will be bringing a couple different options to the community and getting community input on that traffic calming project. And that is...
 All I have, there is a map that you should have received in your handout. It's difficult to see, but here's a visual of everything that I talked about, from speed reader boards to photo camera to the projects slated for 2017-18. Yes, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I was glad you mentioned lighting because we just yesterday had a Parks Board budget committee meeting at the East Portland Community Center and driving back in the dark and rain.
 even though the streetlights have been changed to the LEDs, it was still not enough streetlights. So I do hope we're working with the streetlight providers to add more lighting where it's needed everywhere.
 And the other thing, I apologize for not seeing this before, but we need to correct the findings. Number one, it says 41 people have died on Portland streets in 2016 since December 11th. I think you meant through December 11th. It's a horrific number. I just wanted to clarify that, and I hope you'll accept that as a friendly scripture. That's a scripture. Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you. Other questions for our staff? Thank you both very much. I know we have a number of people from the community that are here to speak. More invited testimony first. Some invited testimony, Steve. Yes, we have invited testimony from Rosaline Hoey, Duncan Huang, and Lori Boyson. Please come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome. My name is Rosaline Hoey, and I am the editor of the Blunt Chinese Times, the local Chinese newspaper, and I'm also the steering committee member of the J District.
 So thank you for giving me this opportunity to share a sad story of our community. On December 7th, we have a community elder, 65 years old man, Mr. Chang, when he was get off from work at a restaurant, which he is doing a dishwasher. And then he walked home. On his way home, he was hit and killed by a car.
 And this was so sad. And when I heard of this news, I was thinking whether this will be Chinese. So on the second day, and then I found out it was Chinese. So we, together with a few of our members, we tried to find out this family and see if they need help. So finally, we got a hold of them. Actually, it's only his wife here. So we went to his house.
 And the wife was so hopeless. And he told me that on that day, he was like usual, expecting his husband to come back to work and come back from work. But he didn't. And then around maybe 11, she was so worried. So she walked the path where his husband used to walk every day to work every
 and then hoping to see his husband. But when she walked along the path, and at the end, she saw the police cars. She was so saddened. And she was praying that it was not her husband. But finally, it is. And she knows English. But he, with the help of...
 her niece, he would be able to communicate with the police there.
 He is 65 years old. Both couples are 65 years old. And then they just come to stay here for a year's time. And they come here, look for a better life, and also trying to find opportunities for their son and their grandkids to have a better life here. But because of death of Mr. Chang, it seems like it's all vanished here.
 So, and when I saw her, she was so hopeless and no English speaking and doesn't know what to do. So our community members are coming together to trying to help her. So...
 We, in this case, we just, our community member, everybody pinching to help with money and with like funeral arrangements. We care about our community members so much, but we don't want to care them in such a sad way.
 So we do think that the city can do something on the road safety in that area. Because that is in the J district area, mostly the people there are immigrants, and a lot of them are new immigrants. They don't drive. They walk on the road to work and to buy things and do grocery and everything. They just walk.
 And division is just such a horrible role. In Chinese saying, every day when we walk into the street, it's just like we are walking into a tiger's mouth.
 you just put your life into danger. So just like two years or three years ago, we have another accident that we have another elder that's killed and crushed. And we think that within three years, two of our elders are killed by car. This is already too much, too much for us.
 So we are, you know, everything is talking about equality, equity, and justice. We want, when we're talking about road safety, we want to have this too. So we really hope that if we can have the road sign into different languages like English
 not only Chinese, there are a lot of Vietnamese or other people there, then different languages, at least the people that, you know, they understand and they know what it's talking about and what should they do, and also educating them in different languages is really important. And division is...
 Really, the road is too wide. It really takes, it seems like it takes forever to cross the road. So it's really dangerous, and we really want the car to lower their speed. And also at the nighttime, the visibility is really low, and we really think that all this matters cause what happened today.
 And yes, last night I received a call from one of the community members that saw years ago another elder was hit and killed by a car. He told me that you need to tell them that there's not only these two cases that everybody knows. There is a lot of small accidents too. He sees it.
 very frequent because his car lot is just in the middle of that section of the road. So we do hope that the city can do something to help those helpless people in our community. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Wong, good morning. Good morning. Good morning, City Council. My name is Duncan Huang. I'm the Associate Director at APANO in the Jade District. And I'm here to say that
 Our neighborhood and our community is facing a crisis in public health. Our elders are dying in our streets, and we believe that these are preventable measures.
 traffic safety is not a new ask from us. You know, since we started working in the J district three years ago, we started with a multilingual community visioning. We did this in Chinese and Vietnamese and Russian and Spanish and English. And, you know, the issue of traffic safety and walkability was not just unique to the Chinese community or Vietnamese community. Every community, you know, said that these streets are dangerous and something must be done to
 So in our vision, we've really prioritized the infrastructure investments, the lighting, and in-language signage. So we can't continue to let this happen. And, you know, working in the diverse neighborhoods of the Jade District and Division Midway, these are diverse areas, and the solutions that we need are diverse as well.
 So in the short term, we want to get started next week. We want to do our listening sessions and outreach to our community members. This is something that people have asked about. We want to have town halls with our decision makers and with PBOT. And we want to get to work on signage. These are things that we can do starting tomorrow.
 In the midterm, these are really things that are more infrastructure-focused. We want to see crosswalks. Community members have actually identified specific intersections where crosswalks would be helpful. We want to see slower speeds, and we want to see lighting. And in the longer term, outer division really just needs a complete –
 street redesign, traffic calming, and potentially a road diet. So these are things that we would like to explore with our decision makers over the long term. But it's gonna require multiple interventions to really move the dial on traffic safety. We believe that infrastructure is key, but I know these things take time, and we can't do nothing in the meantime. So we wanna get started with the education and outreach immediately.
 I was on the Vision Zero Task Force and I believe that these accidents are preventable.
 and that our vision for having no fatalities in our streets can't be achieved until the most vulnerable in our community feel safe and are protected as well. So I urge the City Council to pass this emergency ordinance and to act in all due haste to fix our streets. Thank you. Thank you very much. Morning, Laura. Hello, Council Mayor. I'm Laura Wintergreen with the East Portland Action Plan. Lori Boyson was supposed to be here, but she was sick instead.
 So she asked me to read her testimony, and she says Division Midway Alliance is asking City Council to approve the Outer Southeast Division near-term safety strategy, which is currently under consideration. Okay.
 As you know, Division Midway Alliance district boundaries are from 117th to 148th avenues on Division, and the largest percentage of fatalities this year have occurred in the Division Midway Alliance district. While all pedestrian fatalities impact the community, Division Midway Alliance staff, volunteers, and board members have personally felt the impacts of recent fatalities in and around the district.
 Damon Burton, who was struck near 122nd and Division in September, was a tenant of the Division Midway Alliance president. Mitt Yu, the most recent fatality at 156th and Division, frequented Division Midway Alliance Myanmar community office hours. The Outer Southeast Division near-term safety strategy is a good start to the needed safety improvements along Outer Southeast Division Street.
 PBOTS, Portland Bureau of Transportation's recognition of the importance of pedestrian education in this area is essential to the success of this program. A large percentage of the residents living in and around Division Midway Alliance District
 are immigrant refugee New Portlanders, many of whom, as refugees, and a large percentage of these residents are pedestrians. Navigating a seven-lane road, which Division Street is considered in the Midway District, is difficult and dangerous.
 Further, understanding Oregon's pedestrian laws can be confusing for new Americans and new Portlanders, let alone residents who do not use English as a first language. Signage in language and, she stresses, in picture will be essential to the success of this project. Thank you.
 In picture refers to using symbols to explain pedestrian laws and recognizes that a significant number of people are immigrant refugee New Portlanders and may not be literate in their own language, let alone English. Division Midway Alliance is pleased to see that the strategy has basic infrastructure improvements such as additional crosswalks, sidewalks, and speed cameras.
 As stated earlier, this is a good start towards achieving a Vision Zero for this area. However, Division Midway Alliance urges City Council to establish a longer-term strategy that will change the landscape of Division Street. Division Street needs a road diet. Community has called out road safety as the number one issue, impending livability on Division Street, and Council has the power to address that.
 Division Midway Alliance urges City Council to approve the Outer Southeast Division near-term safety strategy, which will be a significant step towards creating a safer, more livable Outer Southeast Division street and will aid to the transportation of this part of Portland to a more livable city.
 Division Midway Alliance also urges City Council to prioritize a long-term safety strategy for Outer Southeast Division. That will include the road diet and improving livability for this part of Portland. And I would add that street lighting is an essential component. Thank you very much. Thank you all very much. Do we have some other invited testimony? Commissioner Haley.
 I think that's all the invited tests for. Okay, but we do have other people signed up to speak, I believe, so let's take those. Thank you very much. I have 12 people signed up. The first three are Arlene Kimura, Crystal Ilinsky, and Charles Johnson. Good morning, Ms. Kimura. Good morning. Good morning, Council Members, Mayor, Hales. My name is Arlene Kimura, and I'm a resident of East Portland.
 I'm here on behalf of the residents to tell the Portland Bureau of Transportation, thank you for doing the safety camera infrastructure improvements and also to consider continued education. It is part of the program that was passed under the $300,000, but I do believe it needs to be an ongoing proposition. We are now seeing an influx of Arab-speaking refugees in our part of town,
 And I think those need to be addressed separately, and they can't just be done in one language. Signage is important. Thank you again, but I urge you please to not forget that this cannot be a one-time thing. It needs to be an ongoing thing. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Johnson, I think you're next. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And although usually when I'm in that area, coming down from the Midtown Library, it's a little bit closer to
 stark than it is to division. Um, these tragic deaths, uh, really remind us of what we're supposed to be about as a progressive and delightfully weird, uh, city that we need. Uh, it's unfortunate that we didn't come together better to look at the needs of elderly people and, uh, people with challenges about, uh, language comprehension, whether it's in their native birth language or in English and rally around these people sooner. So I hope that, uh,
 that you, as elected commissioners and representatives of the people, will be as generous as you can in these constrained budget times, both with city staff as well as just the bottom line numbers. As you know, I'm a great skeptic of the time constraints and shortage of time.
 man hours in the police department when I see the huge responses that our police department is able to mount to nonviolent activity. And I hope that Chief Marshman is watching or will see this video and will be in that neighborhood and engaging –
 With the leaders from Apano, the stores along Division just east of PCC are a joy to shop at. And as we move further east from there, that is what Rio community policing is, is having people from the police department of all ethnic backgrounds and from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement talking with the neighbors in addition to putting in as...
 We need to give props to these people with their infrastructure sign right here, a full-on onslaught of fast-moving infrastructure changes and people in the community working together to improve safety. I hope you'll find a bottom-line number and man hours for this. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I live on Division, believe it or not.
 I live in the 70s, but I also take the MAX, which is up by 92nd Street. And I don't know if any of you have done that, coming from the MAX station over to pick up the 4 bus. Very dangerous. I've almost got hit twice. The outer lane of cars cannot see you. So the first lane stops. So the person who pushed the button did everything right, and I'm old and I'm getting a little frail.
 So I'm a little slow. So when I walk into that second lane twice in the last year, I've almost been hit by a car going at least 30 miles an hour because they don't see me, and they don't see the blinking light at whatever time it is, 2 o'clock in the afternoon. At nighttime, it's probably better, but at daytime, they don't see it. I looked at this, and this is the way a city council is supposed to work.
 People come to you with a problem. You look at it. If it makes sense to do something, do it. If it's $300,000 or $600,000, I would be more in favor of more money than less. And I know I hammer you guys about money. But in this case...
 You have to do something. And you could be stars. You know, you don't get that chance very often. You could be stars on the east part of this city. So please, do this. And if it takes more money, give them the more money. And I really like Commissioner Fritz's idea about getting more lights in. I like lights. They make the cars stop.
 The rest of it is a cheap way of doing it, and it's supposed to be temporary, and then we end up 20 years later, we're still doing the same thing. Get the lights in. Get the money done. Be proud of what you're doing. I really like your questions for a change there, Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Thanks very much. Others? Next three are Ken, I believe the first name is Ken, and it might be Nami, and Jessica Engelman, and Christy Finney-Dunn. Good morning.
 Who would like to go first? Good morning. My name is Cam Marks. I live in East Portland. I've worked along Division, and I was the EPAP representative on the PAL Division High Capacity Rapid Transit Project. So I know Division very well. I'd like to start by saying please approve this measure, but do that knowing full well that this is just a Band-Aid.
 and that this is not going to have a significant impact on the situation on Outer Powell. And the reason for that is that this road needs significant redesigning to curtail what is happening.
 Everyone who knows anything about traffic knows that even with a 30-mile-an-hour posted speed limit, that drivers tend to go 10 to 15 miles above that whenever possible. That's especially true in East Portland where you have highways running through our communities.
 I would second those people who have suggested that there be a rogue diet on outer division. And the nice thing about that is you won't have to violate state laws on speed limits because you'll redesign the street so that it meets the requirements for lower speeds.
 But here's something that you should all know now. You have the opportunity before you to do this now, and it won't even cost you all a whole lot of money. And the reason for that is because of the high-capacity transit project that is going along Division. A lot of that redesign can be paid for by the federal government.
 you'll get your road diet, you'll get your infrastructure, and you'll actually make this system that's going along Outer Division a true BRT and not just a bigger bus that's going to take almost as long as it currently does to get people downtown or to wherever else they're going. So I urge you, yes, please, please,
 Pass this resolution, but go bigger, go strong, and do what's really going to be needed or that is needed. Otherwise, I'll make a prediction, and I'll be very sad when I'm in this chair two, three years from now. We will be talking about this same issue.
 then if you don't do what's really needed. Thank you. Thank you, Ken. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Jessica Engelman. I am one of the co-chairs of BikeLoud PDX.
 And I am actually really impressed all the people who showed up today and said a lot of what I wanted to say. So on December 10th, BikeLoud PDX, in response to the two pedestrian crashes on Division, held a emergency traffic calming endeavor. Okay.
 where we just placed hay bales in the outermost lanes of division to get it down to a three lane, you know, um, moving traffic road. And, and,
 You know, the community, and normally when we try to do something like that, a lot of people push back and say, oh, you know, we can't do that because whatever reason. And we've actually had a lot of community members from the Jade District in particular come up to us and say, this is great. You know, are you going to keep working on this? And what they specifically are looking for are those infrastructure changes.
 There's a lot of great ideas for education and signage out as well, but I really want to push the infrastructure part. Between Southeast 60th and 80th on that same street, for $100,000, PBOT did redesign the road and greatly reduced – they reduced speeding by 50 percent, and they reduced crashes quite significantly. And we just kind of want that same effort continued out.
 you know, I got to say the same thing that, you know, Joe was saying here about, you've got that two lane problem, you know, where one car stops, the other car doesn't. That's endemic to the city. I live in central east side. I see it all the time on the streets there. I mean, it's everywhere. You know,
 You know, definitely I'd say, you know, the lane reallocation, let's not call it a road diet, let's call it a lane reallocation because there are so many things we could do with those lanes. I mean, we've got the five moving traffic lanes and we've got two parking lanes. We could have buffered or protected bike lanes and bus rapid transit lanes and still have three lanes devoted to moving vehicles.
 The opportunities are immense. Let's be creative. I agree with Commissioner Fritz, or Fish, here. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner, Commissioners, and Mayor Hales. My name is Christy Finney-Dunn, and although I'm wearing a Families for Safe Streets T-shirt, I actually am here just as a mom, and I want to warn you I'm very highly emotional today.
 On December 7th, one of my group members was talking to me about having just lost another member of our community at the exact same location that her son died on 156th and the division. And just a few minutes later, I realized that there had been a second traffic collision at the exact same location that my son died at 87th and division. I'm feeling sorry.
 extremely emotional, like I said, because people are still dying on the same road and at the same locations. I'm feeling as though victims are still minimized in this arena because we personally wrote a letter to the council and to PBOD and we got no response about our concerns. Nada, we're sorry that this has happened to remind you again that still people are dying
 We are the reason that this is so important. My son was 28 years old. He was a college student. He cared about equality for all people. I want to applaud you for taking the immediate action that was taken in this case. And I'm not going to talk about the infrastructure needs and the education needs, because you apparently know that and you've already heard it. So I just want to stress the urgency. I want to stress that...
 I'm here taking time off work. I was at the meeting yesterday taking time off work. And you're not seeing very many victims because nobody wants to talk about it. So I hope that you don't think, and I know you don't, but it seems to me that maybe people think that I'm the only one who's lost a child or I'm the only one who's lost someone in this city because no one else is willing to get up and talk about it. They don't talk about it because they can't.
 So please, take us seriously. Use us. Put us in those education outreach things. Use our pictures. Use our stories. At least those of us willing to have you do that. And again, thank you so very much for the immediate action that you're taking on this. And remember, it's here for the long haul, too. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. The next three are Ted Buehler, Noel Mickelberry, and Doug Klotz. Hello, Mayor and Council.
 Thank you very much for attending to this issue today, and thank you for the emergency funding for this. I encourage you all to vote. I'm sorry, did you get to put your name in the back of the record? My name is Ted Buehler, and I'm a co-chair of BikeLoud PDX, and I want to thank you all for attending to this issue today. And...
 We don't want to come up here again to talk about the same sort of thing again. And as you saw in Margie's slide, there's about 12 other roads in Portland that are almost as dangerous or just as dangerous as division. I would encourage you all to see about getting those things accelerated and made safer so that you don't have to have us coming up here and telling you about people dying on the streets and you folks having emergency measures. Okay.
 There's all sorts of reasons to have fewer people dying on the streets of Portland, and it's in your hands to get the direction and the budget to your Bureau of Transportation and the direction and budget to your police bureau to make sure that the existing laws are enforced and that improvements are made immediately.
 to the infrastructure and I think you all should get those things funded and then you won't need to listen to us again. We don't want to come back but we will keep on coming back if needed. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Noelle Mickelberry. I'm the Executive Director of Oregon Walks, the state's pedestrian advocacy organization.
 Outer Division has been an emergency for far too long, and this month's tragedies simply brought that to the surface again. Spoken to you many times about the drastic need for improvements in attention in East Portland. And to reach Vision Zero, we have to be proactive as well as responsive when our streets show us that change is necessary. We've asked for immediate change after fatalities before. This isn't the first time.
 But I will say that this is the most comprehensive response that I have seen. It includes community-driven needs and priorities as well as explicit needs that were laid out in the Vision Zero action plan that include speed reductions and infrastructure changes that have been sped forward.
 That's something to applaud PBOT for responding so quickly. And I also want to say thank you to council for funding the proactive request that PBOT had for funding infrastructure changes on Outer Halsey during the fall budget bump. That's a really good example of seeing that a street needs changes and putting the money forward before tragedy happens. And so I just encourage us to continue to look at ways to do that as well.
 So I just want to say to use this chance to fund a community-driven request that will support the suite of short-term and needed speed reduction and safety actions that have been proposed, this is certainly not the permanent change we need, but it's a desperately needed start for outer division to no longer be an emergency. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Hi. My name is Doug Klotz. I'm one of the founders of Oregon Walks 25 years ago. And...
 been doing this for too long and with too little result unfortunately there's just so many so many issues throughout the city and we're hopefully we can get to them one at a time I support this this obviously and you know this is a start to all the other projects that Margie listed there
 It's also there's an opportunity to do a rogue diet or lane reconfiguration especially with the division Powell division transit project I mean I know we were we've been told that well we can't do it we can't take a lane to put transit in there maybe we could rethink that I mean that will break up the break up the crossing distance there could be islands between
 the transit and the auto lanes as well. I also want to speak to what Commissioner Fritz said about lighting. It's my impression that in the 80s, light standards for street lighting were lower to save energy, so all the street lights got dimmer. Then those lower standards maintained through changing from incandescent to mercury vapor. Then even as far as I know with LEDs, we're still just going for the same lower lighting standard. Meanwhile, car headlights are getting brighter.
 you know for for safety except that when you're driving on a two-way street the car lights are you could get in your eyes and you go housing your eyes to squint down and now you know they're fighting the lighting um and they say the lights are cut will cut off but you know every time somebody goes over a bump up now they're up in your eye or your eyes so i think we need to increase the lighting standards on streets like this and either you know put the lights
 Closer together you know one between every other Existing one or up the wattage on them with LEDs It shouldn't be nearly as much of an increase in electricity uses before So that's what I have to say. Thank you for acting so quickly and hopefully we can have an effector. Thank you Thank you all The last three I've show signed up our Paul Jeffrey Alan Kessler and Gerald fit appalling. Okay, come on up, please
 Well, sorry you had to wait. I didn't realize you were waiting to speak. And we usually let people with small children up early. Sorry. We were having trouble inquiring in the halls, though. Would you like to go first now? Oh, that would be great. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, thanks for the opportunity to speak. Put your name in the record. My name is Alan Kessler. Thank you. Thank you.
 The reason I'm here is I'm watching, I live near Division Street, inner Division Street, so I'm fortunate in that regard, but I'm watching the progress that PBOT is making. You've added rapid flashing beacons, you've made these incremental upgrades. Everybody in this room seems to admit that the problem is speeds are too fast and one thing I haven't heard today is crossing distances are way too large.
 And if speeds are fast and crossing distances are large, we can add all the education we want. But there are some people, no matter what the perception is, whether it's literacy or reading or sight or hearing, there are members of our community who don't have that perception.
 So we can't rely on that to get to zero. Anything else is getting to vision more than zero. If we want to fix the problem, we should fix the problem. And it's frustrating to watch money drip, drip, drip away on a quarter million dollar rapid flashing beacon here, a crosswalk there, when we know what we need to do is reduce throughput.
 And that's politically really difficult, I understand. But that's what Vision Zero is. It's admitting that we're making this trade-off. We're either going to accept that mortality is a cost of mobility...
 or we're not. And if we're not, then we need less mobility. So what I'd like to see you do with the $189,000 that's dedicated to words is buy traffic cones and narrow the lanes. And it's going to make people really mad, but it's also going to make people safe. If you rain in the lanes, make cars go slower, we saw with the hay bales that that works. And that's something you could do right now. You know...
 Commissioner Fish, I was listening to you in the hallway. Look at 810.180.9 of the ORS. There's an emergency provision. You can declare a 120-day reduced speed limit. You can put up cones. You can bring the speed limit down to 20 if you want to for 120 days. See how that works.
 the statute sort of A, you could probably play with it and make the speed limit 25 for another 120 days. You know, see if you get away with it. If you're willing to be bold and audacious, like you were talking about, use the provisions that you have right now. Declare an emergency speed limit. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, John. Good morning.
 My name is Gerald Fittipaldi. I'm a transportation safety advocate. I'd like to offer my condolences to Mr. Jung's family and also the, I'm sorry I don't know his name, but the other gentleman who died on 156th Street. I'd like to make an analogy between transportation and water. I think that safe drinking water is something that we take for granted in this country. It's not like that everywhere in the world.
 You can imagine if you go to another country, they don't have safe drinking water. It would be helpful to have signs and education. But ultimately, the root of the problem can be fixed. The root of the problem is the infrastructure. Maybe they have lead in the pipes or other problems that is causing the drinking water to be dangerous. And that's what I see here.
 is, okay, we have a Band-Aid, and we've got new people coming into the city. Let's put up signs in other languages. Fine. That's a good thing. Let's improve the lighting. But ultimately, to get deaths to zero, we need to overhaul the street. We need to reconfigure it, reduce lanes, add bus-only lanes. And really, four out of five of these deaths this year have been to pedestrians trying to get across the street.
 And so we need to keep that as a focus. We need to reduce the crossing distance. And one more point. Vision Zero is a concept that originated in Sweden. And the idea was, people are human, they're going to make mistakes. So even if you have all these things in place, they shouldn't die if they make a mistake. So the idea is to lower the speed, how can you get people to go slower,
 So that if they do something stupid, they've had a couple drinks, if they forgot to do something they're supposed to do, they shouldn't die for it. Just the same as we shouldn't die for drinking water that we forgot to filter or something like that. So thank you for your time, and I hope you pass this measure. Thank you very much. Good morning. Morning. My name is Paul Jeffrey. And everybody has said everything I wanted to say, but I have another thing. It's...
 It's ironic, or I guess it's not ironic, that we're all here for a street called Division Street. Streets should be centers of communities, and they should not be dividing communities up with many lanes of barriers to prevent you from getting from one side of the neighborhood to the other. So Division Street is actually...
 Like its name, it's dividing that community. And we need to make streets back into the centers of communities again. And I think part of that is to stop considering only car capacity and car needs when you look at a street and start considering and planning for people capacity and people needs. And to do that, you have to reallocate the space that you provide.
 have for cars and the space that you provide for people. Cars are really inefficient ways of getting people around. They're convenient for the people who have them, but they're really inefficient. We need to make space for buses, to make space for people to just walk around. Um,
 We need to change the way we think about streets and make them parts of the community again and not dividers of the community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Is that all the folks? We're signed up.
 okay any further discussion or questions before we take action mayor i just um i just a question for the commissioner in charge i just googled chapter 810 and um i'm obviously not the lawyer who understands that that code but could we ask uh the bureau and the city attorney just to give us a memo on the contours of chapter 810 absolutely all right any other discussion or follow-up items then let's please take a vote on the emergency ordinance novick
 I really appreciate the community members who talked to us and to the Bureau over the last couple of weeks. I appreciate everybody who came here today, many of whom have worked on, like Christy Finney-Dunn, have worked on these issues for many years.
 i also want to express my appreciation to the council for its willingness over the last few years to start spending some general fund money on transportation for many years the council basically did not do that and largely due to commissioner fritz's resolution authorizing half of one-time money to go to maintenance projects including transportation projects we made a significant commitment of general fund money to transportation in last year's budget
 We just made another commitment in the fall bump, and it's really encouraging this council is willing to allocate general fund contingency to do as much as we can as quickly as we can to end the carnage on outer provision. So I want to say how much I appreciate this council for something to change in philosophy of the allocation of general fund money to transportation. Thank you.
 Four years ago, I was thinking this was going to be my last council hearing, and things changed. And today it's 12-21. I mean, 21 of 12. One of my husband's favourite albums was 21-12. And so I appreciate everybody being here and everybody's attention to this crucially important carnage on our streets. Hi. Yes. I want to thank PBOT. I want to thank Steve and Charlie.
 I want to thank all of our community partners who have come out today, and I want to add my voice expressing my deepest condolences to the families that are grieving. Aye. Saltzman? I want to thank the mayor, Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Dernovic, for bringing forward this emergency request, and I'm very pleased to support it. We have to do something more than better than we're doing now. We are clearly failing at pedestrian safety, and we need to do a better job. Vision Zero is great, but...
 It's against the backdrop of record fatalities, so something clearly is not right. We need to fix it. The will in this room is here. The will in this council is here. And I believe it's on the next council as well. And we will find ways to make our environment safer for everybody who uses our roads. Thank you for being here today. Hi. Niels? Yes.
 Let me put a couple of things in context and talk about some things that maybe we as a community can do ahead and that I'm committed to when I'll be a private citizen and activist again. First, a long time ago, the city of Portland annexed East Portland, inheriting the city.
 More streets, we had some already in the city, that were designed by a previous generation of traffic engineers for automotive convenience and speed. That was the design philosophy that Division Street was built to. It was wrong.
 but it now falls to us to correct that wrong, not just on division. And that's been expressed very well today. Over the years that I've been involved in deliberations in this room, city councils, including this one, have understood that we are redesigning our city to
 to make the pedestrian and bicycle rider and transit rider the first class passenger, and that automotive convenience needs to be damped down in order to have the quality of life that we want to have. We all agree on those values, but we have a long way to go to make Vision Zero and those values real.
 There's some people doing great work, and Captain Krebs is here from the Traffic Division, and I want to say that when we convened that conference call the morning after these tragedies, Police Bureau of Peabody immediately started thinking about ways they could do something right away in addition to what they're already doing, and they're already doing good work, and I appreciate it. Obviously, we need to have more officers on patrol, and that will come, and they will need to be assigned to traffic, and that will be a decision for the mayor and
 police commissioner and for the council to make sure that we have enough people out there doing the work because if there's an officer on the street that's another way to stop something from happening just like a speed camera is this council went to the legislature and asked for that authority for speed cameras and i'm glad we did and it will make a difference it is making a difference good friends of mine's daughter was killed at that intersection at beaverton hillsdale highway where we installed this equipment and there are a lot more places where it needs to be installed
 And something that may have been forgotten but I want to call out is that Commissioner Novick, both in the deliberations about a street utility fee and about what our gas tax would be spent on, fought a long battle with some in the business community that said all this money should go to repaving.
 And people in this room, many of you as activists, argued that we should spend more on safety. And you made sure, Commissioner Novick, that a lot of the money that our voters approved is going to make our streets safer. Not enough, but it's a lot, and it's a good start.
 So this council, I want to celebrate the decision that we made about Foster because another case where the street was designed the wrong way and where the community had a good idea for how to make it better and where not everyone agreed and where there was some noise, but we as a council did the right thing.
 So let me talk about what might happen in the future, because I think there's more work that this coalition can do. Obviously, there is. One, Bike Loud, PDX, APANO, Division Midway, EPAP, Oregon Walks, you have work to do not just in this chamber. Let's make sure that our district attorneys are charging people who commit traffic violence with the most serious offense for which they can be charged.
 operating a motor vehicle is a privilege, not a right. And if you kill someone by exercising that privilege, you've committed a heinous crime. And we need to make sure that our partners in county government, including the district attorney,
 attorney share that philosophy so you have advocacy work in my opinion to do there let's make our lunch let's make sure our legislature gives us the tools to be the safe city that we want to be so getting rid of this ridiculous requirement to go to dad or mom or whatever you want to call ODOT and ask them to give us permission to make our streets safer is nuts and we need to get rid of it like we've gotten rid of a number of other state preemptions that were unhelpful
 and then we need to find more money. It will be expensive to fix those streets that were designed the wrong way. Some of it can be done inexpensively, as you've said well here today. Paint is cheap, but, of course, paint has to be enforced. So there's a need for officers and equipment to make sure that it's done right.
 Finally, I want to celebrate both, Steve, your commitment and our transportation director, who you hired, his commitment to Vision Zero. I know where Leah Treat's heart is on this issue, and I appreciate it, because you really do care about this, and you know that we as a community can and should get to Vision Zero. So this is a sad day with a deeply shared resolve among all of us here that we can make our city safer. Thank you very much. Hi. Hi.
 Let's take a two-minute recess and then come back to work. Thank you. Let us return to work. Okay, everyone. Thank you. We'll continue. We're going to take the first two items on the regular agenda, and then we're going to take item 1451 and the one we pulled from the consent calendar. So would you please read 1435 and S1436? Okay.
 1435, provide affordable housing through an inclusionary housing program. And S1436, provide affordable housing through an inclusionary housing program and update the multiple unit limited tax exemption program. These are second readings and final votes. Any comments before we vote? I know people will have comments when we do. Okay, a roll call, please, on 1435. Novick. First of all, I would like to thank
 Commissioner Saltzman and Martha Pellegrino and Tina Kotick in particular for their hard work getting the state preemption lifted on inclusionary housing because if that had not happened, we would not be able to act today.
 I'm extremely pleased that the city does have this new tool to address the issue of housing affordability. I really appreciate Shannon Callahan's work in the Fisher-Saltsman's office, Director Krieger's work, his staff's work.
 in bringing this to a conclusion. These are tough choices. We don't want to err in either direction because if we don't provide enough incentives or expect more than the market will bear in terms of the development of inclusionary housing, we run the risk of reducing overall housing production.
 And we need more housing production in order to have supply and demand work in our favor and have housing costs reduced or at least the increases stemmed across the spectrum.
 But if we demand too little or provide more incentives than are needed, then we run the risk of not being able to take full advantage of the hot housing market we're in now, which is when it's ideal to demand more and expect more. So I really appreciate the thoughtful comments of people in all walks of housing life throughout this process.
 I particularly want to extend my appreciation to Dr. Lisa Bates for taking me through the extensive deliberations that the expert committee had and explaining that at each step along the line, the committee used conservative assumptions correctly.
 about housing costs in order to come up with the ultimate recommendation. So I do trust that the Council will continue to monitor the inclusionary housing rules and calibrate them as seems appropriate given how the market responds. But it is a great honor to be part of this Council as we approve this program and I really hope that it will bear fruit beyond our wildest imaginings.
 Ms. Kishineva just said exactly what I wanted to say. I'll just add thank you to the community groups, the Welcome Home Coalition, the Community Alliance of Talents, Portland Tenants United, and everybody who's been working for this for so many years. I'm thinking of Commissioner Gretchen Kifori right now. Hi. This is going to be the last or second-to-last housing issue we take up this year.
 Dan, you've had a remarkable year, so I want to echo what my colleagues are saying first. Thank you for your leadership. And thanks to the Housing Bureau and the staff and everyone who worked on this. I'm proud to serve on a council that has prioritized investments in affordable housing and addressing housing crisis in our community. Martha Pellegrino was mentioned previously.
 We've had two farewell parties. I hope we have a few more because they're fun. But we have a great team at the Office of Government Relations, and they serve us well. I'm very appreciative of all the citizens who took time to come and testify and advocate, and those in particular who spent the last several sessions working to lift the preemption because the groundwork was laid many years ago when we fell short, but we built the momentum.
 I think the thing that we need to be very clear about today is that this is a new tool in our toolkit, but it does not solve the problem. It's just another tool. And combined with all the other actions that we've taken, we hope to make a difference. But inclusionary housing, if you look at the record around the country, in and of itself does not solve the housing crisis. But it does do something very important, which is it gives us information
 a mechanism for ensuring that affordable homes are dispersed in high opportunity areas throughout our community. And, Dan, you've said this and others have said it, and I just want to reiterate it. I hope that the fee-in-lieu provision is used sparingly because the genius of this is building affordable homes for the long term, for over 99 years, in high opportunity areas. And to put that in plain English –
 When my family looks to see what neighborhood we want to live in, we look at houses, we look at commercial districts, we look at transportation, we look at schools. Most low-income families don't have the opportunity to do that because they are priced out. So when we build affordable homes in high-quality, high-opportunity areas, we're welcoming everybody into our community, and that is vitally important.
 I'm pleased that we have linked the change in parking minimums to IZ, and I hope, Dan, that becomes a tool, an additional bartering chip to get more deeply affordable. I'm pleased that we're doing affordable homes at 80% of medium family income, but the crushing need in our community is 60% and below. And so we've got to be as creative as we can to buy down to get the deeply affordable minimums.
 And then I just want to say one other thing, because my chief of staff, Sonia Schmansky, had a lot of calls from housing advocates saying, where's Nick on this? We're worried that Nick is going south on inclusionary housing. And I think that there is a tendency, particularly maybe now because of the anxiety caused at the very top of our government in Washington all the way down,
 That when we have hearings and we ask questions and we engage people and we say, how do we make something better? And we ask the tough questions that we're somehow being unfaithful to the cause. And I hope we don't get into that rut of mistaking questions designed to get answers and improve things with being unfaithful to underlying values and principles. I have heard from a lot of people who are much smarter than I am about development that we may have this slightly out of whack.
 i don't know whether that's true or not but the one thing i'm not prepared to do is to extend the clock and let another 10 000 apartments get entitled before we get it right and already because of the february effective date we're going to see the biggest bull run in multi-family development get in under the gun under our deadline meaning they're not going to be covered by this and dan i will support next year a request
 from the general fund to add additional staff people if necessary to make sure that with all those entitled units, we have someone at the Bureau of Development Services negotiating voluntary inclusionary housing deals with those developers, because otherwise we're missing a historic opportunity. Asking tough questions does not mean you're not a supporter. It means you're a real supporter, because we're trying to get this right. And I want this to work. So my final comment is, if in six months or a year,
 we start seeing that development on the east side is 19 units or fewer, or we see in other places other indicators this isn't working, then I will join with my colleagues in bringing it back and asking tough questions about how do we make sure it works. Because if this doesn't work, then we have missed an opportunity. So back to just the thank yous. Thanks to everybody. Thank you, Kurt, and especially thanks to Dan Saltzman. Bye. Saltzman.
 Well, this is the culmination of this vote today, and I want to thank my colleagues for their support. It's really the culmination of a pretty incredible year on the inclusionary housing front, starting with the legislature's repeal of the ban in February, a miracle in and of itself, in a 35-day short session to tackle something that's been around for at least, I believe, 10 or 15 years.
 And then to take that repeal and be the first city in the state of Oregon to really come forward with the program to implement inclusionary housing, I'm very proud of, again, my colleagues in the city for doing this. And as well we should be. We should be doing this as soon as we can, and we are doing it as soon as we possibly can. Because the decline in affordability in our city for working families and all families has been swift and dramatic and has had a real human toll.
 Working parents are taking multiple bus routes, spending hours to get to their jobs. Kids are not able to complete the year, the school year, in the school they started in September. And families are scared that they may have to look for new housing on short notice. With this vote today, we are taking a critical step forward, assuring more affordable housing for Portlanders now and for future generations. Affordable housing will now be included in market rate developments throughout our city.
 And I believe that Portland will be better for the inclusive community we are creating through this policy. A policy this far-reaching does not come without many, many internal and external community partners. And the remainder of my speech is going to be to recognize all the people that have really helped get us to where we are today.
 I want to start out by recognizing some of the outstanding advocates that have been with us from the legislative session up until today. Opal Environmental Justice, Vivian Satterfield in particular, has done yeoman's work in organizing people to not only show up for last week's hearing, but to show up in Salem. And she was there herself for a lot of the hard work that led us to where we are today. I also wanted to...
 and she served on our panel of experts as well. Amanda Saul, Enterprise Community Development, also a panel member. Maggie Talmadge of the Coalition of Community of Color, and also a member of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, served on the panel of experts as well. I want to recognize them for their outstanding work. I'd like to note that at the forefront of our partners helping us with this policy is the private development community itself. Members of the development community,
 provided input and advice throughout the development of this policy. And while we might not agree with all aspects of the policy, and they may not agree with all aspects of the policy we're about to adopt, I truly believe that we all want this policy to work and to achieve more affordable housing options. And you can't do that without the development community. Thank you.
 So I'd specifically like to thank all of the panel members, the ones I've previously called out. But I also want to recognize Dyke Dame and Sarah Zahn, who served on the panel of experts, Greg Goodman as well. And Sarah and Dyke also serve on the Portland Housing Advisory Council. And I also want to recognize the development group, LOCUS, for the careful work and analysis they provided us in this policy. Our former governmental relations manager, Martha Pellegrino.
 who was absolutely instrumental in getting the city and other local governments giving us this ability to adopt inclusionary housing policies. Through her excellent lobbying in Salem, for her recruiting Senator Michael Dembrow, the sponsor of the bill who ensured its passage. And then I also want to recognize the entire team at the Planning and Sustainability Bureau, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, who prioritized this issue on an already full plate of comp plan work,
 Just specifically, Susan Anderson, Joe Zender, and Tyler Bump. I want to recognize Lauren King of the City Attorney's Office, who has worked on this issue as it was pending in the legislature at the bill stage and through the writing of the final policy before us today, the code. The team at the Bureau of Development Services, especially Matt Wickstrom and Robert Walker, who made sure the policy would be streamlined to work with the development process. And to Mayor Charlie Hales.
 who has always recognized the needs of Portlanders for safe and affordable housing and sponsored the zoning code portion of this program. And then certainly, last but not least, the team at the Portland Housing Bureau. Director Krieger, who from the moment he was in the interview process for this position, about a year and a half ago, I believe, said,
 believed we should adopt an inclusive housing program. And he comes from jurisdictions where it's been done in the past, and it really helps to have somebody who's been places where it's done. It really helps undercut a lot of the arguments about the world's going to fail or the world's going to end by adopting this policy. So I want to thank Director Krieger, Dory Van Bockel, who also worked on the code program. A big thanks to Matthew Chabold, the equity and policy manager at the Portland Housing Bureau,
 who worked hard to recognize and organize all the internal partners to the table crunch numbers burn the midnight oil to bring this policy forward and last but certainly not least to shannon callahan and brendan finn in my office shannon my senior housing policy advisor
 worked countless hours to make this work. From the moment it got signed into law by Governor Brown and even before that, she worked tirelessly with the Housing Bureau, with all the other players, planning sustainability, Bureau planning sustainability, to really make sure we could do this today and be at this point of taking this vote with this council this year.
 as commissioner fish noted we can't wait we have many many units already grandfathered into the process so the sooner we get this policy on the books voting today and implementation february 1st the sooner we're going to get more mixed-use neighborhoods and more affordable housing for everybody in the city so again thanks to shannon for all of our hard work on this and also to brendan fenn my chief of staff pleased to vote aye
 Well, I want to second all those thank yous and bravos for great work in both the community and the city. And I want to just add the same for my colleagues here. A year and a quarter ago, we declared a state of housing emergency, and we said there were some things we needed to get going on right away. And one was just this, going to the legislature and getting that approval for our ability to do our job here and create an inclusionary housing program.
 strategy. We've done a lot of other things too and I'm proud of that work. This is really important work and it's making a difference. As has been said, this may need to be tuned. Thank you.
 It may not be working perfectly in the marketplace, but the council will have the opportunity to do that tuning just as we've had to do with other public policies and requirements. But this is a case of doing the right thing, trying really hard to do it the right way, and focusing on the here and now. It's going to make a difference. It's going to make us a better city and a more just one. Thank you, Dan, for your leadership. This is a good piece of work in a day and a month in which we're bringing a lot of good things to a successful conclusion. Aye.
 Okay, let's vote on the second item, 1436. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, we're going to try to take a couple more items before I have to leave for a speaking engagement, and then Commissioner Saltzman will continue us. 1451, I want to do 1446 and try to do the pulled items. So let's do 1451 next, please.
 1451, initiate foreclosure sale on one property for the recovery of delinquent city liens placed against the property. I met with this team again yesterday. They're doing an outstanding job of carrying out this council's mandate to do something about zombie houses. And as you'll hear, there's only one house on the ledger today to deal with.
 because the speculators have gotten the word, and that is that we're serious about foreclosing on houses that are toxic for neighborhoods.
 where the city has become the involuntary property manager for people that are simply waiting for their land values to rise. So I want to commend this team and admonish my council colleagues to make sure that this keeps going, because sometimes in a bureaucracy things can just stop and no one will notice, except that if you talk to the people who live next door to these houses, they notice immediately.
 Thank you for your good work. Good morning. Good morning. Sarah Landis, City Auditor's Office. With me are Michael Liefeld, the Enforcement Program Manager at Bureau of Development Services, and Marco Maciel, the Foreclosure Program Manager in our office. As the mayor mentioned, this is the third list that we're bringing to council this year. There is only one property remaining on this list. We initially got a list of 14 properties from BDS.
 to consider for foreclosure of these. Many were in the process of being sold. Efforts were being made to repair some of the problems with the properties, or there were other mitigating circumstances for the owner that led us to a determination that foreclosure was not a good option at this time. We worked up case files and did analysis of the remaining four. Three of these were very recently removed from the list because of pending sales or lien payoffs, leaving one property remaining on the list.
 But we did commit to trying to bring a list to council every quarter, so decided that we would come with what we had. I'd like to stress here, though, that the process is working, that the increased attention and movement toward foreclosure has caused owners or lenders to take action on the properties in a large number of the cases. And I'll ask Mike Liefeld to walk through the specifics of the property on Vermont Street at this point. Good morning, Mike.
 Hello. Good morning. Mike Liefeld, Bureau of Development Services. The one remaining property is 0233 Southwest Vermont Street. This case is 17 years old. It originated in 1999 regarding property maintenance conditions for the structure. This case is unique in that it poses a safety danger. What we're going to get to on the next slide will show that. But we have liens totaling
 over $129,000. And the ownership is a private individual, Jan or Jan Katafias, and they're the legal owner on record with Multnomah County. So the conditions, and I'm sorry, the pictures, it's hard to capture pictures of all the conditions for structures of properties as a 5,000 square foot lot.
 We have safety issues in the front of the house where pedestrians would take entry to the front door. We have a collapsing porch roof that's been temporarily shored but is not nearly done in an appropriate manner. We have unsafe porch and entry stairs with gaping holes in them that somebody could fall through. We have just general overgrowth around the property.
 It's been vacant, according to our records, we believe the house has been vacant since 2010. It's located near a park in a school and we've had no contact from the property owner of record. So we cited violations back in 1999 and in 2008 we were working with the property owner at that time. Our city records indicate that they acknowledged the violations existed, yet they had some dispute over the liens and fines and the correction action we were asking them to take.
 We've had no response since 2008 from the property owner. The property continues to deteriorate. In reviewing the property, the property taxes are paid current and the water service is active. So this is unique for a vacant home, even though we believe it to be vacant. Okay.
 We have record in the lien accounting system that a buyer contacted the city in 2015 regarding a potential sale of the property. And that individual indicated that the property was a total tear down, thus providing some more information on the conditions of the property. A title company also contacted the city in 2016 regarding a potential sale. So even though we haven't been contacted by the property owner, there appears to be some interest in the property.
 Regarding this process, we had no response to the official notice of pending foreclosure. We have reached out to every known address, phone number on record for the individual. We've even contacted an associate of the property owner and asking them to pass along information, and that individual did commit to getting that information to the property owner. We've still had no response. So we feel that we're in a position where we do need to take this action today. Thank you.
 Do we know that the property owner paid the property, that person themselves paid the property tax? We do not. No, we did not verify with the county who made those payments.
 And I noticed you've passed around an emergency clause. If we did not add the emergency clause and we voted on it next week, of course we won't be here past the new year, would the property owner at that point have the option of showing up and saying, wait, wait, I've sold it or something? No.
 Property owner has the option to do that any time, regardless of when we vote, up until the date of the foreclosure sale. So we could vote today, and they would have that right to come and pay off their liens up until the date of the foreclosure sale, or you could vote today.
 weeks time and they would still have that same amount of time. And when would we anticipate the foreclosure sale to happen? I believe the Treasurer is working on getting foreclosure sales started in early 2017. I would guess that this would not be among the first chosen. It would be the ones that were voted on in June. So I would guess it would be a number of months before we could anticipate that.
 anticipate a sale on this property. So then I'm comfortable if everybody else is adding the emergency clause, which says section 2, the council declares that an emergency exists in order that the current council may act on the foreclosure. Therefore, this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage by the council. Great. Would somebody like to second that? I'll second it. Thank you. Thank you.
 And if we could just have the legislative intent to direct the Treasurer to have it in the second offering rather than the very first one, because I do think that this is obviously a very serious thing that we're doing. Right. And so even though you've already given them multiple last chances, I think that would make me feel more comfortable adding the emergency. Thank you. I believe she's here today and has heard your preference on that for sure. Haku, anything to add? No.
 Any other questions for our crack team that is solving this problem? Thank you so much. We have this working group that, again, met yesterday, and it includes a woman who lives next door to one of these houses, and she's been a great reminder of why we're doing this. So thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? I think I had a sign-up sheet. Someone's going out for it. But if anybody wants to speak to this, Mr. Antwistle. Thank you all very much. Let's have testimony, please. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Council, Mayor. My name is Stephen Entwistle. I'm a whistleblower for the less fortunate. And the foreclosure process, I went through a foreclosure process. I know what that's like, and it's not fun. And when you talk affordable housing, and when Dan Saltzman says, Commissioner Saltzman, excuse me, says everybody is going to get housing.
 It'll help everybody. I'm thinking affordable housing starts at $60,000. What about the people that make zero to $60,000? They're not included in any of the affordable housing that you've mentioned today and yesterday and previous. We need to not keep fooling the public that affordable housing is something that includes everybody because it doesn't. And the people that you're trying to ignore are not going away.
 I'm not going away. I was born here. I'm not going anywhere, regardless of how tough things get. And you're not going to trap me. I'll sleep under a tree if I have to. But I'm staying here. I was born here. This is my home. Okay? I lost my house. Affordable housing should include everybody, not just people that make $60,000 and above. That doesn't include me. That doesn't include thousands of people that are on the street right now. And when you say everybody,
 That's intellectual dishonesty. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? So let's take action on the emergency clause first, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Schultzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. And on the ordinance as amended? Novick?
 Aye. Prince. Well, thank you, Mayor Hales. This is another thing that you've started, and you're sending us off with the program in good shape, and I do commit to continuing to ask about it in the next term. Aye. Miss. Aye. Holtzman. Good work, Mayor Hales. Aye. Hales.
 i re-learned about this problem as you all know by going on a ride along with our east precinct officers and just saw the appalling situation that some of our neighbors live with this actually is government doing its job and doing it the right way and really making a difference thank you all aye okay let's take one more item before i have to leave and that is let's take a second reading vote on 1446.
 1446, the LID creation. 1446, create a local improvement district to construct park improvements in the Portland Open Space Sequence Local Improvement District in partnership with the Halperin Landscape Conservancy. So we further amended this last time, and I think we're ready to vote, unless there's any questions. Let's take a vote then, please. Novick.
 As always, I appreciate Andrea, Abby, and everybody from the Conservancy as well. And I'm glad that everybody's going to have to pay into it, including the vast majority of the property owners who are choosing to pay into it. So thank you very much. I made my comments last week. I'll just say that I'm proud to live in a city where Lawrence Halperin designed his great masterwork.
 And I'm grateful for the partnership of the Halpern Landscape Conservancy because everything we do in this city depends on strong partnerships, and this is a good one. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I appreciate everything that's happening here. I will abstain from this vote because my family does own property that will be assessed and will be paying into the local improvement district.
 So there's probably not a real conflict, but I just feel to be above and beyond any question, I will abstain from this vote. But I'm very excited about this LID being formed and these fountains being preserved.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. To you and your family members and to other people who've stepped up to voluntarily do the right thing for making a great place even better, Karen, thank you for being so resolute in working with our staff and getting this good thing for some of the best public spaces in the country put into nice repair. Aye. Okay, Dan. So, uh...
 We want to take the poll item, 1429? Yes. Why don't you read that? 1429, provide one-month city-paid health insurance to certain staff of outgoing elected officials. Okay, is there anybody making a presentation? Okay, I think it's pretty... Who was it polled by? We need to amend it. Oh, we need to amend it. Right, they're updating Exhibit 1. I'll move the amendment. A second, and then now would you please tell me what it is? Does anybody...
 Tell me what that amendment is. Here we go. Hi, Council. Rachel Wiggins, Mayor's Office. The amendment removes one name that was listed of the staff who are being granted an extra month of benefits. And this is specifically for staff who are remaining until December 31st and don't have the opportunity to receive health care from their potential new employers right away.
 Thank you. Anybody wish to testify on this? Okay. Mr. Walsh. Mr. Walsh, come on up. Well, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We support this staff. We really like staff. We're not particularly like you, but we like staff. Our understanding is that these are people that are going to continue for the rest of the year, and that they have some services and have some stuff to wrap up.
 And we're going to continue with their medical expenses as they were doing prior to the exit of the commissioner and the mayor. I presume that's reasonable. Now, we did have a question about you guys. Did that include Commissioner Novick and the mayor? That excites us because we like staff and we don't like you. Sorry to tell you that.
 But again, we really like staff. We appreciate the hard work. One time when I was very young, I was an intern in California for an assemblyman, and I know how hard staff works. I know the hours they put in, and I try to be really nice to staff. Not so nice to you, but really nice to staff. And I will continue to do that into the year, and we wish the ones that are leaving good stead
 I hope they all have employment, and some of them that we know personally, we talk to, and actually suggested some people that they might talk to. So we, again, I'm going to tell you one more time and then shut up because I'm losing my voice totally. We like staff, and you should honor them and do this and be proud of what you do because if you're honoring your staff, you elevate yourself also. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Johnson?
 Thank you. I'm always nice about staff. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. You know, this is, as Mr. Walsh pointed out, the work of staff is important and highly valued, even though we know that there is at least, not necessarily an applicable staff person, but staff at the city sometimes means you make $80,000 a year. It's a great raise if you used to be a $20-something-thousand-dollar state senator and then you become an $80,000 mayoral staff person. But the worst part of this is that
 this conversation probably could not happen in Canada, in the United Kingdom, in the Scandinavian countries, in the single-payer civilized democracies. So while it's important that we support the staff workers and that they have coverage in the private market, it's a great time to remember that on the Internet, hcao.org.au,
 even though we have reason to be disillusioned about the incoming presidential administration, maybe they'll let the states run wild and maybe some federal money will flow. So hopefully four years from now, or even two years when the next election cycle is coming around, we won't have to have a special agenda item to help somebody have health care coverage. We can have a real Oregon single-payer health care market. Hopefully Vermont and Colorado can move forward similarly. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Please call the roll, Colin.
 On the amendment? Oh, yeah, on the amendment. Novick? Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Amendment's adopted. Now on the ordinance. Novick?
 first of all as an aside mr bridge crane johnson i've suggested to pibad what happened on my watch but i've suggested to them that they give everybody adequate notice when the bridge crane is actually first used so that everybody who cares about the bridge crane will be able to see it in operation uh mayor hales and i really appreciate those of our staff who have been willing to stay on and continue to do their work till the bitter end that i really appreciate this gesture to make their lives a little easier aye
 Well, we're learning as we go along, and we're certainly doing things that help staff, because as Mr Walsh correctly points out, the staff do a fantastic job. And so this year, for the first time, the City Budget Office allocated transition costs just in case. And now we're going one step further by making it very clear that we want our staff to be able to do that.
 that will be moving to other jobs, hopefully, to be having this one month of paid health insurance. They will still pay the 5% themselves, and the total cost is a little over $10,000. So it's well within the existing budgets of the Mayor's Office and Commissioner Novick's Office to pay this cost. No extra money is being allocated for it. Thank you.
 Yes. I'm glad someone testifying called out the importance of the staff that we have in this city. And I want to just acknowledge the public service. We're going to be doing a lot of goodbyes and thank yous today and right up through the end of the year. But the people that choose to work in this building as staff people and who work very long hours for very little glory,
 are the people that make this system of government work. And if the folks in each of the offices are not talking to each other or not building relationships, it makes it very hard for us to do our work. And we've had some terrific people working in this building, in the mayor's office, and in Steve's office, and I just want to applaud them for their public service. Hi. Well, I think this is a very compassionate thing to do for people
 who we all appreciate, both in Commissioner Novick's office and in Mayor Hale's office, and I'm pleased to support it. Aye. Okay, the ordinance is adopted. I'm going to propose that we work until 1230 and then break for an hour and come back at 130 to finish our morning agenda and then bleed into the afternoon. Are we okay with that? Okay, so I guess we're on now. Item 1437? Approves settlement of claims with Level 3 Communications LLC for past due franchise fees. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you for that very succinct presentation. I move the ordinance. You've got some good news for us, I think. Well, you're welcome. I'm Thomas Lanham with the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, and before you today is a settlement agreement resolving franchise fee and performance disputes with Level 3 Communications, LLC, and subsidiary companies. In 1999, City Council granted Level 3 a franchise to provide telecommunications services.
 In 2006, the City initiated an audit of Level 3's franchise fee payments. The City's audit identified irregularities in the amount and methodologies in Level 3's franchise fee payments. Level 3 disputed the claims. In 2008, the City Council passed a resolution authorizing the City Attorney's Office to file suit against Level 3 to recover past due franchise fees. During the process of preparing litigation, the City identified further issues regarding use of conduit for fiber optic cable.
 The parties have agreed upon a global settlement before you today to resolve these disputes. The global settlement has four key components. First, Level 3 has agreed to a one-time payment of $2.75 million. Second, Level 3 and the city have agreed upon the terms and conditions for a renewal franchise for Level 3, including the lines of revenue that were in dispute in the past. Level 3 has been making franchise fee payments pursuant to this methodology since 2013.
 and will continue to do so. This franchise ordinance will come before the council sometime next month. Third, Level 3 and the City have reached an agreement for the City's use of approximately 58,000 feet of Level 3 conduit that extends from the Steel Bridge south to Clackamas County. Fourth and finally, Level 3 and the City have agreed that the City will grant permission to Level 3 to use City conduit over the Steel Bridge.
 And Level 3 will, in exchange, allow the city to use Level 3's conduit under the Willamette River just south of the Fremont Bridge. And BTS will administer both of these conduit use agreements. I'd like to thank the City Attorney's Office, and in particular Ben Walters, the Office for Community Technology, and Jennifer Lee, and the Bureau of Technology Services and Rob Durkin for their hard work on the city's behalf in securing this settlement. And I'd also like to thank Mr. Steve Gordon of Level 3 who is here today.
 And staff are here and available to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Any questions? Okay, thanks. Anybody wish to testify on this? Okay, seeing none, it is an emergency ordinance, so please call the roll. No, thank you. Thank you, Thomas. Hi. Ritz. One of the most interesting assignments for my first term was when I was assigned to lead the office for
 of cable communications and franchise management. It took me six months to learn the name. And one of the things they did, or they still do now that the Office for Community Technology, is make sure that the franchise companies are paying their fair share in what they agreed to. So it was always...
 Obviously, in this case too, it's very helpful to have an extra $2.75 million. I certainly join in the thanks to Jennifer Lee and Ann Goldenberg from the Office of Community Technology and Ben Walters, not only for this but for other duties as assigned regarding the sign downstairs. Aye. This is my favorite sentence in the agreement. The parties enter into the settlement agreement freely, knowingly, and voluntarily.
 boy would the world be a better place if that happened with greater frequency uh thanks to our legal team and thanks to the bureau for their work in bringing this to a satisfactory conclusion thank you sir for joining us today at this hearing probably less drama than you expected and i'm pleased to vote aye uh this sounds like a great settlement i particularly appreciate the sharing respective sharing of conduit uh the city and level three that seems like a very uh
 Good deal, and a nice part of the settlement. Aye. Okay, it's ordinances approved. We'll move now to 1438. Authorize an agreement with Selco Partnership, doing business as Verizon Wireless, to provide wireless services for a three-year contractual total not to exceed $7,500,000. Okay.
 Afternoon. Afternoon, Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. The Bureau of Technology Services is responsible for the support and upkeep of the city's communication systems and bureaus rely on cell phones for routine emergency communications. Specifically, BTS provides and supports 2,822 cell phones, 1,115 air cards, and 717 iPads.
 As allowed for in City Code 5.33, the City may participate in a permissive cooperative procurement after posting a public notice of intent to use a cooperative contract. A notice was posted on August 19, 2016, and no responses were received.
 You have before you a procurement report recommending the authorization of a cooperative contract to Selco Partnership, DBA, Verizon Wireless for a not-to-exceed amount of $7,500,000. I will turn this back over to counsel if you have any questions. And Beth Fox, the communications manager, is here to answer questions. Any questions? Okay. Seeing none, thank you. Anybody wish to testify on this item? Okay. This is also an emergency ordinance, so please call the roll. Move it.
 Aye. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay, the ordinance is approved. 1439...
 approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements and authorize the use of the alternative contract contracting method of construction manager general contractor all in connection with the try on Creek wastewater treatment plant head works project for an estimated amount of $54,000,000 mr. Fish Mr. President and colleagues we set this over last week because of a very busy agenda. I
 The Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, located where Tryon Creek enters the Willamette River, was constructed in 1964 and expanded in 1976. It's owned and operated by the City of Portland under an agreement with the City of Lake Oswego. In 2015, the Tryon Creek Treatment Plant treated 2 billion gallons of wastewater.
 The plant provides critical treatment service for an area that includes the City of Portland, the City of Lake Oswego, and unincorporated areas of both Clackamas and Multnomah Counties. Here with more details about this important effort are BES engineers Jim Brown and Scott Gibson and Larry Pallatt, Procurement Manager with the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services Procurement Division. Scott, take it away. Thank you, Mr. Commissioner. Good afternoon, City Council.
 For the record, my name is Scott Gibson. I'm a principal engineer with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and with me is Jim Brown, who's your project manager for this effort, and Larry Platt, procurement supervisor from purchasing. We're here today to request council approval for an ordinance to authorize an exemption from competitive bidding and to utilize the construction method of construction manager, general contractor, and all in connection with the Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant Headworks Project.
 Our presentation is very short, about seven minutes, but we have two parts. First, Jim will give you a description of the project. Then Larry will walk us through the procurement implications and details. And before I turn it over to Jim, I have a couple things I want to mention. First, this project is in very early stages of development. We have started the design, but we're in the zero to 10 percent, and we're examining options. So we expect it to evolve quickly.
 And second, we're here today to ask for the use of the alternate project delivery method because we believe it will help us come up with the right project for the city. The use of the CMGC method will help us make the best decisions possible because we'll be allowed to work more closely with our construction contractor, and we're looking forward to getting through several important decisions with them. And finally, our schedules are developed to have this contractor on board at an early point, and so we appreciate your attention.
 at a point where they can be most beneficial to the design. So we appreciate time on busy schedules and calendars. So I'll turn it over to Jim. Good afternoon, members of council. I'm Jim.
 The Tron Creek wastewater treatment plant was constructed in 1964, expanded in 1976, and is located in the city of Lake Oswego. The plant is owned and operated by the city of Portland under an agreement with the city of Lake Oswego, and the service area includes areas of the city of Portland, city of Lake Oswego, and unincorporated areas of both Clackamas and Multnomah County. Next slide. Got it.
 This photograph shows the plant location with downtown Lake Oswego and Oswego Lake in the background. In 2014, BES completed the Triune Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant Facilities Plan, an engineering planning document that identified improvements required to ensure that the plant continues to meet BES levels of service and regulatory requirements for the next 30 years. The Headworks Project was one of the projects identified in the 2014 Facilities Plan.
 The purpose of the headworks project is to replace aging equipment in open air treatment plant process areas with new equipment in enclosed process areas to allow for the capture and treatment of odorous air. The project will increase plant peak treatment capacity and improve plant electrical redundancy and reliability. Additionally, the new headworks location at a higher elevation will allow for gravity flow through the plant with collection system modifications.
 The 2014 facilities plan recommended that BES evaluate these collection system modifications during the headwork project pre-design. These photographs show the location of the existing Tryon Creek interceptor sewer, where it is located above ground in the lower section of Tryon Creek. Modifications to the collection system to allow gravity flow through the plant will also allow BES to remove these above ground sections of the Tryon Creek interceptor.
 A preliminary analysis has been completed by the project consulting team, and at this stage it appears that horizontal directional drilling replacement of the lower 2,500 feet of the Tryon Creek Interceptor is a viable alternative that could provide significant long-term benefits. So essentially it will be drilled underneath the forest? Yes, that's correct. And not in the riverbed anymore? It would be drilled underneath much deeper ground in hard rock, not under the riverbed at all. Fabulous. Thank you.
 The scope of pre-construction services to be provided by the CMGC contractor will include both technical and estimating services from a contractor experienced in horizontal directional drilling and treatment plant construction to allow the project team to select an alternative with a clearer understanding of costs. The current project budget estimate to complete varies with the collection system alternative.
 With replacement of the Tryon Creek Interceptor, the low level of confidence project construction cost estimate is $54 million. The project design and pre-design and design efforts will continue through autumn 2018, with construction scheduled from early 2019 to autumn 2021. Now I'll turn the presentation over to Larry Pallad of Procurement Services. Good morning, Council.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services, in conjunction with Procurement Services, is requesting an exemption from the low-bid competitive process used in most standard construction projects. The ordinance requests approval to use the Construction Manager General Contractor, abbreviated as CMGC, method of construction.
 of competitive bidding. This is still a competitive process which engages the constructing contractor significantly earlier in the project development while design documents are still being developed, and it encourages owner-designer-constructor collaboration. This process allows the constructing contractor to have usable input into the document development and bring to light potential problems and solutions earlier in the process in order to essentially design them out of the resulting project.
 This process does not discourage competition nor encourage favoritism. The exemption being requested allows the City to engage in a competitive bidding process authorized under ORS 279.335 and Portland City Code 5.34 and pursue a CMGC competitive bidding process. The Council, through its Bureau of Environmental Services, is required to make certain findings in support of using this competitive process. These findings are listed in the body of the ordinance.
 And the city attorney's office and procurement services have determined that these findings have been met and the project is available to be approved for CMGC process. The CMGC process generally allows the city to increase participation of disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business certified contractors and subcontractors as the city is negotiating both its guaranteed maximum price and other attributes of the resulting contract as the project is being developed.
 Our current community benefit plan goals are in disadvantaged minority women, emerging small business contractor utilization, 22% of hard construction costs apportioned essentially as follows, 12% minority, 5% women, and 5% emerging small business.
 Apprentice workers, 20% apprentice requirement, 31% diversity goal, apportioned as follows, 22% minority, 9% women. Journeyman level workers, apportioned as follows, 28% workforce diversity and 22% minority, 6% women.
 Recent projects completed under this type of process have achieved the following results. The Portland Bureau of Transportation Streetcar Loop, 24 percent disadvantaged minority women in emergency small business subcontractor participation, 33.57 percent minority work hours, 9.85 percent women work hours, PBOT Southwest Moody Interchange, 31.24 percent
 I'm going to use the abbreviation, DMWESB subcontractor participation. Portland Parks and Recreation, Gateway Park, 81% DMWESB participation, including a minority-owned prime contractor. And Lewitt View Park, 82% DMWESB with Stacy and Whitbeck as the prime and Raymoor Construction as a minority partner.
 If there's any further questions concerning the process, I'd be happy to answer them. Any questions? I don't have any questions about the construction. I'm actually really interested in this particular project, so could I ask in the new year if I could get maybe a half-hour briefing with just knowing how it's going to be done? Yes. Thank you very much. Happy to do that. Thank you all. Anybody wish to testify on this? Scott, stay here for one sec just before you go. Colleagues,
 This is our last council meeting of the year, and the new mayor is going to come in and make bureau assignments.
 I want to just acknowledge the work that Scott Gibson has done and a change that we've seen over the last couple of years, which is he's a more frequent visitor to us because we changed our rules and asked that more things come to the regular agenda. And I actually have had a little pushback from time to time, Scott, from my colleagues, wondering did we err maybe too far the other way on some things, particularly when we have crowded agendas.
 But you have really perfected this exercise of coming and presenting complicated matters. Obviously, today is a huge undertaking, but you give us the same effort when it's a $500,000 change order. And I just want to thank you for the way you've embraced the council directive. And I know you can't go anywhere now without being recognized.
 Because John Deavy's off it. Yeah. But we appreciate your good work and your service. Thank you, Mr. President. And it's been an honor for me to work with you. Thank you. Thank you. Did you want to propose an emergency? Mr. President, I wonder if the council would entertain an emergency clause.
 We're just seeking an exemption, and there will be lots of other decision points. If we decide it today, then it won't be decided by a new council that would have to be brought up to speed. And there is a sense of urgency, at least, to getting this exemption. So I would ask the council if they would entertain a motion to slap an emergency clause. Second. Okay, moved and seconded. Please call the roll on emergency clause. Did we have the language for that? No.
 I think as Commissioner Fish just articulated, the critical aspect of this capital project, the sooner the better. Thank you. Novick? Aye. I co-founded the Triune Creek Watershed Council. I'm probably one of the only people on the council who's kind of trekked around by those pipes. So I'm going to be very interested, whoever is the next commissioner or the remaining commissioner of environmental services, to hear what progress he's made in 25 years. Aye. Aye.
 Commissioner, we will get you more than a 30-minute briefing if you like because you have a long history in that area. And this is an exciting project, and we are committed to getting it right. Aye. Holtzman. Aye. Okay. Oh, that was on the emergency club. Okay. So now on the ordinance itself. Novick. I want to second Commissioner Fish's comments about Scott Gibson. I really appreciated his work and his crisp, clear presentations over the past few years. Aye. Okay.
 And I may have been one of those in the past who has been wondering about pulling things to the regular agenda. And I have been proven wrong on every occasion because now, thanks to your good work explaining things, people understand why we've got these really huge projects with large numbers in them. And you can't buy trust, you have to earn it. So thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your leadership. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, Jim Brown, Scott Gibson, and Larry Pellett for your excellent presentation. Hi. Well, I know this is a critical capital project. It's been a long time in the coming, often. I know back when I was in charge of BES, we were having conversations with the city of Lake Oswego and others about getting this project going. So I'm happy that it's really finally at the point we're ready to design and construct it. So good work, Commissioner Fish and Bureau of Environmental Services. Hi. Hi.
 Okay, the ordinance is adopted and we are adjourned until we'll reconvene at 1.30. Thank you. I'm listening to it. Good, good. No, I think it's going well. I think it's going well. If there's a guy. Yeah, if there's a guy. Okay, ready? Ready?
 Okay, Council will return to order. I believe we're at item number 1440. Is that correct, Carla? Correct. Okay, if you'd read that one, we'll proceed. 1440, clarify definitions, administrative authority, and make housekeeping changes to the transient lodgings tax code. This is the second reading and vote. Any further comments? Okay, let's take a roll call vote, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you for your continuing good work and...
 ongoing updating of these regulations. Aye. Yes. Aye. Nails. Time for that favorite quote about how taxation is the art of extracting feathers from the goose with the least amount of honking. Did she make that up or did somebody else do that? Oh, it's a French finance minister from like 200 years ago. Still true. Yeah, 300 years ago. I will ask my half-French daughter-in-law about that. 1441. 1441.
 amend Tourism Improvement District Code to update definitions and change the due dates and delinquency dates to match those in the transient lodging tax code. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Namaste. It's been a pleasure. Thank you. Aye. Okay, 1442. Okay.
 authorize the submittal of a boundary change request to the state of Oregon to add 0.92 acres to the East Portland Enterprise Zone. Good afternoon. Come on up. Sorry you had to wait a while. I know you were here this morning, but thank you for being here. It's very interesting. That's right. It's always interesting in here. Good afternoon and welcome. Thank you. And then I just have to... Yeah, okay.
 Okay, whoever's going to start us off, tell us about this tasty expansion of the enterprise. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and city commissioners. My name is Pam Neal, and I am the interim economic development manager at the Portland Development Commission.
 We are here today to request that City Council authorize a submittal of an Enterprise Zone boundary change request to the State of Oregon to add just under an acre to the East Portland Enterprise Zone. The property is located in the Central East Side, where Salt and Straw is considering a major expansion to their headquarters and food production facility.
 Salt and Straw is a local success story. They opened in 2011 as a food cart on Alberta and now have four brick-and-mortar locations in Portland, a nationwide delivery program, four locations in Los Angeles, and plans to expand to San Francisco.
 Not only are they interested in expanding their operations in Portland, they are also creating employment opportunities for our residents and eager to engage with us on growing opportunities for underrepresented populations. Here is a map of the proposed boundary amendment site. It's located adjacent to New Seasons and Olympia Provisions E-Zone projects.
 As a reminder, the E-Zone is a state of Oregon tax abatement program that exempts new capital investment for a period of five years. The E-Zone program has become one of our most effective economic development tools to encourage investment and job creation.
 On approximately a yearly basis, PDC is approached by companies to include new projects in the Enterprise Zone program. Examples of projects in the past include RENTRAC on Airport Way, the expansion of Jaguar Land Rover, and sites in the Central East Side that now house companies such as New Seasons, Olympia Provisions, and Simple Finance. Salt and Straw is planning a $2 million investment. The existing building and land will continue to be taxed.
 but the new value added to the building will be abated for a period of five years. This abatement will equal 1.5% of the new assessed property tax, which will equal approximately $32,000 per year for five years. Once that tax abatement period ends, the property will be fully taxed. The project will create 40 to 60 new jobs in Portland at the headquarters and food manufacturing facility.
 As part of the project, they will also create a food artisan incubator and workforce training program to support residents to get into positions in the growing food industry here in Portland. The company will discuss its expansion plans shortly and why Portland is their preferred location to grow its headquarters and manufacturing facilities. The statutory and policy requirements will be consistent with...
 with every other E-Zone project, but this company will sign a public benefits agreement to go above and beyond these requirements. Some of the public benefits that we agreed upon is a commitment to paying a minimum of $15 per hour for every employee, efforts to hire 50% of new hires from underrepresented populations, the creation of a food artisan incubator program to focus on inclusive entrepreneurship,
 Efforts to create flexibility in employee schedules and seek to hire employees at full-time versus part-time.
 and internships for youth, and community engagement around homelessness and addiction issues in the Central East Side and Portland in general. I'll just interrupt to ask a question. I really appreciate the commitment to as many full-time permanent jobs as possible. I'm wondering what you mean by flexibility in scheduling. So at this time, I'd like to introduce Kim Malik and Tyler from Salt and Straw to answer those type of questions. Thank you. Sorry to interrupt that.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Nice to have you here. It's our first city council meeting. It's exciting. Just put your name in the record. This is Kimberly Malik. Thank you.
 So for flexible scheduling, so we do offer full-time employment for most of the folks who work in our kitchens and our corporate headquarters, which this building represents. And in terms of flexible scheduling, we work with them to have days off so they can go to school or some have other responsibilities with family and
 So we work very diligently towards having flexible schedules for our staff, but also a set schedule so they know what their life will look like over the next month, two months, three months. That's what I was hoping to hear. Thank you very much. Yes, that's very important to us. Thank you.
 and over to me okay thank you well we are we are really excited to be here and i appreciate it i moved to portland back in 1996 and i was really struck by the community feel that i experienced here it was something that i don't think i've had in any other city that i've lived in
 for some reason I was struck by the idea in 1996 due to this this community feel that an ice cream shop would be a great way to reflect that and capture that and so fast forward to 2010 I'd been carrying around this crazy idea to open an ice cream shop and I was finally able to realize it I'm here on Alberta Street and you know when I first wrote my business plan I sent it in stupid
 in 2010 to banks and investors, and for some reason there wasn't a lot of money available at that time. So I didn't get any money from anyone, but I did get a lot of great feedback. And I can remember someone wrote up my business plan with red ink. It was covered in red ink. And the idea was to be a people-centered business with very generous benefits, taking care of the community, and working closely with local artisans. And he wrote, you can't do this. Do you think you're Starbucks? Okay.
 I wish I had saved it. I threw it away quickly because it was so terrifying to be doing this already and get that negative feedback. But we went on to start the company, and...
 We opened our first store in August, and by February we were able to offer health insurance to every employee who worked over 20 hours a week. The employees currently pay $25 a paycheck, and we pay the rest because we want it to be affordable. We have an extensive disability insurance program for our team, so if they're snowboarding and they get hurt, they can still eat and pay their rents.
 We have a paid parental leave program for three months for men and women who adopt or have children. We just added a great life insurance benefit. Every year we try to add a new benefit for our team and reinvest in them. On the community side, we do a lot of great partnerships that I'm really proud of. We do a partnership. This will be our fifth year with the local PTA nearest each of our schools to develop partnerships.
 An ice cream that the students come up with, Tyler does it, my cousin, and we donate the proceeds back to the local school. It's one of many that we are really proud to support in our local communities. I always say that a strong business can only exist as part of a strong community, and so those investments are critical to who we are.
 And then on the artisan side, you know, there's people like Charlie who started Woodblock Chocolate. I don't know if you've had it, but we were one of his first and largest customers. And so he's been able to grow with us and open a manufacturing facility and buy equipment and hire people. And we're so proud of that.
 So that's kind of that ripple effect that happens when we do well, those around us do well. That's our mission and our hope to do good. The funny thing I'll conclude by saying that as we come full circle here today, when I walked my business plan around and didn't get any money from anyone, there was one agency that did come forth to help us, and that was the PDC.
 and we got a $40,000 loan. We were short $40,000 to get our store open, and they gave us that loan. We paid it back in under a year. And, you know, I was really struck by...
 The $40,000 probably isn't a lot of money to most people, but they spent so much time going through that business plan with us and helping us kind of see what was around the next corner and where we should push forward and where we might be getting out of our skis a little bit. And that partnership was so helpful. And it's so cool to us to now be back here today at sort of this next phase in our growth as we look to open this facility, again in partnership with the local Portland community
 agency, and this partnership means a lot to us. So, you know, we are already in conversations and working on back-to-work programs with the United Way, Gateway to College. We're even in early talks with some prisons in California and Oregon to help use our training program as a way for people to enter the hospitality industry.
 And now being able to work with First Source and formalize that and take that forward is super exciting for our team. And then secondly, and with a very distinct focus on minorities and being able to bring that population with us.
 Secondly, this Art as an Incubator program is this idea that, you know, we saw this happen with woodblock chocolate. We've been through a lot the last five years and we've learned a lot. And could it be the case, we always wondered, that we would…
 work with two or three people every year and not only become their biggest customer so they have cash flow coming in, but we could help them with their business. So HR, food safety, all of the things that you need to get your business up and running. So we're working on a curriculum that we would share with them, and that's the definition of that program. So we are excited to have this partnership and support to be able to realize those dreams that we've had already. Tyler, anything you want to add? No.
 That was great. This is my cousin, Tyler. He makes all of the ice cream, so he's the one you really want to talk to. Yeah. I think the target is closing that gap between, you know, we have a large pool of people available, but most of them are, you know, a certain ethnicity and a certain age. And I think opening that up is one of the keys to all of this and working really closely with the PDCs.
 kind of the best way to go about that. That's great. I know everybody up here one time or another identifies their favorite salt and straw or favorite place, but I have a daughter who is at an age where she has about three or four jobs at a time, and she was a seasonal worker at the Alberta Street place, and so she was kind of my spy. And
 And I asked her about the experience, and you hire up a lot. You take extra people in the summer, and then you go back to your normal complement. And she said that as part of her orientation, she spent two weeks learning customer service, which I thought was really astonishing. In fact, she said in the other job she has in, like, service jobs –
 It doesn't even come close in terms of the training she gets. In fact, they think that she comes now with this skill set. So I told her, I started asking for more money. I mean, have you already trained? But that was...
 That really made an impression on her, the customer service piece, and about the ethic. And, you know, you have this value system around the customer is always, you know, you're always accommodating the customer. If someone doesn't like the ice cream, you do it again. But I have one bone to pick with you, which is as a proud father who wanted to go visit his daughter at that store, my wife and I planned a number of trips over the summer.
 But every time we got there, the line went around the corner of the block. And in my job, I can't cut a line, of course. So I had the choice of either waiting an hour or just going to the window and waving and embarrassing her. But she had a wonderful experience, and I think that training component was really very important. And if that's what you're doing with all your people and you're talking about bringing, say, disadvantaged people into the family and giving them those skills –
 Those are the skills you need to be successful in every job. I mean, those are the skills we're looking for as an employer. And in life, yeah. So congratulations. Well, I appreciate you saying that. It means the world to me. Casey is here.
 Casey Milligan is our director of operations, and she created that training program. Each of our employees last year had about 40 hours of training, each employee in the company. That included hospitality, leadership training, food safety, personal safety, insurance,
 matters around how to diffuse oppressive language if you experience it, a whole range of trainings that we felt would be good to invest in our team so that they would be great employees and so that they would be great citizens. And we kept getting feedback, like, you should really do something with this program. I mean, this is great. You're doing it for your people, but it would be great. And we were getting feedback.
 requests for different nonprofits if they could have access to it. And so Gacy was the one who said, couldn't we give this away? Could we give this away to populations who need this training in order to go on and do something in their lives? And she is the one who's been starting this work already. And not that these people would all necessarily come to work for us, but it would just be great for them in general. We are all in the customer service business. Yes. And we didn't get
 we don't get two weeks of training when we come in but I think you have a lot to teach us well you're very kind I'm really honored to have you say that thank you yeah I mean you are we hear a lot of people talk about being employee-centered companies but I'm just astounded at what you do for your employees that's it's really remarkable well thank you we're really honored to have them as our yeah we're happy you want to stay here in Portland and go important thank you questions
 Thank you all very much. Is there anyone that wanted to speak on this besides the folks that are here? Here, I move the resolution. There's someone who wants to speak. I'm sorry. So thank you. I could for just a moment. Sure. Would you please come to the microphone because otherwise the captionist can't hear you. We have to have you on the microphone so the captioners can hear you. Welcome. This way? Thank you. Just give us your name and please. My name is Ronald Brown, and I live in Portland. And just...
 I have three children of my own. They live in another city close by. It's called Gresham. And I don't live there. It's a complicated situation. But I own property in this county. And I was nearly evicted this morning in the other building down the street. And by the stroke of luck, is it, that I get seven days now where I have to be off of this property. Okay. And...
 That's what I've negotiated. It was going to be two days. And my options in this town... Okay, it's complicated trying to live here. I've lived here 20 years, and I've seen...
 Okay, great. Wonderful that your children work great three jobs because they're trying to just stay afloat right now in this economy that we have, this strange economy. You know, my kids, like your kids, are overachievers. You have to be to stay. They start looking at your grades when my daughter, excuse me. The point is, sir, that I think children should sleep well.
 12 hours a night or as many hours as they can because your brain is developing and it shouldn't be pressure on young people to achieve. This is global stuff I'm going to talk about here. The point is, it's profits. Everything is about a profit in this country. Well, what about sacred economy instead of how do we drive this world?
 Does anybody in this place have it, $1 that I could borrow, just borrow for an illustration? Go ahead and finish. Okay. Well, look at here. I'll draw it myself. There's the eagle. There's the almighty eagle. We've got the alpha and the omega. Look at it. Open it up and look at that baby. Omega. And there's Washington, and there's our dollar bill. Now, when it becomes...
 profits, meaning sacred economy. Check it out. There's a book by a guy named Charles Eisenstein and he's a genius. And he's willing, he's been here several times to these great places. Pay me something if you think it's worth it. If you don't think it's worth it, the place is packed. It's got an attraction like glue.
 If you haven't been to one of these, I invite every one of you people to see these places. When we start talking about prophets, well, the strangest thing that I thought, that I saw today. You used your time, so wrap up that thought, please. Well, I need a place to live just like other people. And I need a little bit of help to move from A to B because I was in a car wreck.
 And I can't lift over 15 pounds right now. Thank you so very much. You take care. Thank you. So anyone else to speak on this? Then I think we're ready to act on the resolution. Is that right? It's a resolution? Yes, please. No, thank you.
 So first of all, Kim and Tyler, I want to congratulate you on your total domination and Trip Advisor. I note that the Salt and Star in Alberta is ranked the number one dessert place in Portland, the one in Division, the number two dessert place in Portland, and the one in 23rd, the number three dessert place in Portland. So congratulations. And congratulations also on your incredible commitment to your employees and to the community. I had no idea until today what the scope of that was.
 That being said, I want to say for the record that I do not want my vote today to be considered taking a position in the rivalry between Salt-N-Straw and Ruby Jewel. Hi. Well, thank you very much for coming in.
 yet to see a Enterprise Zone project that's been before me that I didn't like. This one, actually, I love. I think this is... Thank you for an early holiday present for coming in to tell us about what good-hearted Portland is, because even though you've been here not all your life, obviously your heart has been in Portland all your life, and I hope you will continue to stay here. Thank you for growing your business here, and I know that people really appreciate full-time jobs.
 flexibility, the benefits, and many of those things do come with the enterprise zone. And it's very minor, I would say, tax abatement in relation to the investment that you're making, both in construction and in our community. So thank you very much. And thank you to Portland Development Commission staff for having been helpful, even during the worst recession of my lifetime. Aye. All I'll add is thank you for being a model small business in our backyard. And as you expand your empire to places like Los Angeles, we wish you the best of success.
 Hi. Saltzman. Yeah, this is a great investment for the city in Salt and Straw, and we appreciate Salt and Straw's investment in the people of the city of Portland, and I am sure that you are going to grow and prosper, not only nationally, but perhaps internationally, but we're really happy you're keeping your production here in Portland. Very honored for all the jobs you're creating. Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 anything else well this is a great success story so kim tyler congratulations um it's a success story for us as a city government because um this is exactly what the enterprise zone is supposed to do which is help entrepreneurs grow businesses in ways that pay off for everyone over time but we all participate in the short run and making sure that they they gain that altitude
 Another success, by the way, Kim is not a complainer, but she did note that Portland's permit process is a lot better than Los Angeles'.
 So our Bureau of Development Services and others should take pride in that. And, again, obviously you're such a socially responsible business. And, actually, this is something that Ms. Neal has focused on, that we're growing a sustainable economy here. There are thousands, tens of thousands of jobs. As your research, Pam, has pointed out that 49,000 jobs in – sorry, I got that number wrong, I think –
 anyway, tens of thousands of jobs in the sustainable sector, including the food cluster. And, you know, we have agriculture in this state that is healthy and tied to our local economy, and hopefully they prosper, and obviously the dairy farmers and others that you work with. You know, we are in our relationship with the rest of the state that Commissioner Saltzman in particular pays a lot of attention to. This is a way for us to be helpful neighbors to them.
 So this works on every level. And so for the central east side, what used to be called Produce Row, to now have breweries, local distilleries, and now Salt and Straw is full circle in a very wonderful way. So congratulations and good luck on the next chapter of your growth. Aye. Thank you. Okay. Let's move on to the next item on our agenda, which is 1443.
 Authorized contract with Kimley Horn Associates, Inc. to provide consultant services to develop a parking management plan, formerly performance-based parking management, not to exceed $205,835. Commissioner Novick. I'm pleased to present this contract, which is largely a contract to conduct a public process, and Chris Arms is here to answer any questions that you might have. Okay. Any questions about this item? Anyone here to speak on this item?
 If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. Novick? Thank you, Chris. Thanks to the whole parking team. Aye. Chris? Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for bringing this and for hiring a consultant to do a thorough public process. Aye. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 1444. Okay.
 Modify area parking permit program to create new permit area type for residential areas, expand provisions of the supplemental plan description, and integrate transportation demand management principles in accordance with the recommendations of the centers and corridors parking project. And I understand there's a proof substitute for us. Is that right? That is correct, Mayor. Last week,
 In my irrational parking exuberance, I tried to push through PBOT's citywide plan for local parking permit districts. This is a substitute ordinance. It's a proposal from PBOT, the Northwest District Association, and the Northwest Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee that would allow Northwest to explore more robust tools to better manage on-street parking in Zone M. Thank you.
 Primarily, they will be discussing capping the total number of permits, limiting the number of residential permits, and a surcharge on top of PBOT's cost recovery permit fee. As we've discussed several times in previous council hearings and work sessions, the parking management needs in Northwest exceed the tools currently available to them.
 These changes would only affect Northwest and are voluntary, meaning the SEC can choose to take advantage of these tools or not based on discussions committed to the outreach. I want to thank my colleagues for discussing the citywide policy last week. PBOT has more work to do, but we're pleased that we can propose these important tools from Northwest now. The work that folks do in Northwest will inform the citywide proposal and hopefully help answer some of the questions raised last week. I want to thank PBOT staff, Rick Michelson from the SAC and Karen Carlson from NWA for their diligence.
 and now I'll turn it over to Grant Moorhead for a brief presentation and to answer questions. Okay, come on up, please. It's a hard act to follow a salt in the straw, but I will do my best. Okay, Grant Moorhead, Bureau of Transportation. I'm here with Melissa McCready, our Parking Operations Division Manager. I do have a very brief presentation, although Commissioner Novick did a nice job summarizing the amended ordinance. So what I will do, a brief recap from last week. We heard most of the background information, so I won't –
 belabor those points. I do want to provide a little bit of context for Northwest Portland before providing you with a summary of the amended recommendations. So as we discussed at the hearing last week, the Area Parking Permit Program is a neighborhood initiated process. It allows neighborhoods to manage parking within their boundaries. We have 18 such areas. The program itself is designed for a very limited application addressing commuter parking. So our ability at PBOT to sort of tailor solutions to
 neighborhoods where the growth in parking is coming from within is very limited. So it's not something that's going to be applicable for the parking problems that we're starting to see as redevelopment occurs in mixed-use areas today. In northwest Portland, they are one of our 18 APP areas. They're known as Zone M. And just a little bit of statistics, we have about 4,500 parking spaces, on-street parking spaces, within the boundaries of Zone M that are signed for use by permit holders.
 And in the permit year that began in August, we've already issued over twice that number. We've already issued over 9,000 permits, and that number is likely to increase until we start over every year in July. So it will probably be above 10,000 by the time we get to the end of the year. This area is growing rapidly. There's 4,500 new jobs and 3,500 new households projected by 2035. So the need and the demand for parking permits is likely to increase annually over time.
 within zone m we don't require off-street parking with any development there is a parking management plan that addresses sort of systematically how we want to go about managing parking in the district it's been most recently updated in 2013 and in that update we created the council created a northwest parking stakeholder advisory committee which was empowered with the ability to guide implementation of the plan and this was concurrent with the rollout of the parking meter district that's now in place in northwest the members of the committee are
 Appointed by the Transportation Commissioner and the SAC serves as what we call the Area Parking Committee that tailors the parking permit program to that district. So they serve that function as well. So what we're asking today is that the Council approve an ordinance that would allow, as Commissioner Novick mentioned, additional limits on the number of permits that are issued and also a permit fee surcharge for the permits within Zone M.
 I want to highlight that this is modeled after a program that's underway in the Central East Side. It was authorized in 2013 by the council, and they are currently in the second year of their permit fee surcharge. Again, just to highlight, this is an ordinance that applies only to Zone M in Northwest. It does not amend the code, and these tools would not be available anywhere other than the Zone M APP area. Thank you. Okay. Questions? Then I think we need a motion to accept the substitute, and then we'll see if there's any testimony on that. So moved. Second. Second.
 Any further discussion on the motion to accept the substitute roll call on that please Okay, thank you both very much and is there anyone here who'd like to speak on the now substitute ordinance come on up, please Good afternoon I'm Rick Michaelson and I'm speaking to you today as the chair of the Northwest Portland stakeholders Advisory Committee on
 We're very pleased to see this ordinance advanced and giving us some additional tools to work with parking. We've been studying and studying, and now we can actually implement. I'm particularly pleased about three aspects that we're looking forward to. One is being able to have a surcharge so that we can actually generate some additional money for transportation demand management.
 And the second is to begin to require demand management programs for some of the larger employers and residential buildings. And the third is to be able to begin to spend some of the meter money on pedestrian improvements. It's our goal to decrease demand through making it easier to live without a car and not through requiring a reduction in cars, although we may still have some of that.
 So we're very pleased to be beginning these efforts. I think we'll begin to see some results in six months to a year, and we'll be happy to come back and let you know how it works in a year or two. Thank you. Thank you. Karen? Hi. Karen Carlson. I'm president of the NWDA. I wasn't here last week, but I understand Commissioner Fritz was asking, how does the NWDA feel about this?
 So by chance, we had a board meeting on Monday and had the opportunity to ask the board how they were feeling about this. And so I'm here, authorized by NWDA, to express our support to give the SAC these additional tools to be able to make changes to help control parking in the neighborhood. And I want to emphasize that, you know, NWDA and Knob Hill and others,
 that are representing the community are all on the parking sack. And the NWDA feels very good that they're represented on this parking sack. So in some ways, I would say we defer on how to do these changes. Our parking sack members, which I confess I'm one of, do go back to our board very frequently and report on what's been going on on the sack and the changes that are being proposed and discussions and
 And we've still had complete support from the board on these. And I assure you that if NWDA had a problem in the future, we would exercise our voice. So, there you go. Thank you very much both for your letter and for that explanation. I always like to hear it in the affirmative if the Neighborhood Association is supportive of something, even when I figured you would be because you're on other committees and such. So, thank you for making that very clear. You're welcome.
 Thank you both. Thanks very much other questions for them Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for handling this on your last council day. It's been many years of working together and Your efforts will be carried forward. It's probably not the last time the City Council of Portland We'll talk about parking in Northwest, but I hope it is but we'll see thank you giving it our best shot How about we just come back and report and you're all happy about what's happening about parking in Portland? Thank you others that like to speak on this item. I
 If not, it's now an emergency ordinance, thanks to the substitute, unless I'm misreading that. That's correct. So we should take a vote. No thank you.
 I want to thank Rick and Karen and all the folks in the SAC who've been working diligently and heroically on parking issues for so many years. I want to thank Eric and Nebel on my staff who's been working diligently on parking issues for the past several years. And I want to thank the entire parking team at PBOT. The whole Bureau has done a ton of work on a lot of different subjects in the last few years. Thank you.
 But I can't think of another aspect of the Bureau that has done so much work on so many things as the parking folks, from changing the way we deal with disabled parking placards to shifting from towing to booting for folks with a lot of unpaid parking tickets to implementing the Northwest Plan.
 And let's say, I'm forgetting at least one other important thing, but if I can't remember what it is. About six hours. So thank you very, very much. It's been a joy to work on part of the issues with Peabody.
 I was interrupting, Commissioner. I think we don't have time to list all the things you've got done in transportation. It's been absolutely a delight to watch you relish the challenges and embrace them and find so many solutions. So thank you for that, including thank you for listening last week and recognizing that we need a bit more time to look at these things citywide. Thank you, Rick Michelson. It was in the middle of December of 2012 that we were here setting into motion the Northwest District Parking Association.
 and then you came back early in 2013 and made it better. At this time, I'm very encouraged to hear that the neighborhood association and everybody else do see the committee working really well. Of course, I know you're going to continue to look at equity and making sure that a pricing system still allows people with lower incomes to be able to park their cars if they have to go to work elsewhere in them. So thank you for the knowledge of that. I would also like to thank the committee
 I need to acknowledge that last week we had a very strenuous discussion about, and I supported Commissioner Saltzman when he remarked about how he was concerned that new residents wouldn't necessarily be guaranteed parking, but existing residents would be, and I shared his concern. I then had the discussion with my Chief of Staff, Tim Crail, who pointed out this is exactly what we need to do in order to really let the market decide about whether new apartment buildings should have parking in them.
 If they knew up front that they were not going to be able to park within several blocks of their home, either people would choose not to live there, they would choose to live there if that's the kind of environment that they prefer, or else they'd go into it knowing that they're going to have a half-mile walk before they can pick up their car on somebody else's street.
 So, once again, I appreciate my staff who often come in with different opinions that help me think things through more clearly. I know that there's a lot of interest in this in the neighborhoods, and so I'm encouraged that we're going to be taking more time to look at it. And I will embrace that with some of the enthusiasm that you have been able to muster. I don't think anybody can quite match yours, Commissioner Novick. You know, Steve, in my eight years on the council, there are some issues that usually fill up these chambers with a lot of heat.
 And I'm not just talking about the reservoir issue. It includes Northwest parking and a whole host of things that bring out a lot of passion. Thank you for bringing this cluster of issues to a soft landing. And you and Charlie have given us a very strong foundation on which to move forward. And thanks to the neighborhood for being such good partners. Hi. Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick and PBOT, for bringing this forward. Thanks for Northwest for – well, you need this, I guess. You need these tools. So it's not like you're volunteering, but –
 Where we were last week where we had a much bigger net we were casting, it was nice that NWDA is willing to take these tools and run with them. I still have some fundamental concerns about the equity of people arriving last, not having the same access to privilege that comes with the permit system. I also...
 do believe there has to be a way to get people's garages back to storing cars rather than clutter and that needs to be something that i'm confident you guys can come up with some creative solutions on that and the only other thing i will harp upon that i mentioned last week too is just uh the share split of of the surcharge revenue i do think there's a possibility or should be some split with uh it should part of it should go to general transportation revenue and part of it should stay with the neighborhood
 but we'll visit that later. Well, thank you all, stewards of this neighborhood and stewards of good public policy and crafters of successful resolution of gnarly stuff, which is what this represents. So, Steve, thank you for your work on this, and I'm very pleased to see this good solution get done today along with some other long-term issues like the future of the city that we're all wrapping up together. Aye. Thank you.
 Okay. 1445. Amend city's marijuana business regulations. There's no further discussion. We're ready for a vote. Roll call, please. Aye. Thank you for the discussion last week and for the work session on November 8th. And thank you to my staff in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement who have been very diligent in responding to community concerns. And as the comments and concerns continue to come in, we have all realized that there's
 issues with other bureaus that get permits within development services included, as well as development services staff itself and the fire bureau. So those, whoever gets assigned to the utilities, to transportation, those kinds of questions next year can make the decisions, what
 what we do with this set of changes is saying that the marijuana retail license can be given before all the other permits have been signed off. And obviously, that's then the commissioners in charge of those life safety and other bureaus to decide how they're going to make sure that those things that are needed get done. So thank you very much, colleagues. More to come. These will continually be
 especially since the state regulations keep changing and the industry keeps growing and flourishing, we'll be coming back with multiple other changes, I'm sure, and I look forward to that time. Hi. Fritz? Commissioner Fritz, thank you for bringing forward this package so quickly following the work session, and I definitely think we're making progress and heading in the right direction. So thank you for your leadership. Hi. Altman? Well, I think this package, I particularly like the easing up on the retail licensing requirements.
 and all the other changes Commissioner Fritz just described. And I wanted to thank Matt Grum in my office for his hard work with Commissioner Fritz on these proposals. Hi. Could I just interrupt there? Thank you very much for mentioning Matt Grum. I need to thank Claire Adamsick and my staff who's led the work on this, who became the mother of a lovely baby boy on Saturday morning, or Saturday afternoon. His name is Sylvan. So I wanted to share that with everybody. And as usual, Claire has everything organized so that things go as planned.
 Can I just state a continuing objection? Every time you mention Matt and you compliment him, the head gets larger and larger. We deal with him 10 times a day. Can we put a lid on all this? He keeps doing good work. I have to watch out, yeah. He's a gem. He's a gem. He is. Well, speaking of another successful resolution of a gnarly issue, thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, let's move on then to 1447. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Safeway Pump Station upgrade, project number E10292, for an estimated cost of $1,090,000. Mr. Fish. Thank you. Scott Gibson is back. He's doing double duty today. The Safeway Pump Station located in the Safeway frontage along North Jansen Drive on Hayden Island
 is an integral part of the city sewer system. It pumps sewage and stormwater runoff from Hayden Island to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant in North Portland. This important pump station upgrade project will improve reliability and increase pumping capacity, among other benefits. Construction is anticipated to begin in early summer 2018. Scott's here to give us a quick PowerPoint. I will note, Mayor and colleagues,
 that we had sort of record rain flow the last few days. And a couple nights ago, we had an incredible deluge. And that's when our system really shines, because the spike in volume of water that we have to manage, along with everything else, really puts a strain on the system and water.
 It's why we have the pumps. It's why we have the big pipe. It's why we've made all these investments. And it's why we have to continually upgrade our existing infrastructure. Scott, you want to give us a brief overview? I will. So I have 14, let's see, 1147 and 1148. They're both pump stations. They're very similar. Can you put them both together, Mayor? Okay, yes, please.
 1448, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the Airport Way 1 pump station improvement and AW03 Force Main Repair Project number E10529 for an estimated construction cost of $2,374,000. Okay. Okay.
 Please proceed, Scott. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. So we're trying to find the presentation for Safeway, so I'll run through airport, and I'm sure it'll be there by the time we get done. So the City of Portland owns roughly 100 pumping stations, and the two that I'm here to talk to you about today are small, but they're very routine, and they give you an idea of the struggles we're dealing with in maintaining and upkeeping these.
 First thing, this is the airportway pump station number one on the left and airportway pump station number three on the right. And the purpose of this project is to replace obsolete mechanical, electrical, and control equipment in the pump station number one to improve pump station maintenance and reliability. We have a very severely leaking roof and poor structure there. We need to improve safety and access to the facility.
 to the facility the ventilation system is inadequate and the fuel generation for the backup power generator is stored inside the building which wouldn't be coded at today here are some pictures of the existing pump station on the left you'll see the control system the motor control system which starts and stops the pumps and that system has failed it's running on a temporary system right now so we'll replace that
 in the picture on the right pge maintains and owns the power supply equipment within the building and to code now that would be separated so that the crews working on the control systems wouldn't be exposed to that to the shock risk and then finally we have some failures in the pump state in the wet well the estimated construction contract cost is 2.374 million dollars our confidence in this estimate is optimal we've had a number of recent bids we're comparing with and we're feeling good about the costs um
 Cost to date are roughly $400,000, and the estimate to complete the project is $3.2 million. The schedule going forward is listed below with construction starting in May of 2017 and continuing for a year. And that's it. The questions that I have on that, we're able to find this one. Okay, questions. And you found the other one? Okay. Maybe. Where would I look at?
 You're looking for the other PowerPoint? There it is. I got it. Thank you. Thank you for your appreciation on this. Let's see. All right, the Safeway Pump Station, the second pump station I'll talk about, is a very small pump station on Hayden Island. It's in the parking lot of a Safeway store. We adopted this pump station from the county, and they didn't give us any records for it when they gave it to us. We think it was built in 1960s.
 and it serves a mix of commercial and residential properties. So the project objectives are to upgrade the Safeway pump station for future projected flows to increase the security for electrical control systems and the backup power supply, and then also to improve operations and maintenance. This rose to the top of our list because of the frequent call-outs due to failures of the pumps, and the pumps are wearing extremely fast. Here's a rendering of the remodeled pump station.
 And our advertisement forbid, we right after the holidays, we hope to begin construction in May of 2017 once again for roughly a year. The cost are all-in project cost at $2.2 million and the construction phase at $1.4 million. Do you have any questions? I'm here to answer them. Very much. Good presentation. Questions? Thanks a lot, Scott. Anyone want to speak on either of these items? Yes.
 If not, then they move forward to second reading. Thank you, Scott. Thank you. 1449. Establish annual sale price of 350, sale price cap of $350,000 for the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. Commissioner Salsman. Thank you, Mayor. The Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program, or HALTI,
 provides a 10-year tax exemption to low- to moderate-income homebuyers, making homeownership more affordable for families in Portland. With housing prices quickly rising, the Holti program is one of the primary opportunities for affordable homeownership through the Portland Housing Bureau. The Housing Bureau is required to establish an annual sale price cap for the Holti program by January 1st, not to exceed 120% of the area median sale price.
 which is currently $347,000. So the Housing Bureau is proposing to set the Holti program sale cap at $350,000, which is a 13% increase from last year's cap. The Holti program has limits on the income of eligible buyers. 100% of the area median family income is $73,300 for a family of four.
 And I'd like to thank the Housing Bureau staff who did the legwork to make this program work, Marion Hurley and Dory Van Bockel. I don't know if they're here still, but they're still here if there's questions. So otherwise, thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Questions? And staff here if needed? Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it's a resolution. We can take a vote now. Novick? As usual, excellent staff work. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Thank you. Aye. Okay. 1450? Amend subrecipient contracts with unlimited choices for $110,000 and NIA for $260,338 for home repair services. Mr. Saltzman? Thank you, Mayor. This ordinance combines two contract amendments for two existing nonprofit partners,
 currently receiving Portland Housing Bureau funding for home repair services, NAYA and Unlimited Choices both have ample experience serving low-income communities and senior residents by providing critical home repairs and leveraging other resources to maximize the work necessary to repair and maintain the homes. They both have waiting lists of people who need critical home repairs, and NAYA Cully is expanding their existing program beyond the Cully neighborhood into East Portland.
 These funds will help prevent further displacement of low-income homeowners and senior residents in East Portland and have been developed with the input of the East Portland Action Plan members. Thank you. Questions? Anyone want to speak on this item as well? If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Roll call vote, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay.
 Okay, 1452. Authorize the appropriation of $51 million for a housing property fund. Commissioner Salzman. Thank you, Mayor. Last week, the council approved the purchase of our first property under the voter-approved affordable housing bond, the 263-unit Ellington Apartments. This will help prevent the displacement, prevent displacement, and provide new deeply affordable housing for hundreds of families.
 So here before us today are two technical items related to that purchase, and Kurt Krieger and Mike Johnson of the Bureau are here, as well as Andrew Scott, to answer any questions. But I would, however, like to offer a technical amendment to Item 1452, which I am passing out right now. Thank you. And this amendment clarifies that a HUD loan, a HUD loan not grant, will be used. I think there might have been,
 some discussion last week about a loan versus a grant. Are you offering this amendment? Yes, I am. I'll second the amendment. Can I ask a question, Dan? Sure. As a sponsor. So this sounds like a technical issue about how you're handling interim funding, but you're not changing. Your intent is to...
 sometime next summer or later fund this with bond proceeds correct yes the vast majority of the purchase price will be through bond receipts so this is just an interim funding mechanism and it is still your intention to have the soon to be organized committee oversight committee review this transaction correct yes that's why it's specifies to be acquired bond sale proceeds and I
 And I'd just like some clarification on the issue of grant versus loan. When we had the discussion last week, it sounded as though some of the federal funds might be not having to be paid back. So do you anticipate that you will borrow some, and if so, how would they then be paid back? I'll turn it over to our very capable director, Kurt Krieger, to answer that question for you. Thank you very much for the opportunity, Kurt Krieger, Housing Director. We anticipate utilizing a well-established –
 FHA program called the 223F, that's in Fox program. HUD insures mortgages for affordable housing and for market rate housing through this program. And our intent would be to use the HUD money in the form of a loan for the rehabilitation needs of the property.
 which we estimate to be $10 million. We may also use some of the HUD money, up to $20 million in total, for replacement reserves. One thing I want to make sure the Council knows is that this is a commodity of the Federal Housing Administration. It's not subject to appropriations of the federal government.
 So it is a usual and customary loan product. It's been available since 1974. This last year, HUD insured mortgages for 500 projects, totaling 70,142 units at $4.5 billion. So it's not going to be subject to appropriations of the Congress nor of taxes.
 fiat by the federal government. It's a normal commodity product that would be originated through a delegated underwriter that we would select through a separate procurement process. Thank you. That's good information. When we had the discussion last week, it was very clear
 implied that there might be less of the housing bond because of the availability of this money. So if we did borrow it, what would be the mechanism to pay it back? Our current thinking is that $37 million of the purchase price of the $47 million property would be from bonds. $10 million would be from HUD loans.
 loan proceeds, and an additional $10 million of HUD proceeds would be used for the rehabilitation. So our loan to value ratio would be very favorable. The loan would be less than 50% of the value of the property.
 The other thing I'd like to say for the record is we ordered an appraisal when this property was put under contract. It takes about six weeks. We did receive a preliminary indication of value last week of $46 million and $50,000. So we're within two percentage points of the appraised value. My question is, how will the loan be paid back? From which fund? It's paid from cash flow from the property itself. If you recall, the mortgage...
 goal of the bond is for the entire population to be under 60% of the area median income. So they will all have leases. They will pay a rent that is affordable to them based on their household income, and that rental income will be used to pay the mortgage. Okay.
 Thank you. That's helpful. And so you're still, even though it's a loan, not a grant, you're still proposing to have that $37 million from the housing bond. Correct. Correct.
 And that works out for the maintenance of the property as well? It does. In fact, we would establish maintenance reserves at the time that the program is financed so that we already capitalize those. And the reason for the $51 million is actually to cover some float between the $47 million purchase price and the short-term maintenance and repair needs of the property. Thank you. Mr. Director, can I just ask a question just from my own edification? Sure.
 What's the difference between this approach and the approach we've done in the past through the 108 loan program? Well, are they first cousins or are they totally different? They're totally different. All right. That's all I need to know. They're totally different. I'm satisfied. Okay. All right. I had some experience with 108 loan. I get that this is a different tool and it seems like a responsible program. I get that reassurance too.
 I appreciate the reassurance about this being a commodity loan from HUD. Nevertheless, I urge you to take all deliberate speed and make application before Inauguration Day. Thank you for that advice. All right, further questions for our director? Anyone want to speak on this item? I don't know if they're all still here. Wayne Wigness, Joe Waltz, Charles Johnson, and Michael Withey. Okay, come on up, please. And Ronald Brown also asked to speak to you. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Afternoon. My name is Wayne Wigness. I heard last week on the news about women and children dying in Syria. Ever curious, look on TED.com, Google search, war Syria infrastructure. This lady with a Ph.D., born and raised in Syria, she made an argument that the infrastructure in Syria served as a source of group identity and unity for people and allowing that to be ran through effectively.
 opened the floodgates for dissension and eventually contributed to war. Now, social congruency and group identity are well-respected concepts in research, and I don't think it's unreasonable to say that they are inextricably tied to the habitat that they grow in. Now, apply this to Portland. I'm a day laborer here in Portland and a student. I'm the one taking your homes and your buildings apart, and I help unload the materials to new places.
 So I see what goes down, and I see what goes up. What goes out is things like basalt stone pulled off the ships from China and covered a 100-, 200-year-old well. Natural wood, brick. Somebody was telling me about at a bank downtown, we demoed the stairs. It was white marble, and somehow they managed to weld the brass onto the marble. Look at the top, the old...
 All buildings downtown Portland, they got like unique carvings and stuff. But what replaces it is plastic, like plastic membrane, plastic composite, wood flooring, engineered wood. For those who don't know, that means it's been smashed up and glued together. It's 5% glue. All the OSB board, the particle board, the plywood, we're gluing homes together nowadays. Even the nice places, especially the nice places like in the Pearl District,
 So for lack of a more appropriate term, we're pissing on what our ancestors handed down to us in our culture, our habitat. And it's all for what? The presumption that we make it cheaper for developers to build what they need to build, and that's going to burst the bubble? But the bubble never bursts. I'm no economist, but it seems reasonable to say that to burst the bubble, you need more than to meet the supply. You need a surplus.
 But in a capitalist market, what developer is going to build what they don't think is going to be filled within the foreseeable future? This isn't China. We're not building ghost towns, and leverage is not going to be restored. So we need to try something different. On that note, I iterate what I usually iterate. Don't build the partition walls. Large-scale bunkhouses inside of cities. Put it on the market for those people.
 who would make use of it, let them break the monopoly that physical privacy holds over the rental market, and restore leverage for all those who show up asking for different versions of the same thing, expecting different results. Out of time, so wrap up your thought, please. It's very helpful. The spatial laws of physics didn't break down so we could have a conversation about density. You need to utilize density in the vertical direction. Stacked beds, not just stacked units. And I was hoping to talk about zoning codes,
 But suffice it to say, group another time. Okay. Thank you very much. Appreciate that point. Thank you. Yeah. Mr. Withey, welcome. Mike Withey. So I think this is a great deal. I've been following how much we've been spending through the years since I've been working on the homeless and affordable housing issue here in Portland and throughout the country, really. And this deal is about $178,000 per unit.
 And it's a family-sized unit, so I think that's phenomenal for what the city has been spending. For just a studio, we could pay up to $268,000, right? Yeah.
 So I love that. And I also, at yesterday's meeting with the advisory committee for the Oregon Harbor of Hope, we had the good fortune of having Kurt Krieger with us, and we discussed several things. But one of the things that we discussed is how we would be able to use things like Dave Carbino's Home First Development, where they can actually build for $80 a square foot, stick-built apartments, right, and they do.
 How could we incorporate that in other things like our micro-communities? How could we build things for the city without it costing too much money? Just the red tape and the extra cost of prevailing wage. Other things make it cost prohibitive. So what I discovered and what we discovered, I guess, was that we could build them through the private sector and then just sell them to the city. So you would be getting about market value
 We would just try not to make any money. We could do it through B Corp, so we could do it through existing corporations already. So it was nice to find that out at Homer Williams' office where we were around, surrounded by big developers that usually go the other way, that don't usually build for low-income folks that are in the conversation now. So I hope during this process of spending the other $200 million that we do look at this
 close up and try to use it as a way to produce more affordable housing. So that's all I have to say about it. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Anyone else? Okay. Then let's take a vote, please, on the resolution as amended. We need to vote on the amendment first. Sorry, we haven't voted on the amendment yet. Let's do that. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. And then on the resolution as amended. Novick? Aye. No.
 Thank you again for all the progress you've made on housing in the past few years, Commissioner Salzman and the House. I wish. It's a great deal, and all of us know this address very well because Senator Gordley lives next door, and we all get invited to her neighborhood night out event every year. You know, Dan, some will say we're putting the cart before the horse.
 But in an emergency, we have to seize opportunities when they are in front of us. And the alternative would be to lose an incredible piece of land that's home to a lot of folks that would not have a better option. In fact, many of these folks would find themselves on the street. And I like the fact that you're buying a large campus that we can add to over time and we can improve. So I think this is –
 This may have been a little quicker than the voters anticipated, but I think from the point of view of stretching the dollar, this is exactly what they bought. And I'm proud of the leadership that you gave to that effort for the housing bond. I was proud to work with you on that. And I think this is a great down payment on the promise of that investment. Well, this is a very fitting first acquisition under the voter-approved housing bond.
 As I said earlier, 263 units, many of them family size, on 11 acres of land in sort of central northeast Portland. It really is a great location that will prevent these families from being displaced. This property was on the market. It was going to go into private hands, and rents were going to increase. We were approached by people in the private sector that said, you ought to buy this. And I'm really pleased that we, thanks to voters and their approval of the bond measure, are actually in a position to do that today.
 This is a great acquisition, and I want to thank, again, Housing Bureau, Shannon Callahan in my office for all their help in making this happen today, and my colleagues. Aye. Anything else?
 Government moving too quickly, that's a problem. Commissioner Saltzman, thank you very much. You know, I've said all along that our housing emergency response that we've worked on together was three things. You know, fast action, deliberate experimentation, and real money. This one's all three. And it's also money very well spent, very cost-effectively spent.
 putting families into units that are sized for families, and we have a lot of families in need in our city. So bravo, really well done, and it's going to be a great neighborhood, thanks to your leadership. Aye. Okay, let's take action then on the next item on the same subject, which is 1453. Authorize a temporary operating loan of $51 million between the Development Services Fund and the Housing Property Fund. Anything further?
 before we take action on this? Anyone want to speak on this particular resolution? If not, then we'll vote on that one as well, please. No, thank you. Aye.
 Well, I'm very proud to have been in charge of the Bureau of Development Services for two and a half years at the beginning of this term when we were able to set the Bureau back to building healthy reserves. There was a time in the previous administration that the reserves were at $13 million, and they're now having deleted that whole amount to pay employees to keep
 delivering permits during the recession. I then worked with the staff, Porth, Scarlett and Elshad, to develop a business continuity plan. And the reserves are now so healthy that we're able to give this short-term loan within the city rather than having to go out to a commercial lender. So I'm glad that we're doing it this way, and thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your continued diligence, both with development services and with housing. Aye. Yes. Aye. Aye.
 Heltsman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Good work. Okay, let's then move on to 1453-1. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Milwaukee to revise urban service boundary of unincorporated areas between City of Milwaukee and Portland. So a while ago, Milwaukee elected a...
 fine new mayor, Mark Gamba, who's very progressive and very capable and also is a good colleague. And so we sat down and talked about issues where the two cities could resolve some things between us, and one of them was this and the issues around Elk Rock Island, which we're managing but sits in their front yard, or rather in the river in front of their front yard. So this intergovernmental agreement sets the stage for resolving some of those
 good government issues that lie between us and our neighbor, and Mr. Burns has led that work. Thank you for being here this afternoon. Thank you.
 uh mayor members of the council i'm al burns pure planning sustainability one of the things council did when they adopted the new comprehensive plan map was a look to the future with adopting an urban services boundary which is just as much part of that map as the land use designations or the recreational trails and what this boundary does is it allows us to coordinate with our neighboring jurisdictions on who will be the future urban service provider it also
 specifies the ultimate limits of the city's future annexations. So it's a look to the future and it's a way to coordinate urban services.
 I worked very closely with my colleague, Denny Egner, who's the planning director for Milwaukee. We both had earlier agreements with some inconsistencies. There were gaps and overlaps between our two service boundaries, and these were resolved. One of the ones was Elk Rock Island, which was deeded to the city by the Kerr family for Peter Kerr Park, a natural area open to the public. And it was never in Portland's urban services boundary and also never in Milwaukee's urban services.
 services boundary. As a matter of fact, their boundary looked like a doughnut and this island was a hole in the doughnut. Now this agreement doesn't transfer ownership of the island to the city of Milwaukee but it facilitates it by putting them in their urban services boundary. That would allow Milwaukee to annex and police the island. Right now it's unincorporated and the Columbus County Sheriff's Office has.
 service responsibility for that. So this is one of the first of a series of interagency agreements with our neighboring cities about how we'll manage unincorporated areas between the two cities. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Just a comment, Mayor. This is a really important step, and Mayor Gamba came to see me recently because he's looking to the next six months, and he
 He reviewed the course of his diplomacy, his conversations with you. And the next chapter in this involves the city of Portland, but particularly Parks and Rec and BES. And so...
 There were a couple hang-ups at the Bureau of Environmental Services. I'm talking about Elk Rock Island and its future. And Mike Jordan is diligently looking to resolve those issues. And the hope is that early in 2017, the City of Milwaukee, Portland Parks and Rec, and VES can come to some understanding. And that's underway. Good to hear. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, then let's take a vote, please. Novi? It's so nice that Portland and Milwaukee can address boundary issues peaceably. I don't know if that's always been the case. I understand that there were border skirmishes back in the 1870s, but I'm glad we have great mission now. Chris?
 Well, I've been very glad to work with Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fish on this initiative. About the same time that he was talking to the mayor of Milwaukee, I was meeting with former representative Caroline Tomei, and she indicated that this was a long-cherished goal of hers to get the island restored.
 One of the big concerns from Parks is that we've invested a lot of money in getting rid of invasives and restoring the natural areas on the island. And so we've also been collaborating with the National Park Service
 environmentalists in the community who are wanting to make sure that the money that the taxpayers and taxpayers have spent there don't just get wasted if Milwaukee doesn't have the funds to be able to keep it in good shape. So, as was mentioned, I think we're very close to getting that.
 agreement, and I very much thank Pooja Bhatt on my staff for working with parks, and all the park staff have been very diligent in their negotiations on this. Aye. Yes. You know, Mayor, if we had more time, we could tell the story of Elk Rock.
 because it's a great story about what have what what uh illicit activities occurred there once upon a time and why the owners got sideways with the city of milwaukee and why as a parting shot they deeded the land to portland which actually had no connection to the property we've put it to good use as commissioner fritz said because we've we've done environmental remediation and there's other benefits of that of that of that island
 But really, it belongs. It should be reunited with the great city of Milwaukee. And by the way, the one thing I learned about Milwaukee recently is some folks that are being priced out of Portland and moving to the surrounding area are moving to places like Milwaukee. And Milwaukee is...
 is having the same challenges we have, a 50% increase in land values in a very short amount of time, same challenges with renting. But it's also because people are being displaced and moving around the region, it's changing the politics in Milwaukee. And there are now some people, elected officials on the Milwaukee City Council that are Portland, former Portlanders, whose heart is still with Portland. And the relationship between our two cities is growing stronger, and not just because of light rail. So it's terrific. Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 Yeah, this is a good piece of work, and you're right, that history is pretty bizarre. But the current situation is actually kind of untenable. If you think about it, if there was a big island out in the middle of the Willamette in front of downtown Portland that belonged to a bigger city just nearby, we would resent that.
 and they've been frankly awfully polite about this but it's time to do this and they are good partners, Mayor Gammon and others there are really working in partnership with us so Al thank you for your good work on this and I look forward to paddling our canoe up the river and visiting Milwaukee's park on Elk Rock Island someday soon. Aye. Thank you. Okay let's move on to now our delayed afternoon agenda. Thank you all for waiting. Let's take S1454. S1454.
 amend the official city zoning map planning and zoning code and transportation system plan to carry out portland's 2035 comprehensive plan establish a new community involvement program and committee
 amend related codes, the 2035 comprehensive plan and plan map to coordinate policies and programs. We don't normally start city council items with a drum roll or a fanfare of trumpets, but it would seem appropriate today. So, Susan, Eric, thank you for this great piece of work. Take it away. Mayor, I don't want to rain on the parade here, but this just feels rushed to me. Okay.
 It's so true. Good afternoon. Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. With me is Eric Engstrom, Principal Planner. I just want to make a few points here. This is a big vote for us today and to thank possibly more than a few people. You know, I've said it probably a dozen times, and I'll probably say it again. We all know that great places...
 Don't happen by accident. We are this wonderful, walkable, prosperous city that so many people want to move to exactly because we did a comprehensive plan more than 35 years ago. And that plan led us in a very, very different direction than most other American cities. So today we're here to celebrate the final steps of the comprehensive plan as we become a city of 800,000 people over the next 20 years. Again, this is task-based.
 Task 5 of the Comprehensive Plan. I know Eric and Joe are kind of sad that there is no Task 6, but they're going to have to get over it. This is it. This is the final step. As you know, the plan, it isn't just about the map and the building heights and the setbacks and all that. It is about people. It's about helping people thrive. The goal of this entire document, at least from my perspective, is to create wonderful neighborhoods to ensure that we have an abundance of jobs.
 to make sure that there are all types of housing throughout the community, to make sure that it's easy to get around and to travel, create a vibrant downtown, and to protect the environment now and for future generations. So to me, that's what all this work has been about. I know that staff wants me to list all the great components of the project. I'm not going to do that. But there were so many components that are so, so important. I do want to list out just five.
 First, the new mixed-use zones, they ensure that growth, that housing and jobs can be accommodated in our corridors, in our mixed-use centers, and that will expand our wonderful neighborhoods. Second, the changes that we've proposed for employment zones will continue our commitment to living wage jobs with more opportunities on the Central East Side and to keep our strong industrial sanctuaries.
 Third, the new campus zones allow Portland to expand our education and medical institutions, and that'll help us grow as a West Coast center for knowledge, for innovation, for research. Fourth, the new TSP embraces the transportation hierarchy that you all adopted last summer to better serve freight and businesses, to make sure that it's easy to get around, and to improve air quality and reduce carbon emissions. And fifth, the plan, at least for me, was really all about civic engagement.
 The plan was, it is truly a plan for everyone. It really builds on our great neighborhood associations, but it went many steps beyond that, and it includes a full spectrum of Portlanders who are involved in that it serves, including lower-income families, including young people and renters, people who want to be able to age in place in their neighborhoods, disabled people, immigrants, people of color, and more. So, again...
 There were a lot of details, but this wasn't just about zoning and code. This is totally about creating a place for people to thrive. Before I turn it over to you for the vote, I just want to thank several people. First you and your staff. Your staff were amazing. They met with Eric often. I think they're all new best friends. We appreciate their diligence and we really appreciate all the great questions that they asked and being able to put all the pieces together.
 I think second, it's almost thanking the entire community and all of the work groups and committees that were involved. Literally, there were thousands of people who made comments on the plan, either in person, by mail, by email, or on the map app. And the plan definitely reflects all of that work and probably more, or actually a couple thousand comments.
 Next, I want to thank Andre Baugh, who is here, and maybe he'll stand up or wave. You're on, right? And Catherine Schultz, who regrets that she couldn't be here tonight or this afternoon, for their leadership as chairs of the Planning and Sustainability Commission and really all of the members of the PSC, including Howard Shapiro, who chaired the Citizen Involvement Committee.
 Finally, I want to thank some staff, Barry Manning, John Cole, Shannon Buono, Sarah Wright, Marty Stockton, all of the district liaisons, Denver Igarra from PBOT, a whole slew of staff from PBOT, BES, PDC, a lot of other bureaus with three initials. There were so many different bureaus that were involved, and we appreciate all of their work.
 Probably half of the BPS staff was involved in one way or another. Tom and Steve and Tyler, Julia Thompson, Al, who was just here, Bill, and many, many others. Mark Raggett and his design team. And a special thank you to Kevin Martin, who, with his team, created the map app. And we really have become sort of a leading design studio and a leading place in terms of
 of doing planning throughout the United States in the work that we've done with creating tools like the map app. Then I guess finally, and most of all, I want to thank my partners, Joe Zender and Deborah Stein, and the man, Eric Engstrom. Eric, as you know, was phenomenal on this project. I can't begin to describe, and
 his incredible technical skills, his attention to details, his absolute perseverance, his tenacity in completing this project and making sure that all of us took part. So I would like to actually lead us in a standing ovation for Eric. Here, here. Thank you.
 And then I just have one last comment, something Eric told me, of course, that I need to say into the record. And that is after you vote today, assuming that you all vote yes, this all takes effect in about a year, January 2018. And of course, that's after we send it all down to Salem.
 for their approval at DLCD. And then with a project this size, there's likely, or more than likely, to be some objections, and we will take all of those in stride. So I guess it's time for you to vote. I know this has been a really big day for inclusionary housing, and now for a new comprehensive plan for the city. This really is the last time.
 today, anyways, that will be here on the comprehensive plan. And it's just been a really great process. And for me, it's been truly an honor. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Any further discussion before we vote? Then let's take a vote, please. Novick. Thank you, Eric. Thank you, Susan. Thank you, Joe. Thanks to everybody at BPS and at PBOT and all the other boroughs who worked so hard to get to this moment.
 Thank you, colleagues, especially. Thank you, Mayor Hales, for being here for this period where we're doing the comprehensive plan. Can't think of a better person to be mayor during this process. You've given so much of your life to thoughtful urban planning. One substantive thing I want to say is this is a plan which anticipates and allows for growth. It assumes that more people are going to be moving to Portland.
 Recently, we've been experiencing a lot of growing pains. There's no denying that. I just wanted to take a couple of minutes to talk about the reasons it's a good thing that more people are moving to Portland and that we should, and especially that we should accommodate for them by allowing for more housing to be built. One is that the greatest challenge the human race has ever faced, which unfortunately we're forcing a lot of other species to face with us, is climate disruption.
 And if we're going to fight climate disruption, one thing we want to have happen is more people living in moderate climates because building heating and cooling are a major...
 an aspect of energy use and if you're in a place that's hot or cold or both of those different times of the year then you'll see more energy used on heating and cooling so as a species we want more people living in places where you don't have to fire up the heater or the air conditioner on a regular basis second compact development such as that anticipated by our comprehensive plan is conducive to
 people driving less and spending less energy on transportation. Because if you have people living closer together, it's easier for biking, walking, and taking transit to make sense. And that's particularly true in a city that has a pre-existing commitment to transit and biking and walking.
 Another reason it's important that we accommodate growth and the building of more housing is that Portland has somehow become a really, really popular place. And a lot of people want to move here. And as a result, we've seen the price of housing skyrocketing. And if we severely restrict the supply of housing, the demand will still continue and prices will continue to go up and up and up.
 So allowing for more housing to be built, as this comprehensive plan does, is an important tool in limiting the sky-high housing price increases we've seen. So, again, I realize that growth is going to continue to be controversial, and it does impose inconveniences, but there are two big reasons why I think we should embrace it, and I'm glad this comprehensive plan embraces the idea that Portland will continue to grow.
 Finally, I want to thank Katie Shriver and my staff for putting in hundreds and hundreds of hours on the comprehensive plan and related policies. So thank you, Katie.
 Amazing, the work that's got done. And thank you for getting it here on the last day that we're going to be in council. You deserve a standing ovation too, Susan, and Joe Zender and your whole crew. I'm very glad to see many of them were able to be here. And it is special to watch the end of a project like this, which for me and many others has been not just four years, not just eight, it's been 12 or 16. I was on the Planning Commission in 1996 and I'm very happy to be here.
 working them away through some of the beginnings of this. And then Tom Potter had the Community Connect and the Bureau Improvement Project, and a bunch of very strong-minded women in the bureaus started pushing for, we need to have an equity component in this comprehensive plan and the things that we do. They...
 partly as a result of what Tom Menpotter did. So Desiree Williams-Rajni, Amalia Alconda-Morris, Danielle Brooks, Afifa Ahmed-Shafi, there's others. And these were the women who just would not stop saying, we have to change things, it's up to us to change things.
 And so it's been such an honour and a delight to serve first with Mayor Adams to get the Portland plan done and take the time to get it right. And now to work with you, Mayor Hales, for four years on all of the exciting things we've been able to do, including correcting some of the things that I was most steamed about back in 1996.
 Thank you. And it does stand us in good stead. And we all recognise, especially with the new community involvement chapter, which very clearly spells out much deeper than the old Goal 9, the old Policy 9, what we're expecting from all of our communities and who is entitled to participate and to make a difference, not just to be heard but to be listened to and to have their suggestions made into law. I don't know.
 I do thank Claire Adamsick on my staff and also Pooja Bhatt, who the two of them, it was almost miraculous the way that this enormous body of work would get laid out so that I knew exactly what you were doing. Of course, it wasn't miraculous. It was because they'd worked with Eric and with Joe and multiple staff coming into our offices, working with my staff so that I oftentimes had things handed to me with very little effort on my part, and I just really appreciate it.
 I think I would have liked to have been a staff person working on this plan, but it's supreme. I just like that stuff. It's been a huge honour, and I'm very, very happy that we've got to this place on this special day. Happy holidays, everybody. Bye.
 Well, you're going to hear some similar themes as we go down the line here. Thank you. Okay. And it's fitting that in the last council day of the year and in your last session, Mayor, we're adopting a comprehensive plan because I think this issue more than any other issue defines your public service.
 And I think it helps to explain why you do public service. Because of all the issues that we work with you on, this is the one that always brought out your best. And it was clear watching you in this building. So each of us has a long list of thank yous. And there's no harm in thanking the same people more than once. Because this has really been just an extraordinary effort. And Susan, you are the captain of the ship. And you've put together this team.
 And so you deserve our great thanks for your leadership. And Eric, you and I have had a chance to work on many things. I've never seen someone get into the details on something as complicated as this and show such command. And we used to tease you that every once in a while you would actually miss something, some little detail, like you'd be off by a centimeter on some line on some map, because we were always shocked because of your command of this issue.
 You've done a great job. Joe Zender and Eric, I want to also thank you for the boot camps that you put me through. Every once in a while, because I don't have Amanda's background or Charlie's background, I would ask Susan for a boot camp. Essentially, she would send her best people in to help bring my level of understanding up. And you guys had a lot on your plate, and you never said no. And it helped me engage this process in a much more thoughtful way. So thank you. And to Deborah Stein and Marty Stockton, my old neighbor.
 And to all the folks who've worked so hard on this, thank you. To the whole planning commission, because we saw a lot of the members coming through and offering views, but particularly to Catherine and Andre. I mean, citizen volunteers, Charlie, you talk about all the time how blessed we are with people that step up and do these jobs. They're two of the best we've ever had in that role, and they shine.
 I'm loathe to mention the city council staff because then I'll be accused of poaching at some point. But everyone here has a great personal staff. And no matter what the temperature is on this council, the staff people always work well together.
 And they're always operating on a collegial level. And Matt Grum, because we're just one door apart, spends the most time in my office, maybe because we have good food in the kitchen or something. But Matt is an extraordinary public servant. Katie Schreiber has been an absolute pleasure to work with. Claire Adamsek. Pooja Bhat, who we wish we had met her before you did. She's terrific.
 And Camille, and then I want to mention, brag on my Jamie Dunphy, because in one of our hearings, someone actually referenced, I think it was you, Steve, some amendment that Jamie did. You've probably already, you remember it, I don't remember it, but that's the difference in our IQ, but you called him out on something in...
 Jamie has worked tirelessly on this and has really been, just as Amanda said, on every one of these hearings and every time we had a big issue, I would be handed a document to help me understand the choices. And that's the best kind of staff work. And so I'm grateful to Jamie's work.
 And I want to thank my teams at the utilities. And, you know, we're not the lead bureaus on this, although BES had a big piece, but they've done good work. And the hundreds of property owners and advocates and businesses and neighborhood associations and volunteers and everyday citizens who came in and testified and pushed us and chaired us and booed us and advocated the best of Portland. And Joe Rossi, who never missed a meeting.
 And there should be an award in his name. That's true. I want to say something about Commissioner Fritz and the mayor, because both of them dove headfirst into the weeds on this. And I was looking at what I had written, and I said, I can't say that about Amanda, because it's too close to another responsibility she has regulating weeds. But the weed, I should say. But they both jumped into the weeds on complicated issues. And...
 I used to joke at the end of some of our hearings that I could put in for college credit, as the two of them would sort of talk through complicated issues. But Amanda served on the Planning Commission, and Charlie has devoted his life to the built environment. And I've never served with two people that knew so much about such an important subject. And it helped frame some of our most controversial discussions. I think you've both been anchors in that respect. And I thank you for what you've done. And...
 And again, Charlie, I've served with three mayors. Each one had something that you knew, above all other things, they cared about. And, you know, I think for you, my guess is it's the built environment and making sure this process was done the Portland way. Now that the comp plan is finished, Eric Engstrom can get a full night's sleep without waking up in the middle of the night in a cold sweat.
 And once we vote on this, we get to come back in January and start working on the Central City 2035 plan. So we get to start all over again. It is a privilege to be in public service because you get to work with wonderful people and you get to shape the direction of a city you love. And there's nothing I'm prouder of than this exercise that we have done together. And I thank you for allowing me to be a part of it. Aye. Thank you.
 Well, I think it's all been said. I will just say I've never felt so baited and switched in all my life. Every time we deal with the comp plan, I kept asking, is this it? Is this it? Is this it? And they say, yeah. And then all of a sudden, what's these hearings two weeks from now? Or what are these work sessions we're having? So it's been a long time, and it's a lot of work. This is not my strong area by any means compared to Mayor Hills or Commissioner Fritz, certainly. Yeah.
 But I played along and acted like I – tried to act as smart as I could and hopefully made some contributions to this. But it's been – it really is – even though I'm not – this is not my forte, I do appreciate the enormity of this effort and know that we – it's very important to the blueprint of the city, and it's very important to the residents of our city. I was really impressed with the turnout. I mean, I think only in Portland do you have –
 turnouts like that for a comp plan hearing or do we have organizations formed around the notion of no parking or more parking and you know we have all these vibrant committees that I don't think most other cities even come close to so people really do care about this stuff and I appreciate that and admire that and
 And I just want to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff for all their hard work and my colleagues up here for our perseverance and the Planning and Sustainability Commission for everything they've contributed as well. So on to the state, hopefully for their approval. Aye. Aye. Well...
 a couple thank yous to add and then a few thoughts um camille trummer zach linovsky jackie dingfelter and my staff have worked so hard on this as well and i know we've all mentioned staff i want to mention them and in addition to andre and kat you know think about the thousands of portlanders who have been in this chamber at one of our meetings been involved you know at a time where we're sometimes worried about public engagement this one it happened and it didn't happen by accident it happened because of good work by this
 I had a chance to meet with Susan and her staff the other day and thank them for the opportunity for me as a planner to work with them as planners because they're the best. And this plan realizes that truth in how it was done and what has been done. I grew up, I was born in a city that was designed by a brilliant planner, Washington, D.C., by L'Enfant.
 with George Washington giving him the opportunity to do a good job of planning the city. And then I grew up in the suburbs outside of DC and I saw sprawl metastasize and ruin so much of the quality of life that I just thought would always be there. And then I moved to Portland. And 30 years ago, I got involved in planning issues because I remembered that mistake of letting growth just happen the wrong way.
 And loving this city like we all do, I knew we had a chance and got involved in planning in this city in the year our first light rail line opened. When there were questions like, would people really want to live in a city neighborhood? So we had experiments like the Livable City Housing Project. And then, would people want to live in high-rise development in a former rail yard? And would they ride a streetcar? Yeah.
 Those were questions we didn't know 30 years ago, and that's not that long in the life of a city. It's been a long time and a big chunk of my life and a big chunk of my professional life and a long time and a lot of work, but 30 years is not so long, and yet in that time, we have gone from wondering if city cores could recapture vitality from the suburbs to having 1,000 people a month moving to our city and companies that we've never talked to
 transplanting themselves from the suburbs to the urban core. So a lot of change in a short time, and this plan is a big deal. Because of those trends, those aren't one-year affairs. Those aren't flashes in the pan or bubbles. Those are big trends. Our kids all want to live in cities, and other people's kids all want to live in Portland.
 And they're coming here like I did because this is a great livable city. And this plan will make sure of that. We all know Daniel Burnham's phrase, make no little plans. This is no little plan.
 This is a great plan for a great place. I'm very proud to have worked on it. Very happy I appointed one, Amanda Fritz, to the Planning Commission a long time ago, and I've had the privilege of working, as a couple of us have described with you, in partnership on this. This is good work. It will be very durable. It will mean that when we are a city of 800,000 people, it'll still be Portland. It'll still feel right. It'll be a green, sustainable model for the world and a great place to live. Thank you very much.
 Hi. Thank you all. Let's take a two-minute recess and we'll take up our last item. Thank you. Okay? Easy enough. I would not be here if it's not soft. I'm a hockey player, though, so... I'll allow it. How do you want to keep...
 I think I'd like to go last. I'll take that privilege. Okay, folks, we're going to proceed. Thank you for your patience. We're going to get back to work. So, yeah.
 We do need to return briefly to a previous item of business for a moment, and then we'll take up 1445. Fifty-five. So I'm going to return us briefly to item 1445 for a motion. Sorry? Fifty-five. Fourteen fifty-five. Fifty-five. Sorry. Return us to 1455. Fifty-five.
 No, I actually meant 1445. Yeah. Oh, I don't know. Maybe we haven't done 1455 as well. It is 1445, Carla. Yeah. So we're going to return briefly to item 1445 for a motion. And Commissioner Fritz, do you have a motion? Thank you. Well, I was busy praising Amalia Aliconda-Morris for being an integral part of the comprehensive plan. She was busy texting me with a very gracious text on my work phone that said –
 Was the decision to pass the marijuana changes as non-emergency intentional? And the answer was no. I was supposed to – I didn't read the script, as usual. So I'd like to move to reconsider that vote so that we can then add an emergency clause onto the regulations. Okay. So Commissioner Fritz has moved and has been seconded to reconsider the vote. Would we please take a roll call on that motion? No, thank you.
 Commissioner, your short-term memory loss is understandable. Aye. Aye. Sorry, I said we're doing wait for the thing. Sorry. Fish. Aye. Seltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And you have an amendment? So I'd like to move to add an emergency clause. All of us recognize that we want to help the flourishing cannabis businesses get through the permit process as quickly as possible. So we would like to add an emergency clause so that the permit process can be expedited. Is there a second? Second. Okay.
 Roll call, please. No, thank you. For those watching at home, this hardly ever happens, but I'm very glad that it was brought to my attention before we left the council chambers for good. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Ayo. Aye. Done. Okay, so it's repassed with emergency clause. We have added the emergency clause. Now we have to pass it again. We have to pass the ordinance. Would you take a roll call vote on that, please? No, thank you.
 Aye. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Schultzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, done. Thank you. All right, now item 14. Item 14.
 56. We skipped over 55. We didn't take the vote on that. Indeed, I did. Okay, 14555, which is an implementing item for the comp plan. Adopt a connectivity strategy for comprehensive plan centers in eastern neighborhoods. Any further discussion on this item? Vote, please. Novick. Thank you, Mayor, for coming up with this concept to begin with. Aye.
 And I appreciate the amendments saying that they'll come back with a more urban form to the streets But this at least locks in what we've currently got. Aye aye aye hails, thank you, but for listening to and attending to my table pounding and remembering that buildings last 200 years and streets last a thousand Okay, let's move on to the final item which is 1456 and
 Extend to December 31, 2017, the council approved corporate securities do not buy list. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, when we created this idea of a do-not-buy list, I realized that we'd be setting ourselves and our committee a difficult task because it was hard for me to imagine that any big corporation didn't do something that progressives would heartily disapprove of. But I told my colleagues that...
 we that we were going to focus on the worst of the worst um the committee did an incredible amount of work um and came up with a recommendation that
 nine or ten, depending on how you define it, companies would be able to do a do-not-buy list. And that was, frankly, consistent with my original concern. It would be hard to narrow the list down because there are only 50 companies, 40 to 50 companies, that are on our eligible issuers list at any given time. So we're putting 20% of those on the do-not-buy list. The committee actually only took a long look at 20 companies because those are the ones that seem most controversial. So we put half of those on the do-not-buy list.
 So I felt that that number was rather high, given my commitment to my colleagues who were going to have a small list of the worst of the worst. So I set myself to coming up with a shorter version of the list, which I presented in this resolution. And the three companies that I recommended were...
 Walmart, Credit Suisse, and Nestle, and that was largely based on the fact that if you look at the MSCI independent rating agency that looks at social responsibility factors that largely overlap with ours, it seemed to me that we have by far the clearest case for those three companies.
 In doing so, I left out not only the seven of the companies that the committee recommended adding to the buy list, I also left off two which had attracted the most attention from activists, those being Wells Fargo and Caterpillar. And we discussed this the other week. I said that I had some concerns that related in part to those companies. One is that
 Those companies were recommended in great part because of what their customers do with their products or who their customers are.
 and I expressed some skepticism that any significant number of companies ever do anything other than sell their products and services to whoever will buy them. So holding companies responsible for their customers struck me as going a bit beyond the idea of going after the worst of the worst. That was one concern that I had. Another concern that I had was that in,
 Adding, if we added Caterpillar, largely in the basis of human rights violations in Palestine, we would be, the only country that we would be taking into task in this process for human rights violations was Israel.
 And I recognize it's sort of an accident of the eligible issuers list because there aren't a lot of weapons manufacturers. In fact, there are none weapons-specific manufacturers on the eligible issuers list. So it's not like the committee looked at companies that sell weapons to Saudi Arabia that are used to destroy Yemen and didn't put them on the list. They just didn't have that opportunity. But I was still concerned about the idea that in –
 at a time when we do see rising anti-Semitism, having Israel be the one country that we have concerns about.
 There are counterarguments to both of those concerns. One is, I've been hearing from activists over the past few days that there are companies that decide not to do business in places with human rights violations, that they decide to cut off their relationships with their customers. So I think it's important for us to hear those arguments and those examples.
 And also, I think that it's important to note that although I was concerned, I shared the concern of some folks in the Jewish community about highlighting Israel, it's also important to say that I don't think that the activists wanting to put Caterpillar on the Do Not Buy list are anti-Semitic. And in fact, as has been noted, a fair number of them are Jewish. And to be personal for a moment,
 I am not a religious man, but I am Jewish. It's the one cultural identity I have. So I feel torn in two different directions. On the one hand, I share the concern about doing anything that could contribute to anti-Semitism. On the other hand, I share the desire of folks in Jewish Voice for Peace to make Israel a better country. And frankly, I was rather disturbed to hear them referred to as, quote, fringe Jews a couple of weeks ago.
 So I think, I mean, I still do have a reservation about the MSCI criteria, where I still think that the three companies that I recommended are the ones that are easiest to add based on MSCI. But...
 particularly given the strong public sentiment to consider Wells Fargo and Caterpillar, I decided today for purposes of discussion that I would offer an amendment to my own proposal to add Wells Fargo and Caterpillar to the do-not-buy list. So that's been moved. I will second that for the purpose of discussion. Okay. Are there any other amendments to propose? Yes.
 I really appreciate Commissioner Novick laying out the issues as he just did. And for each of us, I know for each person in the room and for many, many others who have emailed us and called our offices, this is extremely personal. It's very important. I've been impressed with the amount of...
 activism there has been and the way that people fervently believe that there are things to be done and that the city can do. And we all know that with the incoming administration in Washington, more and more cities and states are going to need to do things that move the dial and protect people. And that's really why I came to what I'm going to offer as a friendly amendment.
 We didn't used to buy any corporate securities before 2009, and I don't see why we should buy them now. I think we should be investing only in government securities. We shouldn't be buying any corporate debt securities simply because...
 We don't have to. And why would we risk putting money into a company that then, you know, a year or so later comes into disrepute? So my friendly amendment, which I hope that Commissioner Novick will accept, is to add to his amendment – I'm sorry, I've got copies here for the rest of the council –
 Now, therefore, be it resolved that the council directs the city treasurer to suspend direct investments of cash assets in corporate debt securities until the council has approved the city's investment policy in 2017. And I'm saying that partly because I think this is such a momentous decision that in the new year, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Eudaly are going to be wanting to be part of it.
 I also recognize that our skilled city treasurer has told us that that, completely going back to 2009, would potentially have impacts on city earnings. And so the second part of my amendment is, be it further resolved that the council directs the city treasurer to amend the city's investment policy by adding a restriction on the city's additional direct investments in corporate securities
 to those meeting a to-be-determined minimum rating at the time of purchase as determined by a third-party environmental, social, and governance-based investment research provider, and that the Treasurer would return to Council for approval of this policy no later than April 1st of 2017. Okay. Is there a second for Commissioner for System Updates? I'll second the amendment. Second the – well, it's a friendly amendment, but I'll second it just in case we need a technical. Commissioner, I'm sorry.
 I do accept that as a friendly amendment, and I thank you very much. And I want to let people know that just as the Do Not Buy list was a contentious issue within the community, it was also a contentious issue within the Council. And until Commissioner Fritz came up with this proposal, I frankly was concerned that we might not be able to get free votes for any version of the list, and the list might simply go away, and the whole concept of having socially responsible investment criteria would go away.
 I'm hopeful that we can get agreement to Commissioner Fritz's friendly amendment, so I accept it as a friendly amendment, a very friendly amendment.
 So could we perhaps vote to put the amendment on the table and then take testimony both from the Treasurer and from anybody who wants to testify on the amendments? Okay. So let's take a vote then to put Commissioner Fritz's version of the amendment on the tables, how that would work. Yeah. And then we can take testimony on that. I guess I'm a little confused. Parliamentary, where are we? There was an amendment offered by Commissioner Novick to add two companies to the list. How is this amendment that Commissioner Fritz offered related to it? I'm saying let's...
 This overrides it? Yes. We would not invest in any corporate debts until we come back with a formal policy. So we'll go back to our policy before 2009, that we only invest in government securities and treasury bonds. So we don't need to list companies if we're not buying any. Right. Okay. So does everybody understand that that's the amendment that we're going to put on the table and take testimony on? Okay. Let's take a vote on that then, please. No, thank you.
 And frankly, the more I hear about what's happening at the national level and in many different corporations, I think this is the most prudent option at this time. And it's something that hopefully we can come together as a community and focus on what we agree on rather than what we disagree on. Aye. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I will support this amendment. I do think that we need to be mindful of the fact that we are earning $4 to $7 million a year in interest earnings. And in light of the revenue forecast of a $4 million ongoing deficit, I think it drives home the congruence here that we need to be mindful. And indeed, it's probably our job as fiscal stewards of city resources to not totally get out of the corporate security business. But I do believe we can wait.
 pause a little bit. And I think we need to look into environmentally social goals. But I also think, can't we just, and I'll just, I don't ask for an answer now, but can't we just put our funds into the hands of a socially responsible investment fund manager and do it that way, take the same amount we invest in corporate securities and put it into a socially responsible investment fund? I think that'd be the easiest way to do that. It would allow us to still
 earn more than what we could earn on government-owned bonds themselves, and I think satisfy our desire here for socially responsible investments. Like I said, that's where I believe, but I will support this amendment for the time being. Hi. Niels. Hi. Okay, so we ought to give Ms. Cooperman, our treasurer, the opportunity to present anything she needs us to know and respond, if you wish, to this amendment that we have on the table.
 So welcome. Good afternoon. Jennifer Cooperman, city treasurer. I've participated in the socially responsible discussion as a subject matter expert. Would it be helpful for me to review the methodology that we use to measure the financial impact at all? Or no? One question would be helpful for me. My colleagues all may have different. Jennifer is...
 In this pause period that's being proposed before we come back and approve the city's investment policy, if this is approved –
 you would be limited in purchasing treasuries. Agency securities and treasury securities primarily. And what is the current interest rate spread between those different vehicles? And what is, in the short term, the potential cost to the city?
 The number that I would give you is that we earn about $4.5 to $5 million by being able to invest in corporates today over and above what we would get if we were owning only treasuries and agencies. On an annual basis. On an annual basis. But this doesn't contemplate divesting your current portfolio. So in terms of what would you forecast over the next quarter as being the spread? Okay.
 Bear with me. Understanding we're also in a situation where there's a lot of volatility around interest rates. Correct, and we're at low interest rates, presumably moving higher. Spreads are narrow today than they're at the narrow point. So if we use a 50 basis point number...
 And as the additional yield, then for all the monies coming in from today forward until the investment policy is re-upped, if you will, re-approved, then we would be missing out on that additional yield. But on a quarterly basis in terms of how these funds roll in and roll out? I didn't come prepared for that. It's substantially less than the $4.5 million. It's a prorated amount. So $300,000 a month.
 Because every year we reinvest? We're constantly collecting funds, proceeds, water bill payments, permits, tax proceeds, et cetera. And as soon as those funds come into Treasury, we're investing them. So we won't have the opportunity to invest at those higher rates. So that's the – I'm sorry, ma'am. That's the delta. But the –
 But the money doesn't come in on a monthly basis. The big tranches of revenue are in the collection of property taxes in the fall. Which we just completed. Right. And the collection of business income taxes around April 15th. So if this gets done by April 1st, it would guide the investment of that next big chunk of money. You would be incented to do it earlier. The other thing I just wanted to ask you is in terms of the investment which presents the least risk to the city. Mm-hmm.
 Am I correct in assuming that a treasury is the safest, albeit the most conservative, and that there still is a risk in the corporate securities market because of risk to a company? There is credit risk. Credit risk. And we manage that by buying only short-term securities and by buying securities that are rated by Moody's and S&P and Fitch at a high credit rating. So that's not to say that we –
 But we are assuming credit risk, but we believe that we are managing that risk in a highly exemplar way. Having had a few of those highly ranked, highly rated bonds in my IRA once upon a time, I understand that the Moody ratings are a guide. They're not handed down by biblical juncture. But is it imprudent for a city to be as conservative? If a city chooses to be...
 invest solely in treasuries, which are the safest instruments that we can get. Is that imprudent from your point of view? No, it's not imprudent. There's a fiduciary responsibility to first protect the principle of the funds that we have. Second is to provide liquidity to pay the bills of the bureaus. And third is to earn an investment return. And they're in rank order.
 So investing in Treasury and agency securities, which are the most highly rated, is certainly not – I mean, that's a good fiduciary thing to do. There is an opportunity loss by not being able to invest in something that Oregon state law allows us to do.
 And to Commissioner Saltzman's point, if I could address that, state law prevents us from putting any money into a fund. We have to buy individual securities. So we would not be able to, for example, put the city's money in a socially responsible mutual fund. But even if we were to identify a money manager who would,
 operates in that space, they still need guidance. They still need to know what the council would want from a socially responsible fund. They're all different. I happen to have here a listing of the top ten holdings of four different socially responsible funds, and they're all different. And there are some names that people in this room might have issues with that appear on this list. So...
 we would still have to give anyone guidance about what is okay and what is not okay. Thank you. Sure. Other questions for Ms. Cooperman?
 other points that you want to make sure we have in our minds before we proceed all right thank you very much so I know people are here to testify obviously this has taken a different turn and so I want to ask people if you do still wish to testify let's let the subject before the council is should we take the
 the approach that Commissioner Fritz has suggested and that we've put on the table, which is to say we're not going to list, we're going to invest only in public instruments for the next.
 several months, giving the council and the community the chance to weigh in on what the policy should be and how we should make these decisions rather than making them today. So I would ask that you not, even though I know some of you feel very strongly about individual companies, not focus on any individual company but on this question of the approach
 Is this the right approach for us to take? So if you're willing, please, to adjust your testimony to those realities, I think that's what would be most helpful to us because the council wants to decide this question of is this amendment the way to go? And if not, what else would we do?
 So with that, Carla, do you have a list of folks that want to speak? And I'll probably have people ask to confine their time to two minutes, depending on how many we have, because we have a lot of people in the room. I have 29 people signed up. Yes, please, two minutes. Okay. The first three are Jamie Trinkle, Hung Nam, and Cece Beckwith, and they'll be followed by Maxine Fuchsen, Ned Roche, and Rod Such. Good afternoon. Welcome. Please. Hi. Hi.
 I'm Hyung Nam. I'm speaking as a community member today, but I'm one of the members of the Socially Responsible Investment Committee. And first of all, I want to thank you for your work on this in creating the committee and hearing our testimony and just say that this is the most critical time for us to make a clear statement
 in putting at least or adding at least Wells Fargo and Caterpillar to our do-not-buy list, along with the other companies that were there before. Whatever you do with this other resolution, I would ask you to combine the Novix amended resolution and Fritz's resolution
 resolution, because other cities that don't even have an SRI committee are not only divesting from Wells Fargo, they are not even having their bonds underwritten by Wells Fargo. And this is our chance. People are looking for hope. They're looking for inspiration from cities like Portland to be a real sanctuary city, because under Trump...
 There is a major expansion for not only building walls with caterpillar equipment, mining, you name it, extracting every resources with caterpillar equipment, building prisons, and not just for-profit prisons. So many different aspects of the carceral system are run by for-profit companies and for art.
 all of that, they need financing to do it. This is the most critical time for us to make a difference on this, and we could do it today. It would send reverberations throughout the whole country and the world, and this is our chance to really give people hope and do the right thing. So I ask you to combine those amendments and whatever we do with the temporarily not investing in any securities for the next four months, at least
 Put those companies on the do not buy list for a year and join other cities. So my amendment makes it very clear that, yes. I'm sorry. I didn't iterate, Art. We ask, please, if you agree with someone, give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. If you disagree, negative is okay, as long as it's a polite hand gesture. But we ask that you not clap and applaud, obviously, when you agree.
 When you feel that agreement, it feels good. But if you happen to be on the other side, it's kind of intimidating. Go ahead, please. So I want to clarify, it does include Wells Fargo, Caterpillar, Nestle, you name it. None of those. We're not going to invest in them. So that's what our amendments are combined. But isn't that just for four months and then after four months? Then we will have another hearing and have a process which the treasurer and the
 Mayor Wheeler will be working on and come back. I'm just concerned because I know that you're so busy with so many other important issues to deliberate and for us to come back in four months and go through this whole thing again, I mean, unless you know where you're going to make $4.7 million of cuts in the city's budget right now, it seems like you have more important things that you're going to want to deal with in four months. So again, let me clarify. As Mayor Hales pointed out, the
 a chunk of money comes in at the end of April with the business taxes. So it's not like we're going to be losing four and a half million in the next three months. And there's a built-in incentive for the treasurer, who I just have to state for the record, Jennifer Cooper does excellent work. And as I said before, 2009, we didn't do it. And now because of her skill, we have been able to get more interest. Right now, the council is saying we're not going to get
 We know that there's a decreased amount of interest that may come in, and we're willing to do that because we want to invest only in things that we are absolutely sure are okay, and that for right now is government bonds and treasury securities. All right. Thank you. Appreciate that. Due to clarifying that. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Jamie Tringle. I'm with Enlace. I've been a six-year resident of Portland. ACLU of Oregon, American Friends Service Committee, Archdiocese of Oregon, Black Lives Matter Portland, Causa, Oregon, Enlace, First Unitarian Church, Interfaith Movement for Immigrant Justice, NAACP Portland, both chapters of the National Lawyers Guild locally, Northwest Accountability Project,
 Occupation Free Portland, Oregon Education Association, Oregon Immigrant Activists, Park Rose Community, United Church of Christ, Partnership for Safety and Justice, Portland Association of Teachers, Portland Central America Solidarity Committee, Portland Jobs with Justice, Sankofa Collective Northwest, SEIU Local 49, SEIU Local 503, Unite Oregon, Urban League of Portland, Volves Workers' Rights Education Projects.
 Together, these faith, labor, and community organizations form a powerful force for what is right in our community. We represent over 10,000 Portlanders. Each of these organizations has reached out to you advocating implementing the SRI committee recommendations to add Wells Fargo to the Do Not Buy list.
 yourselves. And we support today this pause on corporate investments, but we second what Kyung just mentioned, that we should be clear and go ahead and just add Wells Fargo and Caterpillar to the 2017 do not buy list. Let's not redo work that has already been done.
 you adopted a visionary SRI policy two years ago with robust ethics criteria, a commitment of city resources, and clear process for public input. Two committees, the Human Rights Commission and SRI Committee, have dedicated hours of work on this. You've heard hours of testimony from dozens of community members about Wells Fargo and Caterpillar violating most of the SRI criteria that you yourselves established. What you've said in motion is powerful and visionary, but it's not worth the paper it's written on if you don't implement it.
 If Portland is to be a sanctuary city, we need you to stand up now, today, and stop investing in two of the worst of the worst corporations and commit to do that for the entire year of 2017. These corporations that seek to reap profit from the destruction of indigenous and immigrant communities in the U.S. and around the globe.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Cecilia Beckwith, and I've been a resident of Portland for about four years. And I'm also working with Enlace, and not only am I an activist, but I'm an active citizen in the community of Portland. We're aware that you're taking this recommendation of the Social Investment Committee very seriously. And this has been a long and arduous process. And we really do encourage you. I'm an
 actually encouraged by the Commissioner Novak and Commissioner Fritz's movement today. I thought we would be going to be walking away with absolutely nothing today, considering what has been going on.
 but I think that it's clear that you want to take a stand. You want to separate Portland from what is going on right now in this community, the movement to the right. You want to truly stand as a progressive community, a community that does support its citizens, a community that does stand in support of human rights and dignity, not only in this country but around the world.
 And so I know that this has not been an easy process for you. It certainly hasn't been one for us as members of the community. But your proposal today does move us closer to being that sanctuary city that we envisioned, the place that we really want to be able to call home as a city of Portland, a city that represents all of us and the community that we stand for.
 I really encourage you to include community members in this process, not to just come back to us four months from now and say, this is what we think we're going to do. But there needs to be a way that we are involved in this process as you move forward with this, and I encourage that.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll make sure that, obviously, I'm sure Mayor Wheeler will be aware of this. Now, what I have for you is a signature of about 1,300 active citizens in Portland who are asking you to honor the Social Investment Committee's recommendations. These signatures were collected from the last time we met, which was, what, three weeks ago? Yes.
 So I would like to leave these with you. Thank you. Please do. If you have a mechanism to get back to those people and let them know that, yes, we are going to honor it, we're not going to invest in any corporate securities. And let me just read the amendment again. The council directs the city treasurer to suspend direct investments of cash assets in corporate debt securities until council has approved the city's investment policy in 2017. So that...
 I can't say how many times you've won that we are not going to invest in the companies that you don't like. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next three are Maxine Fuchsen, Ned Roche, and Rod Sutch. And they'll be followed by Oscar Guerra-Vera, Leila Hale, and Peter Miller. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Good to be back. Who would like to go first? Thanks. Thanks.
 Thank you all very much. My name is Maxine Fuchsin, and I'm a member of Jewish Voice for Peace, which is one of the coalition partners in Occupation Free Portland. Part of what I'm going to say today comes from a letter that was written by the Jewish Voice for Peace Rabbinical Council, and I hope that you all received that letter. We sent it to you. I want to start with a quote from one of the rabbis that says, no city in the United States should be invested in corporations that profit from military violence.
 Compassion and equity is what we seek. Saving and not destroying lives is what we are commanded to pursue. That's from Rabbi Lynn Gottlieb. This is such an important time. We are about to face a Trump presidency and all the turn to the right and to fascism. I think that this is a moment where we're really looking for bold, bold leaders.
 We applaud the city's commitment to ethical and social responsible investing. We communicate, and this comes from Jewish leaders from our rabbinical council, leaders in cities who work for justice and peace for the people of Israel and Palestine and all. And while we support the proposal to exit now in investing and take this pause from investments in corporate securities, this amendment, quite frankly, feels a little bit too short-termed.
 There's been an amazing amount of work that was unanimously approved by this council to endorse this policy for socially responsible investments. Let's back it up by putting the companies that have been found to be in violation of the policy on the do not buy list now. Yes, we applaud publicly responsible investment.
 We applaud public investments, but we also want to see these companies, we want to see you act on what you unanimously created. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. My name is Ned Roche. The issues before you today are huge. At stake is the soul of the city we love. At stake are our souls. If we stand in solidarity with the water protectors at Standing Rock,
 If we support the human rights of indigenous peoples in Central America and Palestine, Israel, and if we oppose the huge expansion of prisons required to lock up the millions of people that Trump will arrest and deport, we must, as individuals and as a city, courageously and proudly stand for justice. Not only for ourselves, but also to inspire other cities to find their voice, their courage.
 The towering Jewish teacher, Rabbi Hillel, asked, If not now, when? That is our charge. As Trump's dark clouds begin to block out the light, now is the time for us to take a principled stand. I want Portland's leaders to inspire us all to do the work we need to do, for we need to accomplish nothing less than changing the world. And if not now, when? We start right here, right now.
 Let us move not backward to investing in companies that show an utter disregard for human rights, the environment, the earth, and indigenous peoples, but forward to announcing to the world, which is watching, that the corporate behavior of companies like Wells Fargo and Caterpillar is incompatible with Portland values and will never again be supported by our tax dollars. This vote is either life-threatening or life-affirming. Choose wisely.
 The soul of our city lies in the balance. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Rod Such, and I'm on the Steering Committee of Occupation Free Portland. And I want to begin today by commending Commissioner Novick and thanking him for his statement rejecting the slanderous charges of anti-Semitism that were directed against Occupation Free Portland and against Jewish Voice for Peace.
 Thank you for that. I basically want to say that we are going to be here in four months when you consider again your decision or your determination to invest in corporate securities. We are not going to go away.
 This has been a one-year campaign for us, an even longer campaign for NLASI and the Prison Development Coalition, and an even longer campaign for 350 PDX and the Climate Justice People.
 And it seems to us that what we all have in common here is that we recognize that the city has taken some great positions supporting divestment, disapproving the Dakota Access Pipeline, fossil fuel extraction, and also taking stands for human rights.
 We think the most important thing is you're acknowledging human rights for Palestinians. We presented our research findings to the Human Rights Commission. They agreed. To the Socially Responsible Investment Committee, they agreed. The Student Senate at Portland State University agreed by a vote of 22 to 2.
 So we want to make it clear that we are a broad coalition of community groups in Portland that opposes these investments, and our coalition is growing by the day. And as we face the next four years of Donald Trump, it is more important than ever that our city stands as a beacon for human rights for all, and particularly for Palestinians. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 Thank you. Next three are Oscar Guerra-Vera, Layla Hale, and Peter Miller, and they'll be followed by Sarah Levy, John Chuck, and Joel Benham. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi.
 Peter Miller My name is Peter Miller. I'm with Occupation Free Portland, and I wanted to thank Steve Novick for his amendment to add Caterpillar and Wells Fargo to the do not buy list. And I really appreciate also his comments on the subject of fringe shoes. I don't think we should treat anyone's voices as fringe and try to silence people based on trying to marginalize them. So I think I appreciate that comment.
 I also appreciate the comment by Jennifer Cooperman asking about, I think it was asked about, should the city invest in a fund that's managed in a socially responsible investment way?
 And the point being is that you still need a socially responsible investment policy, and you have a socially responsible policy in your committee and they're charged, which they've worked so hard on in the past year that we witnessed. Some of these people spent 30 hours a week, apparently, working on this policy. And so, you really have the criteria. You've set it up. You had it exercised. And I think it would be the best
 maintain that kind of a policy. So I'm concerned about the four-month process that possibly resets all of this work that's gone on and the process that would have, if you had had a do-not-buy list, would have gone on for the next year, this would have been the list. And instead, four months, it might reset. And I'm worried about the undoing of all the work that everyone has done.
 And I also want to say that by naming the companies like Wells Fargo and Caterpillar, you're uplifting the voices of the community activists and other communities around the country that are trying to hold these corporations responsible by really making a clear statement, a specific statement that would encourage the campaigns of all the people that are working so hard on these issues. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome.
 Layla Hale-Sankofa, Northwest, as well as Portland Parks and Recreation. And I would like to thank you for your work today, and I'm really actually walking away a little more hopeful. I, like other people, thought that we might walk away from this with nothing, and I'm a little thankful that we're moving forward today and that as a city employee...
 who also encourages my youth to be employed by the city. We no longer have to look at our paychecks and know that we're directly contributing to things like the prison industrial complex and the North Dakota Access Pipeline. And as much work as we've gotten done here today, I do want to stress that this is basically putting a Band-Aid on herpes and that we have a lot more work to do as we move forward. I want to make sure that this doesn't stop.
 just much like you said before, to make sure that we're not starting again in April because many, many folks like myself in the community are working three, four, five jobs to make sure that the least among us have what we need. And we're taking time that is very, very precious and that we're not getting paid for to put our life and our blood work into this. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for your service to the city and parks as well. Come on up. We have the next three. Sarah Levy, John Shuck, and Joelle Bienen.
 and they'll be followed by Michelle Boese, S. Brian Wilson, and Stephen Goldberg. So you're here. Okay, why don't you two go ahead, and then we'll call the next group. Thank you. My name is Joel Bainan. I teach Middle East history at Stanford University. I'm also a member of the Chavarah Shalom Jewish Congregation here in Portland.
 I want to commend Commissioner Novick for his words on Wells Fargo and on Caterpillar, and especially for mentioning Palestinian human rights. It's a real issue.
 When we ask Portland to put Caterpillar and Wells Fargo on the do not buy list, there are two components to that measure. One is the fiscal one, but the other one is standing up and calling out those corporations for doing bad in the world. And that's not going to happen for the next four months. And I think that the council is remiss –
 in not taking the opportunity to do that. You've been told that putting Caterpillar on the do not buy list is divisive, controversial, and so on. Doing the right thing is always controversial before it becomes normal. That was the case with ending slavery, ending Jim Crow, achieving women's suffrage, LGBTQ rights, and every other democratic advance in this country. You've been told that
 Putting Caterpillar on the do-not-buy list is unfair because it singles out Israel. Our government singles out Israel by giving it more than $3 billion a year in military aid, more than any other country in the world consistently for the last 40 years. We as American citizens have a right and a duty to express our opinion about what Israel does with our money, including the purchase of weaponized Caterpillar equipment.
 You've been told that the entire mainstream Jewish community is opposed to putting Caterpillar on the do not buy list. There is no mainstream Jewish community. The majority of American Jews aren't affiliated with any of the organizations like the Jewish Federation of Greater Portland that claim to speak for them. The policies of those institutions are undemocratically influenced by their biggest donors, many of whom hold political views far to the right of the majority of the American Jewish community.
 The fastest growing Jewish organizations in this country are Jewish Voice for Peace, If Not Now, Open Hillel, and J Street. Many, perhaps a majority of their members, support putting Caterpillar on the do not buy list. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is John Schuch. I'm a Presbyterian minister. And I'm glad I came here early. I so much appreciated the work of this commission, what you did with the comprehensive plan. This is a great celebration. And I also want to thank Steve Novick's real thoughtfulness and all of you listening to the voices of all these activists.
 and adding back the Wells Fargo and Caterpillar. And I also appreciate Commissioner Fritz's amendment. I don't want to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. I think what you've been saying here is a win. And I think you're going to have people who will come back to make sure that, yeah, we want to make sure that we have human rights issues are at the top of the list of what Portland does. And so...
 I commend you and will be working with you within the next four months to continue to make Portland a great place. Thank you. Thank you both. Okay, you want to take the next three? All right. Michelle Boese, S. Brian Wilson, and Stephen Goldberg. And they'll be followed by Sandy Polasek, Diane Doolin, and Catherine Alder. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Michelle Boese. I'd like to start by thanking you, Commissioner Novick, for your time.
 Obviously, you've done a lot of thinking about this problem, and in my view, you've come out on the right side of it. I appreciate that. I want to address one of the concerns that's been brought up, I think, repeatedly, and I think you made allusion to it earlier, which is that whether companies should actually be held responsible for the use of their products. And I want to point out to the council that,
 That after World War II, IG Farben and Krupp, two of Germany's largest industrial concerns, were actually tried at Nuremberg for their role in supporting the Nazi regime. And they were found guilty of war crimes. So the principle of holding companies liable for how their products are used is well established in international law. And I think you're on firm ground in looking at Caterpillar and Wells Fargo in that light.
 I'm a member of Jewish Voice for Peace and I'm Jewish. If being Jewish means anything to me, it means the idea of tikkun ha'olam, heal the world. And I'm very sorry actually to see members of my community seem to be abandoning that goal and who believe that defending Israel means that we must defend its most xenophobic, its racist, and its most right-wing elements.
 I don't think that's true. I think it's a form of moral confusion, and I think it would be a mistake for the council to buy into it. The settlements, the checkpoints, the apartheid road system that Caterpillar is helping Israel build are wrong, and they violate the human rights of the Palestinian people. They would be wrong if France, Switzerland, or New Jersey were doing them.
 Caterpillar has been a willing partner in these crimes for decades, and our city has an opportunity at this point to say that we won't support injustice with our taxpayer dollars. And finally, I'd like to quickly tackle the most disingenuous argument that I've heard made by the opponents. This is the charge of anti-Semitism.
 The council's received two letters that I know of on this issue. One's from a group of rabbis, and one is from a group of local clergy. They both urge you to vote in favor of including Caterpillar. And I ask you to ask yourselves, is it possible that a group of rabbis are anti-Semitic? What about the chances that some of Portland's most active clergy in the cause of human rights are anti-Semitic? The simple and most obvious answer is none.
 There's no chance that these persons are anti-Semitic. And in the same way, there is no truth to the allegations that adding Caterpillar would in any way be anti-Semitic. Caterpillar's willing complicity in violations of human rights is what has earned it a place on the do not buy list. I urge you to take a stand in the cause of justice and place it there and support Caterpillar.
 Commissioner Novick's amendment. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. My name is Stephen Goldberg. I support the pause, but I also want the city to specifically add Caterpillar and Wells Fargo to the do not buy list to at least signal to those companies that their behavior must change and hopefully will change before you reevaluate your policies next spring.
 Commissioner Fritz, your compassion was never more clear than how you responded to Cindy Corey, her testimony at the prior hearing. But if there ever was a time in our nation's history when our belief in halting human rights violations must go beyond sympathy to action, this is that time.
 The Trump administration will embolden human rights violators like Caterpillar and Wells Fargo as their fear of being held accountable diminishes, certainly on the federal level. Your actions then become all the more important. Commissioner Fish, in a prior life, you and I both worked on labor rights issues. Caterpillar has been a major sponsor of the American Legislative Exchange Council, ALEC.
 which is notorious for sponsoring state legislation aimed at curbing workers' rights, and particularly the rights of public employees. And I can promise you, those rights will be attacked under the Trump administration. And finally, Commissioner Novick, you and I both went to the same law school. I assume we both took classes in international law. Caterpillar is well aware of how its equipment is used.
 Caterpillar, of course, has the right to say to Israel, no, we will not sell you our bulldozers unless we are assured that they will not be used to violate Palestinian human rights. Its refusal to do that, knowing how the equipment will be used, clearly violates the United Nations guiding principles on business and human rights. Guiding principle 19 makes clear that businesses are responsible not just for their own acts,
 but for the acts of their business partners that use their products to cause human rights impact, even if Caterpillar has not contributed to those impacts. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. The three are Sandy Polachek, Diane Doolin, and Catherine Alder, and they'll be followed by Kurt Bell, Esther Nelson, and Bluthala Gores.
 Just before you start, I've seen a lot of people shaking hands in agreement and I appreciate that. We've tried to come up with a solution that can bring our community together. So I would really urge you to not go through the list that we heard loud and clear at the hearing before about why you would like Caterpillar and whichever other companies to be added
 To be clear, I'm saying that we're not buying any corporate securities until they come back with a full public process and hearing with the new administration.
 So if you could, I think, I know that I'm kind of having a very difficult week, not only with losing two of my colleagues who won't be coming back next year, but also because of the Electoral College votes and some of the hideous things that are happening nationwide. So I'm just kind of appealing to your compassion for our fellow citizens, including me. Thank you. Welcome. I'm Diane Doolin, and I'm a minister with the United Church of Christ and Interfaith.
 As you know, here in Central Pacific Conference, our wider church ministries have endorsed the Occupation Free Portland proposal. But for my two minutes today, I would just like to affirm the work that I have experienced in coming to several hearings with the Human Rights Commission and the Socially Responsible Investment Committee and the gatherings here in this chamber where I have heard so many...
 dedicated activists in our community offer their wisdom and the fruit of so many hours invested. And this has all come into being because of the socially responsible investment policy. So I affirm that. I thank you for that. I, of course, too, would love to see
 Wells Fargo and Caterpillar single out in your action today since they have come over and over again to the top of the list of worst of the worst. However, I hear you, Commissioner Fritz. We're all going through a very harrowing period in the history of our nation. And I think to find a way to work together to build in trust,
 is essential, and to find a way to honor the work that people do when they are asked to go do that work and come back with their outstanding results, this too must be honored. And so I ask you to work with those concepts as we go forward through these next several months. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Sandy. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales and commissioners, my name is Sandy Polishuk. I have prepared a statement which feels mostly irrelevant now. I had planned to talk a little bit about the fossil fuel, carbon 200 staying on the list, and to point out that Wells Fargo and Caterpillar work with the Dakota pipeline, so they also have to do with fossil
 keeping it in the ground, our campaign against it. I had planned to point out that...
 They are the worst of the worst. I was going to ask you, and I still do ask you, to divest yourselves completely from Wells Fargo. That includes your banking. We have fabulous local and socially responsible banks and credit unions in our community that you can move your money to that is being asked to happen by the supporters of the Standing Rock Water Protectors that we do that.
 Um, I was going to point out that Caterpillar, that the committee never even mentioned Israel or Palestine, uh, in when they found the reasons to put Caterpillar on the list. They had a whole bunch like tax avoidance and abusive labor practices. Um, and, um,
 That was what I was planning to say. It kind of feels irrelevant now. I have to say, unlike many people, I apologize, Commissioner Fritz. I too am having a hard time. But I don't understand why your amendment changes anything. The community has weighed in. We just heard how many hearings.
 The two committees, the initial SRI committee and then the actual, the temporary and then the permanent committee put in hours and hours of work. I've gone to those meetings. There's at least three staff members there. There's a tremendous amount of work that goes in. And I...
 It feels to me like it's insulting to these citizen volunteers that you commissioners fish so praised to be discounting their work. I don't understand what's going to be different in three months. Excuse me, I need to interrupt you, Grace. I don't understand why you think this is disrespectful. We've heard, we've said, yes, we're not going to buy these companies.
 Saying we're not going to buy any companies is very different than singling out those that are the worst of the worst. There is a financial aspect, but there is also a symbolic and political aspect. And I hope you have been hearing people talk about how important it is right now for these statements to be made by people
 Basically, not doing anything and just putting it on ice, it does not accomplish anything. So I'm sorry, but I find this extremely disappointing. Thank you. You're welcome. This is hard. I had a sermon prepared, and I have to change it. Reverend Catherine Alder and the UCC pastor...
 And I'm here with the faith community, again, to say that we do want Caterpillar and Wells Fargo on that do not buy list now, not four months from now. We don't want it invested in at all. You all just worked on homelessness by creating housing, and Caterpillar is already made 25,000 families homeless in Palestine.
 I know you're concerned about the schools and the lead in the pipes in the schools, and Caterpillar bulldozes water structures in Palestine, making access to clean water impossible. You all work on inclusion, and you look around the room, black, white, Hispanic, everyone here, and Caterpillar builds a wall 30 feet high to separate humanity one from another."
 And Wealth Fargo targets blacks and Hispanics to be put in prison. These are investments that don't match our values. Jews and Christians are tied together through scripture and a shared story.
 We are Jews and Christians and Muslims and atheists, and we cannot abide giving special allowance to Caterpillar, which abuses people with weaponized bulldozers no matter what country it operates in. Caterpillar is violating international law. So I really appreciate...
 Those who have stepped forward to say that we need to do something and we need to do it now. The fear of upsetting some is not a measure for justice. Justice always upsets some. Do the right thing and do it now. Put Caterpillar and Wells Fargo on a do not buy list. Don't wait. Just get that part done. And then look at the investment later. Thank you so much. The next three are Kurt Bell, Esther Nelson, and Hela Gores.
 and they'll be followed by Frank Alfrangi, Nick Covery, and Will Fuller. I'm just going to make one more comment, and then I'll just be quiet and listen to everybody. Don't snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. I'm sorry? Don't snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. Okay.
 My name is Kurt Bell. I'm with the Occupation Free Portland. I'm also with First Unitarian Church and a president-elect of the Unitarian Universalists for Justice in the Middle East, a national organization. And I just want to urge you not to just delay toward debate in April, but to act now to include what Commissioner –
 Novick, we're grateful for his proposal to put Wells Fargo and Caterpillar on the do-not-buy list. Now, in addition to the amendment that Commissioner Fritz has proposed, a very good amendment, but I really urge that both go on. Just briefly, I'd just like to add a couple things about that, why we should not support the reprehensible corporate behavior with our
 investments. We should not make money from these investments. Just since the SRI committee issued its report last September, we know that Caterpillar's deep involvement in destruction of sacred sites in North Dakota, the
 involvement in the pipeline, their involvement, probable involvement in building a wall that Trump plans to build in Mexico. So in Wells Fargo, we've learned of their defrauding of $2 million of their customers and their involvement in financing the pipeline. So this reprehensible behavior –
 needs to be opposed, and we should not put our money and make money from this behavior of these corporations. And I really urge you to put both amendments into the final resolution. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Good afternoon, Hala Gores. I am a Palestinian-American attorney here in town. My family is Christian-Palestinian. I am not here to reiterate what you just heard from a lot of people, including Steve Goldberg, who really nailed it.
 when he talked about the abuses that Caterpillar facilitates for the State of Israel. I want to tell you, Commissioner Fritz, that I hear you loud and clear about not snatching defeat out of the jaws of victory. I also want to tell you that I don't think that these two amendments are mutually exclusive.
 I think that it is important to say to Caterpillar, to send the message to Caterpillar, that they have an opportunity here while you have this four-month period where you have the freeze, for them to have discussions in their boardrooms about their corporate conduct.
 Other corporations heard the voices of activists and governments elsewhere, and they changed lives.
 And they made decisions not to sell services and products to human rights abusers. So I would like you, I'm not going to waste your time saying things that others have said so eloquently, but I would urge you to allow us to talk to you between now and four months from now to talk about what other corporations have done to change and to keep Wells Fargo and Caterpillar on the list. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi. Excuse me. I'm Esther Nelson. And I have put aside my testimony from what I thought it would be a couple of hours ago. I do want to say, though, that from the beginning of this process, when those first corporations were –
 That process has been delayed many times along the way, and conceivably this vote could have been taken some time ago. And with each of those delays, I think we and you have missed an opportunity to make a strong moral statement about corporate culture today.
 All of these corporate, to delay a vote is one thing, but to not vote in any corporations in a sense is to equalize them and just not acknowledge the distinction between corporations with ethical principles.
 corporate culture and the worst of the worst, the bad actors. And it sort of allows the worst of the worst to dodge the bullet, at least for some time. And I would like to think that we would stand up. It's so clear that some of these corporations are a disservice to all of us in their, the way that they operate, the way that they do business.
 that we shouldn't be at all shy and we should sooner rather than later, as soon as possible, list them and take a stand so that they get a message. And I would put Caterpillar and Wells Fargo at the top of the list. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Next three are Frank Afranji, Nick Covery, and Will Fuller.
 and they will be followed by Chris Kufrath, Miles Sisk, and Mark Braverman. Okay, any of those folks come on up. Looks like we may not have all those folks here. Thank you. Go ahead, please. Welcome. Hi, my name is Will Fuller. I'm here not to talk about the C-word or other simple corporations, but to commend you and the city of Portland for what we're really talking about here, which is social responsibility.
 We as a citizenry and you as a government don't endorse profit for the sake of profit. We don't follow the lead of an Atlantic City casino builder in what we do. We talked about seven things the Socially Responsible Investments Committee has concerned about. The environment, health, including the destruction of life through weapons.
 Abusive labor practices, corrupt corporate ethics and governance, extreme tax avoidance, market domination beyond reasonable competition, and finally, human rights. We stand for the fine environment, the good human rights, the proper corporate responsibility, and that's what we're talking about here. We're talking about putting a pause, which I endorse.
 in what we do with corporations to hold them socially responsible in our city, our state, our region, and our people. That is vital to what we stand for. The idea of putting a corporation on a blacklist almost violates that by saying, this is what you can't do, this is what you should not do, but we never have had the policy to say, this is a corporation we can invest in. Now, I favor
 what people have talked about here conveying to the next council a chance to make a comprehensive social responsibility policy i also think we should send these five corporate names to that council nestle walmart credit suisse wells fargo and caterpillar as examples of corporations which violate those those standards please to that and consider one small thing
 Right now, it is more profitable to invest in solar than in coal or oil. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. I'll be super brief because a lot's been said, and I realize you're all tired, and I'm tired. Just give us your name first, please. Christopher Cutra. Thanks, Christopher.
 So I realize that Commissioner Fritz's resolution makes the point of individual companies moot, and I really appreciate that, and I appreciate how comprehensive and thoughtful that is. Two thoughts, however, about it. One is I think it says something very different to have a list of companies that the city is particularly avoiding
 And that can be guidance for citizens as well. It's a statement about the city's practices with investment, and it says something different than just a general policy of not investing in corporate bonds like you were talking about. The other concern is that...
 In four months, the person who first testified was mentioning budgetary concerns. I just want to say, as Commissioner Fritz pointed out, there was a time where none of these investments were happening, and that can certainly be the case. And I would just urge the city council to consider what's more important as a city, the types of humanitarian and social responsibility policies that we have, or a matter of
 $4 million. I believe that Portland can be on the right side of history there. That's all. Thank you. Miles Sisk, Mark Braverman, Mohamed Ousraf, and Ronald Brown. That's the last one I showed sign up. Okay. Come on up, please. Good afternoon. You're welcome. Thank you. Mark Braverman. So just a couple of things. One,
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick. When you had your introductory comments at the last hearing that we were all present at, you said you thought you were going to say some things that were going to be – make you unpopular, but that you were open to having your mind changed. And it sounds like that's happened. And on a broader basis, I think the whole issue with Caterpillar and what I called then the sort of the Jewish family argument, but it's broader than that, I think that's been a very, very powerful and important conversation.
 We've gotten through that, and the realization now is that Caterpillar has to be considered on its own merits, and the whole anti-Semitism argument is specious. And I think I'm going to talk about the future because I think that this is the future, and many people have commented that now as we're going into the dark days of the next four years we're looking at,
 It's going to be more and more important for things happening at the local level to really take the lead in what's going to happen in our country and in the world. So Portland's voice has to ring out loud and clear, and those of us who have been so committed to the idea of supporting Commissioner Novick's idea about the Do Not Buy list, this is because of the powerful symbolic value
 it's not going to make a big economic difference to these corporations whether Portland is in or out.
 But Portland followed by other cities, and we're already starting to hear that from the grassroots of this country. It's hugely, hugely important. Now, I think it's a great idea for Portland not to invest in corporations, but I think we do need to think tactically and strategically about what it means to name names, name companies, and take a stand because Portland will be the first. We will not be the last. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 My name is Mohammed Osrof. I am a Palestinian and I live here in Portland for four years.
 And before I start, like, thank you very much for your time. You know, like, this is precious time and we appreciate that. And I want to thank Commissioner Steve and Commissioner Amanda for their proposal, and I totally support it. We need to pause and think and then come back and say, yes, we don't want to invest in these companies. Yeah, well, why not?
 Caterpillar is a bulldozer who destroy houses, trees, and schools, and we don't want to invest in that. We want to invest in our local businesses here in Portland, and we want to send a message to the world that we are looking for a future. We are looking for a very hopeful future, and we do not.
 agree with any human rights or any type of rights violation to anybody, and specifically for people who have been victims for a really long time, and they are dying every day and every night because of choices that we make here, right now. And really, it's important to say that. Katerbilar
 waltz virgo are really harmful and really we want to do no harm thank you very much thank you thank you very much is that all the folks that were signed up to speak mr brown ronald brown and anyone else who signed up and did not hear their name get called welcome is it okay if i stand sure or any variation okay ronald brown i'm from grayling michigan he's born
 March 9th, 1963, and Michigan Tech, Red Rocks Community College. I'm in the presence of you folks. My pleasure. I thought we'd meet in a different way, but this is great. Anyway, I'm going to start this back about love. Love is what we want. I want love. Do you want love? Everyone, I think everybody wants love. Everybody wants love, right? Right?
 And so that's the place to start. We've got a job to do. It's a big job. Everybody's got, you know, I've called your office. You don't call me back because you're busy doing, fighting the people that don't want to make love and have a loving environment, right? So how do we change this? It's not hard. Look, I'm an arborist. I'm just an arborist. This thing right here is probably one of the most powerful things. We could, look, build this place.
 It's a magnificent place. I go out there and I can skate around and I can play around sacred geometry at work. This is the most beautiful place in the world. Right here. Look, I get to be right here. Part of the curve of everything. Listen, look.
 If you want to talk to the guy in charge, or do you want to talk to the woman that knows everything? Look, I saw that slogan on a refrigerator because I've got to move out of this place. I'm like, oh, that's so right, Cascadia. We're right here in the middle of Cascadia, right on the 45th parallel between heaven and earth. Wait a minute, I don't want to talk politics or religion. I hate that. I don't hate. But I...
 I just want to talk about love. Because if we begin, all they're asking for is change. Change is so easy. No, it's so hard. Thank you. Thank you very much. The only one that begs for change is a baby. And they want it. So just change a little bit. Take those places off your list. And you'll see the change. Thank you. It'll be for the positive.
 We have the request of one more person to sign up to speak. All right. Thank you so much. So is there any further discussion? Oh, I'm sorry. Come on. Didn't realize I left you out for a moment.
 My name is Romero Sosa. I work for VOSS. I'm not going to repeat whatever they say, but I work with immigrants who every day that we have people who recently have in Tacoma
 and thinking about Wells Fargo and Caterpillar, basically thinking about the deaf people who are incarcerated, and those...
 By a person making money or make profit for each person who are incarcerated there, it's not fair that we still ignore that Wells Fargo and Caterpillar, that they try to make the wall that the administration is planning for. I'm just here to support everyone what they've been saying, that just please consider
 To add Will Fargo and Carol Piro, not to buy these things. Thank you. Thank you very much. I have a question. Please. The language that Commissioner Fritz circulated, is that intended to replace the
 The two resolved in the present resolution? Yes, and that's with Commissioner Novick's agreement that we would just not have any of them. So it's replacing the two now, be it resolved and be it further resolved, and also obviously including the two additional companies because we've now included all companies. Say that last part again. So we're not...
 Having any – We're not adding anything to the list because we're doing away with the list. Correct. For now. For now. For now. Obviously, as Treasurer Cooperman said, a big incentive for her to come back as soon as she can with a proposal for how to do this in a fair and objective manner.
 So, yes, we'd be – Just to restate, we're doing away with the list, and then we are – Not buying any corporate securities. Not buying any corporate securities until we just make a decision in April. Correct. So my amendments were to replace the NABIA resolves and the Exhibits A and B. All right. So are we ready to vote on Commissioner Fritz's amendment? Yes.
 I believe it's been accepted as a friendly amendment, so we're now voting on Commissioner Novick's resolution. Well, I think we have to adopt the amendment. We voted on the substitute. That's right. We already put it on the table. Okay, so now we're voting on the resolution as amended by the substitute. Sorry, lost my own procedural thread. Roll call, please. Novick?
 I really appreciate the Council being willing a couple of years ago to establish this concept of socially responsible investment policy.
 As far as I know, this is unique in the country because other jurisdictions have put entire industries on a do-not-buy list. I don't think another jurisdiction has said, we're going to adopt some criteria that could apply to any company in any industry. And maybe we've learned why they haven't done it. It's hard. If you look at various options that have been presented or implicitly presented in this process...
 I thought just looking at the MSCI list that you'd wind up with Nestle and Credit Suisse and Walmart. If we were just listening to public testimony, the only companies, frankly, we heard anything about were Wells Fargo and Caterpillar. So if we based the list just on what we heard public testimony about, then I think we'd be leaving off other companies that...
 violate our principles, but have not drawn attention from organized groups of folks here.
 If we went with what the committee came up with after long hours of deliberation, we'd have a list of 10 companies, which is 20% of the total list that we had, which, as I said, I had a hard time reconciling with the concept of the worst of the worst. So this is not easy stuff, and I want to, again, extend my thanks to all the members of the committee who put in countless hours to –
 Jennifer Cooperman and Kelly Ball, who spent countless hours on this issue, to Katie Schreiber on my staff, who was a significant part of her work on the Council, and to my colleagues, and especially Commissioner Fritz, who's been particularly engaged and today came up with a way to continue this concept into the next administration.
 So thank you all very, very much. Thanks to all of the committed community members, whatever their perspective, who came to meeting after meeting and responded to questions that I had and that others had and followed up.
 I really appreciate it. I understand the resolution we're coming to today is not satisfactory to everybody, but I feel kind of guilty that I won't be here to continue the conversation next year, at least as a member of council. But I really appreciate the process. Well, Commissioner Novick, I know I speak for others that you'll always be welcome back here. Thank you.
 as somebody who's obviously cared about this for a very long time. And so thank you for that remarkable summary. That was an excellent way of putting it.
 I think I've learned from my career as a nurse and my husband's as a doctor that you first do no harm. And from the testimony that I received, all the letters, all of the input, passionate people who are showing up on the Wednesday when you could be doing other things, I really appreciate it and I would like to... So that's why I proposed the amendment to let's not buy any corporations because right now, at least as of right now, I can believe in my government.
 and we really need to be very careful about how we move forward. We need to take risks, though. We do need to say, on principle, this is worth it, whether it's $4 million or what is it. We are going to do it because we're not going to continue investing. I want to admit investing in corporations. I do want to respond to the suggestion that we should stop banking with Wells Fargo. We investigated that under Mayor Adams and we're still doing that.
 I looked at some of the local banks and encouraged them to come in and bid when it was the last time we put out the request for proposals. The smaller banks just can't manage the level of complexity of city payroll, bills, all that kind of stuff. Also, I found that often the smaller banks are going to be investing in some of the same things in the bigger banks. All of this thinking was what brought me to the place
 to come together on the very last item that we're going to be voting on in 2016 under Mayor Hales, under the great guidance of Commissioner Novick, who
 takes on so many difficult projects, the street fee and disabled people's parking permits and a bunch of other things that nobody previously was able to wrestle with and you have done so. So this is also in that category. I do honour Sam Adams who when he was in the office of Sign Now Occupy did have the no to Walmart sign in the window. I content myself with this is what
 this is what democracy looks like, and my Oregon Nurses Association union placard, which I used to carry around in my trunk just in case I need to join a pickets line at any moment. These are the values that I'm coming from. These are the reasons why I support what we've been asked into not buy with these corporations. Let's not buy any of them, and let's continue to work on it so that we can focus in this time of holidays on coming together and helping each other out in these difficult times. Hi. Yes. Okay.
 I want to first say I appreciate a compromise worked out by two of our colleagues, and I think it meets a number of concerns of the council, and I'm going to support it. Someone testified earlier about this being an important conversation. It was you, sir. This is a very important conversation, and I have had some of these conversations with many people in this room in my conference room,
 people of goodwill bringing their passion and their values to us. And I'll tell you where I have gotten torn in this conversation. People of goodwill have made arguments on both sides of some corporations, which we will be debating now and in the future. And at a certain point, I felt like I was almost like an umpire that wasn't clear about what the rules of the game were.
 I was asked to call balls and strikes, and I wasn't sure where the strike zone was. Some companies were being criticized for some of their conduct, but I wasn't spending any time sort of assessing what are the good things they do and then looking in a balanced way. And it was at that point that I started thinking out loud that perhaps we should get out of corporate securities altogether, that people of goodwill may have a concern about almost any corporate security that we are contemplating buying.
 And why are we in corporate securities? And that has led to other conversations, and today you heard a part of it around what's the difference in interest that we can get and risk and fiduciary duty, and those are all very important conversations. I'm prepared to roll up my sleeves and continue to engage this conversation honestly and humbly in the next three to four months. And I think we all have a stake in getting this right.
 I deeply appreciate the testimony, but I also appreciate that people have taken the time to come into my office and share their concerns with me and give me reading assignments and homework assignments, and I deeply appreciate that. The question I will be asking in the new year is to drill down a little deeper into what are the criteria. And, Mayor, I'm interested on the plus side and the negative side. I'm interested in both sides of the balance sheet. Thank you.
 And finally, I want to thank, since we're thanking people who guide us in this process, I want to thank Asena Lawrence on my team because she has brought her own passion and values to this work and has helped me along the way. Asena, thank you for your great work. Hi. Well, I appreciate this discussion. Obviously, this is an area that there's no easy answers, and I think we'll return to this question in a few months.
 But I do appreciate the compromise worked out by Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Fritz, and happy to support it. I guess I do still feel that given that there are –
 you know, $4 to $7 million in interest earnings we're getting from corporate securities, I feel there has to be a path that we can find socially responsible corporate securities to invest in, and I think we should. But I'm very comfortable for now suspending that until we can develop a policy and choose the right companies because I think they're out there. We just need to find them. So I'm very pleased to support this. Aye.
 I want to start by thanking you, Commissioner Novick, and you, Commissioner Fritz, for guiding us through this discussion today and everyone that obviously cares about these issues. I'm really proud that we, under your leadership, have a socially responsible investment policy and that we have committees and citizens that want to weigh in on those issues. It says a lot about us individually.
 And it's how we reflect our values in policy, law, and action here in this building.
 You know, we're all, I think, fearful and appalled by what's ahead, and we all feel that. And actually, some of you may have been here earlier when I was somewhat teasingly telling our housing director, you know, get those bonds for the housing project done now that you need HUD's help for before the inauguration because God knows what's happening afterwards. And we all have that sense, I think.
 But I want to actually give us all, including myself, a little counsel about what's ahead. Because of course, there's much we don't know, but I have some instincts that I think might obtain here.
 Someone called me to interview me. Actually, I've been called and interviewed a lot about what's ahead because of our climate leadership. I just came back from the C40 Summit where we were given an award for the best climate action plan in the world and our leadership on fossil fuels. And that was fun to get that recognition, but there was a lot of anxiety there. These U.S. cities, you know, are they still in the game and serious about this? And I was able to reassure them.
 And based on that, I've had a couple of interviews with national news organizations, and one of them asked, well, is Portland going to be part of the resistance? And I said, well, we're going to be part of the persistence. That is, we're not looking for a fight with the Trump administration, as hard as those words are to say, or anyone else. But we are who we are, and we're going to keep doing what we do. And that may lead to a fight, but the point of that fight
 that word game is not a game at all, is that we are who we are, we're going to do what we do, and if the federal government helps us, wonderful. If they try to contradict us, I don't think that will go well because we are who we are.
 This is a marathon. That's the other instinct. I mean, I hope the Trump administration lasts less than four years, and given some of its shenanigans so far, that could happen. I'm not counting on it, though. I think it's going to be a marathon, and there will be a lot of work, and this work will need to continue into 2017 here. And I know some people may be a little tired because you have put in a lot of time, whether on the city's part or in the community's part, but I say be resolute and be optimistic about our community.
 The people that sit at this table will change a bit, but we are a progressive city, and I'm confident that that will still be true about the next city council. And I also want to show here a measure of deference to Mayor-elect Wheeler, who's showing up for work today as the state treasurer.
 As you may have noticed, we acted on kind of a crowning achievement of my work in local government earlier today, which is a comprehensive land use plan. And if I was a financial planner, I would feel a little strange adopting the comprehensive plan that would guide his work. So I would feel a little strange adopting the financial plan that's going to guide his. You see my point. We all have our skill set. Mine is urban planning, and I'm glad we got that work done today. His is city and state treasuries, and I'm sure he will bring value to this discussion. Okay.
 So on climate and on equity and leadership and justice, local leadership really matters. A couple of you said that, and I've got lots of proof that that's true, because the things we've done in Portland first are getting replicated in other places, whether it's a streetcar or a fossil fuel ban or a climate action plan or a ban-the-box ordinance or a CEO pay surcharge. Thank you, Steve Novick. Those things start here often. I like that.
 and then they spread because they're the right thing to do, and they reflect other communities' values. And I'm confident that this is a community that will continue to put our values into practice, and then others will pay us the compliment of imitation.
 because local action really will matter. So my message is mainly one of good cheer. This is a good place, and that's true both physically and how we take care of one another. That is going to continue to be true, and we will persist.
 Thank you. Mayor Hill, don't hit that gavel yet. I won't hit the gavel yet. He has to gavel this item. Oh, you can gavel this item. Gavel this item. I won't gavel the meeting. I just told you you can gavel this item. Okay. You'll have to read the charter. Okay, the President's taken over. All right. Can I be recognized for a point of personal privilege? You may. Okay, I'd like to call up Rachel Wiggins. Ah, good idea. Who has a proclamation. Oh, wait a minute. Maybe not a good idea. That's a proclamation she wants to read. And the rest of the staff. And the rest of the staff, yeah. Oh, my gosh. All right. This is dangerous.
 Mayor, I hope you don't mind indulging your staff one last time. We're here as people who routinely draft and edit the proclamations that are read in this chamber, and we thought it would only be fitting that the last item on the agenda be a proclamation for you.
 So with that said, whereas Charlie Hales has faithfully served the citizens of Portland for 13 years, first as a city commissioner and then as mayor of Portland, and whereas in his time as mayor, Charlie Hales has championed smart growth for our city, police accountability, equity, opportunities for youth, and an aggressive agenda combating the effects of climate change.
 And whereas no Portland mayor has done more to address housing affordability and homelessness, issuing the city's first state of emergency that rapidly opened hundreds of new temporary shelter beds, implemented innovative new livability pilot, I'm sorry, this is long, pilot programs dedicated over half a billion dollars towards affordable housing, and permanently housed 1,294 veterans as the first West Coast city to meet the White House mandate.
 Mayor's challenge to end veteran homelessness. And whereas he has led the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability during a burst of activity, the 2035 comp plan, the deconstruction of older homes, energy benchmarking, and prohibiting bulk fossil fuel facilities, culminating in a climate action plan that was recently voted best in the world by C40. And whereas Mayor Hales has pursued an agenda of police accountability, developed stronger community police relationships with Portland's diverse groups.
 and passed a new police contract to address a growing police staffing crisis, including new equity and de-escalating training for all officers, resulting in a 50% reduction in police use of force incidents between 2010 and 2015. And whereas he has gotten upstream in the lives of countless at-risk youth, including providing over 1,000 summer work internship placements in partnership with Multnomah County and free access to recreational programming for 12,000 teenagers,
 through the mayor's community center initiative, and whereas he is the first mayor to create the long overdue position of tribal liaison for the city of Portland, and whereas Mayor Hills' love for activating spaces has resulted in a revitalized Ankeny Square, a safer entertainment district in Old Town Chinatown, an up-and-coming Lentz Business District, and the largest real estate deal in Portland through the purchasing of the post office site.
 And whereas every meeting he's attended has resulted in at least one month of work for his staff, because Mayor Hales has never met a problem that he hasn't wanted to solve. And whereas he is beloved not only by Portlanders, but by his mayoral colleagues across the world. And whereas we will be forever grateful for his leadership, his compassion, his ability to dive deep into complicated issues, no matter the work it created for staffers, his dad jokes, and his wisdom.
 And whereas it has been an honor and a privilege to work for and alongside Mayor Charlie Hales as he strived to improve the lives of Portlanders, now, therefore, we, the staff of Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim December 21st to be a day of appreciation for Mayor Charlie Hales in Portland, in recognition for all the great things he's done for us and for Portlanders, and encourage all residents to observe this day.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much, staff, for doing that. I thought you were going to sing, but I'm not. I wanted to see if any of my colleagues had any other additional comments. I know we all probably want to say something to Commissioner Novick and Mayor Hales, but now's the time to do so. Mr. President, could I be recognized briefly? The hour is late.
 Mayor Hales, I want to thank you for 14 years of public service. I read somewhere that you expect to spend the next 18 months on a boat drifting around the world. Let me make a commitment on behalf of this council. Whoever is in charge of the Fire Bureau will be poised at a moment's notice to send the David Campbell fireboat to rescue you if you encounter choppy waters. We should also extend our thanks to Nancy Hales, your full partner,
 in your role as mayor. We've never had a First Lady quite like her. To Steve Novick, Steve, I want to thank you for the four years we've spent together. I've appreciated your smarts. Steve graduated from law school the year I, at the same age that I was a freshman in college, so that tells you a little bit about our differential IQs. I appreciate your smarts, your good humor, and your very strong convictions.
 You get to take a bow, Steve, for a number of things that you've done. I want to especially thank you for the suggestion of bringing the Citizens Utility Board to work here as an outside independent watchdog. And to the public that's watching this, public service is hard work, and we live in very, very challenging times. And I've never seen a time in my life where there are more headwinds. In my view, people who choose to serve deserve our thanks and our respect. Thanks to both of you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Well, it has been an honour to serve on this council for four years and to be flanked by two men who I admire greatly and also enjoy their company.
 I don't say that all the time, about a lot of things that we do in City Hall, sometimes it's really hard. And so I mentioned in the last vote that I so appreciate, Commissioner Novick, the issues that you've taken on as a rookie, and you tackled them head on, and you've made extremely great progress on transportation issues, on emergency management. I've
 in the 20 years I've been watching or participating in city council hearings
 There hasn't been another city commissioner who's put so much emphasis on unreinforced masonry and bolting houses down to the foundation. You know, it literally is the nuts and bolts of where you start if you want to have a better chance of doing OK when we get the big earthquake. So thank you for that perseverance. You took the bureaus that you were assigned and you've been champion for them. Thank you especially for looking after the Bureau of Emergency Communications, which was mine before you arrived.
 have left it better than I left it for you. So thank you for that. Mayor Hales, the police oversight that you have done really has made a difference and is continuing to make a difference and will make the difference that at some point in the next four years, we're going to get a clean bill of health from the Department of Justice and the settlement agreement will be done with. And I feel very confident that the work that you have done has set us on that course. Of course, the comprehensive plan and the infill project, what a delight. Thank you.
 I didn't accept the first time. Actually, it was Susan Kelly who called me in 1996 and said that Commissioner Hales wants you to come in to talk. And I said, what about? Because I thought maybe I was going to get scolded for stopping too many subdivisions in southwest Portland. And she said, the Planning Commission. I said, what? I might be ready for that in about another 10 years. And I said the same thing to Commissioner Hales as he was then. And he said, nope, I think you can do it right now.
 So just as Dr. Alicia Mullen-Capua said last night at the celebration and the tribute video that we gave May Hales, she said, thank you for believing in me and investing your trust in me. And I will continue to try to make sure that that is a good return on your investment.
 So thank you also for just the delight of getting into the nitty-gritty of all the comprehensive plan stuff and having somebody who's kind of thinking of things at the same time that I do and then getting stuff done. Climate disruption, I need to...
 to credit both of you, and I do always use the term climate disruption now. I think I encourage us all to. Climate change sounds like what I'm going to do tomorrow. I'm going to Mexico for a vacation. Climate disruption is the polar ice caps melting it more than they have for the last 50 years. I'm very proud of what we did with the community, and thank you for staying, some of you, all of you who stayed, because many of you have been part of all these successors.
 The work that we've done on banning coal trains, or discouraging coal trains, discouraging oil trains, banning new expanded fossil fuel regulations, we couldn't have done it without the five of us here or without all of you in the community pushing us to get it done. And I'm very proud of that. And as you just said, we're going to have the persistence in Portland to keep doing what we do as well as we can do.
 I do also, as the highlight, thank Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick for supporting me on open and accountable elections. And that is going to continue to make a difference for people of colour, women, other minorities, for opening up our city council chambers, not only for listening to people who, like you, came in to testify, but also being part of the decision-making body.
 i want to just in addition to the ones that your staff meant and mentioned the things that my office has been able to lead with your support um at the paid sick time in 2013 which is now statewide and is setting the national model i know that we're all very proud of that and that we did it together with all five of us and each of us made it better the fix our parks bond in 2014 which we're now fixing a lot of problems in parks thanks to that um
 bonds measure and support for the resolution the binding city policy that we've passed saying that half of all money that is extra or one time or left over half of that has to go to maintenance and for the next from four years when we passed it till um
 we re-evaluate, it's going to go to maintenance in parks, transportation and emergency management because those are the bureaus that have the most challenges in fixing stuff. It's not nearly so interesting to fix things as it is to open new things, although we have done some fair amounts of those as well through everybody's great work. The cannabis work that we've done in 2015, the action that we've just taken, passing the tax on the cannabis sales...
 on recreational marijuana is going to bring some more needed funding for specific programs in the city of Portland. And then finally, these four years didn't work out the way I was expecting them to. And so I really appreciate my colleagues' support.
 over the last 117 weeks. And thank you in particular for your support on passing the Fritz Fairchild Act at the legislature and getting the funding for $20 million so that in just two years, I believe, there will not be any unfenced medians on any interstate throughout the state of Oregon. And thank you for that. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 I would just add that I've served the longest serving current member of the city council. I've worked with a lot of different commissioners and mayors over the years, and I think each one has left an imprint on me and hopefully vice versa.
 But I and I really have grown from serving with all of you and getting to know you. And I think, you know, Commissioner Novick, I think what sticks out to my mind is your incredible consumption of news. I mean, I think you must read three or four papers easily a day, not to mention online journals and things like that. Constant source of knowledge and what's going on in the world.
 and your ability to tackle tough issues. I think given your portfolio, you've found ways to be important. I think, as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, I think reforming our disabled parking permit system was a big challenge, one that you rose to the occasion. Making unreinforced masonry buildings hopefully a thing of the past is another kind of not glamorous but extremely important issue for all of us when the big one happens.
 and certainly transportation. Transportation funding, you've really helped get transportation on a stable funding basis, and I think you've really helped to, you know, don't want to forget bike share. I was the biggest skeptic on this council about bike share, that it would ever happen in Portland. I thought too many people have their own bikes, they wouldn't be interested in renting a bike, and what do you do in the winter? Well, you found the sponsorship that allayed my concerns, that took any general fund out of the equation, and...
 As far as I can tell, Biketown is a rousing success, even on the shortest day of the year, December 21st. And so I want to thank you for that, and I've really enjoyed working with you over these past four years. Mayor Hales, you and I, this is kind of a reunion tour. We served together as commissioners, but it's really been an honor to serve with you as mayor. I really think...
 I've said this to all the interviews about you. You came into office as sort of a planner policy wonk, and you were faced with unprecedented levels of housing and homelessness issues that were top of mind for every Portlander, and police issues that...
 You know, fortunately, through things that largely happened in other cities in this nation, but spilled over into Portland and still do to this day. But issues around running the police bureau, police accountability, police oversight. These were not issues that I think you had any idea were going to be so dominant of your term as mayor. But you've risen to the occasion and you've handled at least both those issues successfully.
 well and professionally. And that's what I admire about you is your calm and your ability to take on tough issues. I mean, it comes with the territory. It comes with being mayor. You have to know how to deal with a lot of different issues and have good staff to help you do that.
 But I think you've really done that. And I think you have a certain moral compass you've stuck to. And that's always important. I think that's important to all of us to have that moral compass. And I think we all do. It's important for us to know that. Otherwise, we're going to be lost in whoever fills the chambers on a particular day on a particular topic.
 And that's not the proper way to govern, in my opinion. So I think you've governed well, and you've risen to the occasion, and I've really enjoyed serving. I enjoy serving with all of you, but I just want to particularly recognize Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick. Thank you for leaving an impression on me in ways I will still discover as time goes on. So thank you. Well, thank you all. Steve, would you have me let Steve go first? Sure.
 So, I've got a lot of thank yous to make. And I'll start by thanking my wife, Rachel, for her unstinting support and unbelievable patience over the last four years. She's been the best damn fifth lady Portland has ever had. I want to thank my amazing staff.
 I'm Chris Warner, Katie Shriver, Eric Anibal, Andrea Valderrama, Tamora Ender, Laura Hansen, Megan Gleason. I'm really sad that I won't be able to come to work with them every day this next four years. And to paraphrase Hillary Clinton, I wish I could just pick them all up and put them in my basket of adorables and carry them with me wherever I go next.
 I want to thank Lisa Turley, Leah Treat, and Carmen Merlot and their staffs. It's been absolutely wonderful to work with those bureaus and the amazing people in those bureaus.
 And Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fritz, I'll be happy to let Carmen know that although actually we did not pass an unreinforced base and rebuilding mandatory retrofit policy on my watch, it sounds like we've got at least two votes for one next year. So Carmen will be delighted to hear that. And I could say a lot about each of my colleagues, but I need to shut up at some point and give the mayor a chance to speak.
 I want to thank you in particular for your commitment to Vision Zero and your commitment to seismic resilience. I'm delighted that resilience is now your favorite word. You taught it to me. And I look forward to hearing it from you many times. I still can't spell it, but you taught me that word. Commissioner Saltzman, I'm always impressed by, first of all, your willingness to take
 that you've demonstrated for years to take any task given you in the city and put your shoulder to the plow and get it done i also really appreciate your willingness to say what you think about any issue regardless of the political consequences any number of times i've gone back to my office after a council session and said i can't believe that dan saltzman said that but god i'm glad he did commissioner fritz i want to thank you for your dedication to low-wage workers
 And I also want to honor you for your sense of humor. Not everybody knows that Amanda Fritz is a laugh riot, but I sit next to her and we spent the past four years passing silly notes back and forth to each other and cracking each other up. And I'm really, really going to miss that. Mayor Hales, I want to thank you again for your work on the comprehensive plan. It's absolutely fantastic that you returned to City Hall at this particular time for that
 But I also want to honor you for, in the past four years, being a man of the left. When you were elected, I think a lot of progressives in the city thought, well, Charlie Hales is kind of a corporate guy. He's about as conservative as you get for mayor of Portland. But it was Charlie Hales who said, we're not just going to ban the box. We're going to ban the hell out of the box. It was Charlie Hales who decided again and again to push the envelope on climate disruption.
 Charlie Hales supported reviving public financing of campaigns, and Charlie Hales voted to impose a tax surcharge on companies that pay their CEOs more than 100 times what they pay their typical worker. So on behalf of the Democratic Socialists of America, Mayor Hales, I want to extend you an honorary membership in that organization. Thank you very, very much.
 Well, thank you. I'm sorry if I drew it. I do want to address an elephant in the room, which is I am acutely aware that I am the first city commissioner in 24 years to lose reelection. I'm also acutely aware that I was the city commissioner who came up with a funding mechanism to address street repair and traffic safety, which the city had needed for 30 years. And I want to say I'll take that trade.
 If I had to choose between passing the gas tax and getting reelected, I'd choose passing the gas tax every time. If I had to choose between beating Chloe Udaly and beating Paul Romaine, I'd take beating Paul Romaine every time. And I want to say one more thing about that gas tax campaign. We started with 55% support in the poll. Every pollster will tell you that if you're doing a tax measure, especially one where you know you have organized opposition –
 You don't want to go ahead unless you start with more than 60%. That's what the pollsters told Sam Adams when he tried to raise money for transportation in 2008, and he had a proposal that started 55% and the pollsters told him, don't go. We decided to go, even though I did think it was a long shot. I thought the odds were we were going to lose.
 And even if we lost, I think that was, I still would have thought that was the right decision. Because we face in this city, in this state, in this country, big problems that aren't susceptible to politically easy solutions. And I'm glad that in this one city, in a small way, I made the decision to push ahead with a measure that was probably going to lose. And we got lucky and won.
 And I hope that that will inspire other leaders in this city, this county, this state to occasionally go for it, even when the pollsters tell you not to. Now, I thought a lot about what my last few words would be as a city commissioner. And I realized that I would disappoint Commissioner Fish and Brad Schmidt and Dirk Vander Hart if my last few words were not a quote from a classic rock and roll song.
 And I was having a really hard time figuring out what those words should be. But then just today, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inducted Journey. So it's obvious what my last three words should be.
 Don't stop believing. Well done, Steve. Well done. Well, thank you all. And the only thing I'll add to these good comments in confirmation and rebuttal are this. One, we've done a lot of work together. I have teased my colleagues a little bit about how much they're going to enjoy my departure, because we have, particularly this year, brought a lot of things home to fruition that
 took a lot of work. And we've also done a lot of work as teams. Nick, you and I took on the reputation, the damaged reputation of our public utilities and a backlash that might have
 torn city government apart and Because of the commitment that we've had to doing the right things the right way and cleaning up any inconsistencies or improprieties we're able to face our citizens and judges and anyone else that wants to Put us through our paces and say we're spending your water and sewer money appropriately properly and thoughtfully and thank you for that partnership
 Dan, you and I have taken on housing in a very big way, and it's making a very big difference, as we just saw today. Amanda, yes, it's been a pleasure to work with you again on planning our city because it really matters. And it will pay dividends beyond our lives because cities last a really long time.
 And Steve, your courage on transportation funding is a model, and I'm so appreciative of that partnership. It was hard at times. It got nasty at times. But you got the good thing done.
 This has been a great season in my public service. I don't know what my future public service will be. It won't be elected office. But this has been a joy and sometimes a trial. But so much good has been done for this good place. And I have one small gift to leave you with, and I think it's particularly apt that it's today, and that is...
 Mayors have a ceremonial gift that we give to someone of importance when they come to our city. And my wife, the wonderful First Lady of Portland, Nancy Hales, is something of a fashion person.
 person. And she had the bright idea of, let's have a local fashion designer design a fabric and then make a men's tie and make a woman's scarf out of that. And I had the privilege of giving my very first of those two gifts to the President of the United States and First Lady Obama, and I have the privilege of giving the last of those gifts as your mayor to the five of you because the image of the Tilikum Crossing that
 shows the sustainability of our city, the beauty of public works, well-built,
 and above all, particularly in this room with these people, the ability to get good things done for a good city, I can't think of a better symbol. So wear it with pride, and remember me, and I won't be wearing a tie for the next 18 months. But I'll think of you all often. Thank you very much. Bless this city. Bless you all. You get the final gavel, yes. We are adjourned for 2016. All right. It's a done deal.
 Thanks, you guys.