okay all right 1349 all right are we ready good morning everyone and welcome to the december 30th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll novick
 Here. Fritz. Here. Fish. Saltzman. Hales. Here. Good morning, everyone. We have a relatively brief agenda today, and I think we're going to have Commissioner Saltzman because we do have some emergency items on it. Before we move to communications, we have two items being pulled from consent that I know of, 1343 and 1349. Are there any others? Yes.
 Okay, then let's move to communications, please. Item 1341. 1341, request of Kirsten Davis to address council regarding homelessness in Portland. Davis, come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning. So this will be a thoroughly truncated version of what you have before you. Thank you.
 I will just read part of it and kind of summarize part of it. As you know, Portland and many other places are in a state of emergency regarding housing and homelessness, which at least in part is the result of the corporatization of our society and the concentration of wealth in the top 1%.
 Too many corporations pay their employees less than a living wage, send jobs overseas, don't contribute their fair share of taxes to our society, and all after using our public coffers for their specific infrastructure needs. Not only are homeless, but our schools and our roads testify to this state of affairs.
 As more and more ordinary, hardworking people find it impossible to pay the exorbitant rents in our cities, I predict that the homelessness problem will only grow and intensify a tragic result of national policy. There are a few measures that I feel...
 Partland can take, and you may already be considering some of these. I would really love to see an ongoing city policy whereby rental buildings of more than 10 units are required, ongoingly, to reserve 30% of their units as being affordable housing. And this can be subsidized with taxes on things like takeout meals or other non-essential goods.
 I would also like to see a really high tax rate on developers building these outsized McMansion-type homes because they just drive up the prices of homes in the city. And if that $25,000 demolition tax can be reconfigured, that could also help to go towards affordable housing.
 The other thing I would love to see Portland do, Oregon and Texas are the only two states that do not allow inclusionary zoning.
 And I would really like to see that ban repealed. So if you could, I know that it's not necessarily your purview, but if you can put pressure on the state legislature to please repeal that ban, I think that could really help. These different measures I think can help a great deal. But in general, I think we need to do everything we can to,
 make this country work for the average person and to reclaim it from the greed of the corporations and the developers who are using it for their own ends without regards for the consequences to the larger community. The only real answer that I see is intelligent policy overall. So I guess my final request
 is that you use your position of power to require any corporate entity that comes to Portland looking for opportunity, that they pay a truly fair share of taxes, living wages, and full benefits for all employees. And they pay for their own infrastructure needs. Do not expect the taxpayers to pay for that.
 for them and to respect the rights of humans in the larger environment. You know, if they want to come here and take advantage of the community, we really don't want them here. And anything less than maintaining these values will result in the many tents we see outside and the many more homeless people we don't see living in their cars or doubling up with relatives. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. And keep up your advocacy, please, as a citizen, because those legislators might listen to us, but they also especially might listen to you.
 I will do that. We did have the repealing the ban on inclusionary zoning in the last session, and Commissioner Saltzman and the mayor put a lot of time in down in Salem. So as the mayor says, it's going to be on our agenda for this short session. And so if you can become connected with the advocacy groups and help to put pressure on your legislators as well as others, that would be really helpful. Okay, I will do that. Thank you. Thanks very much, and thanks for coming. Thank you.
 okay uh we have no other communications item this morning so let's go to write to consent we have two items pulled any others then let's take a vote please on the balance of the consent calendar hi fritz hi saltzman hi hails hi um why don't we go ahead and take those now item 1343
 I just need to read it. 1343, authorized settlement between Oregon AFSCME Local 189 and the City of Portland through its Portland Police Bureau regarding employment claims. Okay. There's no objection. This needs more work. I'm going to refer it back to my office. And then item 1349 was pulled for testimony. Approved council minutes for January through July 2015. Lightning, did you want to speak on this? Come on up, please.
 Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the reasons why I pulled this item is that I wanted to have a clear understanding on how long these minutes are retained. I know in some states they retain the records for one to possibly three years, and I wanted to make sure that we retain these indefinitely and they're put in the archives.
 Another issue that I wanted to have an understanding is on the video itself. A lot of times we have meetings that are set and we miss another meeting, say, happening at another location, such as a lot of times I want to go to Portland Planning and Sustainability meetings. Right.
 My understanding, they don't do videotape, and I'd like to know what the requirements are if we can have video. So when we're having meetings at one location, we can also go back at the end of the day and take a look at the video of the meeting at another location. So I wanted to know what the requirements would be to have video. Another issue is I want to have a more clear understanding on the open meeting law issue.
 As far as pertaining to special committees, neighborhood associations, various other groups that are set up, I want to have access to their minutes if it falls under the open meeting law. And I'd like to be able to review what they're doing at these special committees and have more access to the information. So, again, why I pulled this is just to have an understanding on the minutes, on the –
 retaining the minutes for longevity in the archives, and also having access to more video at several other locations so I don't miss those meetings.
 Good questions. I think the auditor's office can obviously answer some of those questions that I can't answer. Maybe other members of the council have answers to some of them. The retention issue, I think it is, in effect, indefinite, right? It's going to the archives. That's correct. The written minutes are permanent. And the reason that we have the written minutes is that the videos are not permanent, and the reason for that is because videos change. We no longer have beta or VHS. Presumably at some point they won't have the formats that we have now. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 And then the other questions that you asked, Lightning, I was under the understanding that the Planning and Sustainability Commission is videotaped and broadcast. It used to be because Commissioner Leonard had it started when I was on it to keep an eye on me. I will double-check on that and contact the author. But not all commission meetings are just because of the expense and the difficulty of having Portland Community Media crews at all of the meetings that are held.
 Okay, my only question to that, if it is considered under the open meetings law to be a quorum and have enough commissioners present.
 minutes have to be taken under the law. Correct. Plain and simple. It doesn't matter the cost. The minutes do, but they don't have to be videotaped. That is true. The answer to the neighborhood association minutes, yes, those are required to be available to the public, and you can check with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to find out how to get those. Okay. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Good questions. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We're here today to support Mr. Lightning's position
 And also we have a concern that I'm sure you're aware that the state of Oregon got an F from the organizations that grade transparency. You got an F, including Portland. So when we do these type things and you put them on consent agenda and you deprive your citizens of the discussion you just had,
 explaining some things. If you look at the title of this item, there is no way to understand what it is. It's just the minutes for a couple of months or three months or four months. There's no in-depth conversation that you just had. And that's our suggestion, that you do not put this stuff on consent agenda. Consent agenda should be paying bills.
 They should be very regular things. They should be non-controversial stuff or non-informational stuff. This stuff is important. This is the minutes of the meetings. And it takes a little bit of explanation for the viewers to see it on TV to figure out what you're talking about. For us that come here often, maybe we understand it. But if somebody's watching this on television and reads that article
 I know they don't have a clue of what you're doing and that's your problem You need to tell the people of this city what you're doing a lot. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both Okay, so this is a report as their motion to approve it For the discussion the enroll call on adopting the report and approving the minutes for those six months Novick I
 So I very much appreciate the discussion, and the reason we have a consent agenda that's published is so that anybody who does have questions, they can pull it at any time. If there's nothing controversial, then it can continue to go through. Excuse me. I continue to be concerned about adopting six months' worth of minutes at once. I know that the...
 City Auditor's Office and the Council Clerk's Office is greatly understaffed, and I appreciate the diligence in getting it done. When I was first on the Council, we were approving minutes from many years past, never mind many months past. I would certainly support more staffing for the Council Clerk's Office so that we could have the minutes approved every month rather than every six months. My staff don't have the capacity to go through all of the minutes, and with my accent sometimes things are not quite what I said.
 And I can't remember what I actually said quite some time later. So I acknowledge that it is a staffing issue and just want to call that to the council's attention because I agree with Mr. Walsh that it's a transparency issue and that if we could have more timely minutes for those who are not able to watch a video or to look through the e-files, I think that would be helpful for citizens if we had summary minutes as well as verbatim minutes. Thank you for your work in the council clerk's office and city auditor's office. Thank you.
 Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Let's move on to regular calendar, please. Item 1350. Authorize a participating agreement with U.S. Bank National Association for Fleet Credit Card Services for fuel, services for fuel for a not-to-exceed amount of $4,250,000 for five years. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor, Council. I'm Barb Gibson, Procurement Manager. Today you have before you the Chief Procurement Officer's report recommending the contract award to U.S. Bank National Association for the Fleet Credit Card Services on behalf of the Bureau of Internal Business Services, City Fleet.
 The contract cost is based on the purchase of approximately 250,000 gallons of motor fuel for the City of Portland vehicles, for a total not to exceed $850,000 per year or $4,250,000 for the five-year agreement.
 In accordance with city code, the city is able to participate in cooperative procurements without requiring additional competition for establishing price agreements for the purchase of goods and services. Under this authority, the contracting agency must have used a source selection method that is substantially equivalent to that of the city. The Western States Contracting Alliance competitively solicited this agreement.
 The state of Oregon issued a corresponding participating agreement allowing municipalities to utilize the agreement as required by city code. The city publicly noticed its intent to utilize this agreement on November 24, 2015, and no comments were received.
 Don DePeros from City Fleet is here to answer any technical questions you may have. If not, I will turn this back to Council for any questions regarding the solicitation process.
 So a couple questions just how this works. So this is a not-to-exceed contract, total of $850,000 a year. That's mostly for the cost of the fuel itself, right? Then U.S. Bank is going to charge us a fee, presumably, for the use of the credit card. Is that built into this agreement, Sean, or?
 I don't know that for sure, Mr. Mayor. I can check on that and find out for you. Yeah, but presumably if this was competitively bid for multiple jurisdictions, they got the best deal they could from the bank in terms of how much of a fee we're going to be charged for the transactions. Other questions? Thank you. What's the price of fuel at commercial stations compared with city-owned fuel tanks? Yes.
 We're on a regular basis right around 25 cents per gallon cheaper than what you can get at a regular retail fueling station. And we don't pay road tax right from the very beginning. And so it's actually very substantially discounted when we get it. State or federal? We don't pay state or federal gas tax? Federal tax we do pay, but not the state. Not state. Okay. And which bureaus use these carts and how much? Okay.
 There's the two primary bureaus are the police bureau and the fire bureau. There are a couple of other cards out there, such as government relations has some cards, but that's primarily the main people that take advantage of this card. And we have 10 fueling stations citywide, is that correct? Presently, we have nine. We're in the process of putting number 10 in place right now. We don't have one on the west side, so we have nine on the east side, is that correct? That's correct. Thank you.
 Thank you. And then what are the accountability mechanisms to make sure that the use of these cards is minimized? All these cards are actually attached to a vehicle. They aren't attached to a person. And so the card is part of the vehicle, I guess you'd say. When the vehicle is issued, we issue the card with it. It's really up to the Bureau as far as the monitoring and regulating the actual usage of the card. But that card is for that specific vehicle.
 And when they go to the fuel pumps, they have to enter into mileage and some other information in order to obtain their fuel from it. And they pay the price minus the road tax of that particular station, right? That's correct. There's no particular discount. So is there any incentive for a driver to find the cheapest gas in an area rather than the one that happens to be most convenient? No.
 No, there really isn't. A lot of the retail fuel stations accept the Voyager card, and whoever accepts it is where they're allowed to go presently.
 So I realize I voted for putting out this procurement, and I appreciate your diligence in putting it out. Mayor, I think this might be an opportunity for us to save some money without cutting jobs, because if we're paying 25% more for fuel at a commercial station, we're subsidizing the gas companies rather than utilizing our own fuel. I'm wondering if we could set this over for a week or so, because I'd really like to put in at the same time some accountability mechanisms and perhaps even reduce the amount.
 to encourage, for instance, the fire bureau to take the time to go to the city fueling station, which is way cheaper, and then otherwise to make sure that the cars that are using this are finding the cheapest gas in the station, which, you know, I...
 that. I think most of us do that. We know our area. We know where the cheap gas is. On the other hand, you sometimes run out and you get from a more expensive one. If I had a credit card that wasn't going to come back and bite me, I probably wouldn't really put so much effort into making sure that the fuel I'm getting is the most cost effective. MR. Yes, I'm certainly open to taking more time with this and making sure that we minimize its use. Aside from the fact that under
 Under our climate action plan, I hope we significantly reduce our use of gasoline motor fuel overall anyway. And we're going to purchase, I hope, more electric vehicles this year and keep shifting the fleet away from fossil fuel. But you're right in terms of using this versus going a few extra blocks to get to a fueling station. I think we've got to build it.
 pretty strong incentives and controls into the system to get people to do the economical thing rather than the convenient thing wherever feasible so i'm not i'm not sure we're there yet either so i'm i'm per unless there's some operational reason why january one's going to come and in all life as we know it will end if we don't do this okay anyone else have any comments or questions right
 Thank you both very much. So unless there's anybody who wants to testify on this, I'm going to plan on sending it over. So let's set this over to our second meeting in January. Do you want to do that? It's a report, so there isn't a second meeting. Right. Just set it over for two weeks. Please. That work? Okay. So we'll continue this item for two weeks and bring it back on the regular agenda then. Thank you. Okay. 1351.
 UKG Contractors, Inc., for $832,000 for the Walters Hill radio site upgrade. Well, this is a long-awaited little project. All right, Jeff.
 good morning mayor council barb gibson again uh today you have the chief procurement officer's report before you uh recommending an award to 2kg contractors incorporated for the walters hill radio site upgrade project on behalf of the bureau of technology services the construction contract based on the bids received is 832 000 dollars
 The original engineer's construction estimate was 450. In August...
 The city issued invitation to bid 107 for the previously noted project, and in October, two bids were received. Two KG contractors was deemed responsive to the bid requirements of the solicitation, and they have identified 35% of the subcontracting dollars going to minority women-owned and emerging small businesses.
 Jeff bear is here with me to answer any technical questions you may have about the project if not I'll turn it back to you okay maybe maybe you get off easy on this one that's the whole point thank you anyone want to speak on this item if not then let's take a roll call vote please no that I know this has been a somewhat controversial project in Gresham I'm glad to see it coming to fruition because it's really important for our emergency communications hi
 saltzman yes i'm too i am too glad that we were able to come to agreement with city aggression who had some concerns about this so good work bye
 Niels. Well, Jeff, thank you, and Fred Miller and others that worked so hard to get this to a non-event where we've got agencies working together cooperatively to make sure we've got a safe and effective radio system and we have peace in the larger community in terms of the local impacts of what we have to do to make the system work. So the fact that this is a non-event doesn't mean there wasn't a great deal of effective work done, and I just want to say thank you for that. All right.
 Okay, 1352. Increase contract with SAP Public Services, Inc. in the amount of $556,548 for a total not to exceed amount of $7,008,088 to acquire software licenses and maintenance services for the city enterprise business system. Good morning, Satish. How are you? Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council Members.
 I'm Satish Nath, Enterprise Business Solutions Manager in OMF, and I'm here to comment on the SAP contract amendment. In 2006, Citi entered into a 10-year contract with SAP America to use SAP software as the enterprise system. The contract supports the implementation and use of SAP for human resource, financials, and asset management solutions.
 The initial implementation that was completed in 2009 implemented about 57% of the software. Since 2009, Enterprise Business Solutions Division of OMF has continued to stabilize those solutions and add some of the remaining modules that were purchased, and today we have increased the percentage from 57% to 71% of what was purchased.
 Increasing the use also requires increasing the licenses with SAP. And in this contract amendment, I'm requesting additional funds to be in compliance with SAP licenses. I'm here to answer any questions. So where does that additional funding come from? EBS internal service rates. Paid out of rates from all the bureaus? Yes. So as usage rises, rates have to rise? Absolutely. Okay. Other questions for Satish? Sure.
 thank you very much thank you anyone want to speak on this item then let's take a vote please novick aye hi fultzman hey thank you very much aye okay 1353.
 Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Northeast Gleason Street and Northeast 90th Avenue bridge replacement project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, the proposed bridge replacement project will demolish the existing bridge structure. Pedestrian facilities will be improved at the site with a possible addition of a pedestrian crosswalk. People.
 PBOT has been in communication with the relevant property owner, the Central Bible Church, and their support of the project. They'd be compensated for both the slope easement and temporary construction easement. And I'll turn it over to Marty Maloney for further elucidation. Thank you.
 Yeah, good morning mayor commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with the Pivot right-of-way Commissioner Novick did a wonderful job of explaining the ordinance I guess I just wanted to reiterate that I've spoken to the property owner and the property owners representative and They understand the project and the need for the right-of-way acquisition and acquisition
 So really, other than that, I can turn it back over to council. And if you have any other questions. I'm just having trouble visualizing this. Northeast 90th and Gleason, there's a bridge? Yeah. You know, you can't actually see it when you're coming up to it. And I didn't. How did I miss it? I asked bridges and structures the same thing. But when you go out there, you go by it real quick. But if you're down on the property owner's property, you can actually see it. And really all they're doing is it's an old bridge that they're infilling. Yeah.
 Just a this is just a little local stream course or something that's underneath it. Yeah, it's just real real smile Okay, so I got six blocks from I 205 exactly. Yeah, and you can't see it at all Yeah, but live in the city for 35 years and managed to missed it. Yeah, I'm over that numerous something every day, you know Okay other questions. Thank you very much. And is there anyone else wants to speak on this item? I
 If not, then it passes the second reading, 1354. Approve hourly rate increase for on-street parking in the downtown meter district to better manage parking and provide a more safe and reliable parking system to be implemented after the 2015 holiday shopping season. Second reading, roll call.
 Colleagues, I wasn't here, but it's my understanding that the last time the council approved a meter rate increase, it was somewhat controversial. This time, thanks to the work of PBOT staff and our stakeholder group, we got an almost unanimous recommendation from the stakeholder group for this rate increase. And they did such good work that nobody testified against this proposal last week. Thank you.
 I want to thank Melissa McCready and Judith Gray of PBOT in particular for their work and Eric and Nebel of my staff. I want to thank the stakeholder subcommittee members who took time out of their day to testify at the first meeting, Tony Jordan, Mushtaba Ali, Reza Farhudi, Ben Schoenberger, and Nicole Knutson. I want to say that one thing I'm particularly pleased about here is that we've restored the appropriate balance between the cost of on-street parking and garage parking.
 One of the reasons I asked for the Transportation Bureau three years ago was when I read Tom Vanderbilt's book, Traffic, he made traffic management sound fascinating. And one piece of traffic management is parking management. And the book pointed out, following up on the research of Donald Shoup, that –
 A lot of urban traffic consists of people circling the block looking for a place to park. And it's impossible to eliminate that entirely, but we should do what we can to minimize it. And our policies actually have been encouraging that in the past few years because for certain time periods it's cheaper for people to park on the street than park in our garages. So people have an economic incentive to circle around looking for a place to park on the street. Right.
 Obviously, from a traffic management perspective, you're much better off getting people off the street and into the garages. So what this proposal will do is restore the appropriate balance, make it somewhat more expensive to park on the street than to park in the garage, so that we'll have a proper incentive to get people off the street. So that is my particular nerdy reason to be excited about this particular rate increase. Thank you very much to everybody again. Hi. Great.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner Novick. I was here in 2009 when we last increased the parking rate, so doing it now is quite some time later and seems reasonable, and it was very controversial in part because of the beginning of the recession, and it was very hard for everybody to be able to manage. I particularly appreciate with this proposal, with this proposal,
 that there's also a stated plan to look at providing garage parking for evening workers in the retail and custodial care industries. And so that's something that I'm personally interested in and also I believe is an important component of this plan.
 It does come with a favorable recommendation from the Portland Business Alliance and downtown retailers with the stipulation that we continue funding the downtown marketing initiative. And so that's something that I am aware of and very pleased that they have continued, that they support this raise. And we do want to keep our downtown a vibrant and active place, and I think these regulations will do that. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Saltzman?
 Well, I appreciate all the good work that's gone into this proposal, and it was evidenced by nobody testifying against this. And I am glad to understand and learn that there will be more 90-minute meters replacing one-hour meters. I think that's a step in the right direction. And also that the meters terminate at 7 p.m. I think that's very important for, as we've talked about, for people who work downtown in the evenings. So I think keeping 7 p.m. is important.
 is a good hard time to make the parking meters free thank you I else yeah great work there are times when we have to increase taxes or fees when it's not consensual but this time you've reached an amazing level of consensus and that's an impressive piece of work so thank you for bringing a good idea forward in a very untroubling way I 1355
 Assess benefited properties for street sidewalk and stormwater improvements in the Northeast 52nd Avenue and Alberta Street local improvement district roll call please Novick aye Pritz aye Saltzman aye Hale aye 56
 authorize a competitive solicitation for the purchase of security services for Smart Park garages and the Portland Streetcar facility at an estimated amount of $4 million. Roll call, please. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hale? Aye. And 1357. 1357.
 Extend contract with Central Parking System of Washington, Inc. through March 31, 2017 with an administrative option to extend one additional year through March 31, 2018 to manage and maintain six Smart Park parking garages. Roll call, please. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Hale. Aye. And 1358. Aye.
 Authorize 24 contracts, 8 with architectural firms, 8 with landscape architectural firms, and 8 with civil engineering firms for services on an as-needed basis for a total not to exceed amount of $250,000 per contract. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Mary Ann Kesson.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the council. My name is Marianne Kassin. I'm the manager of the Parks Replacement Bond Program, and I hope that you will agree with me that I have more good news today. We are bringing forward 24 contracts. We started working on this in July, and
 It was a competitive process, and we did a lot of outreach to get to this point. The concentration areas are in civil engineering, landscape architecture, and architecture. The total amount for each contract is $250,000, but it will be divided up into much smaller task orders and will get us through the next three years. As you know, there's seven focus areas within the bond, but this will work on all of them.
 And this diagram shows you the rollout for all the projects, and I've circled the ones where we hope to use these on-call contracts. Obviously, a lot of them are over this. These are for smaller contracts, so a large proportion of the contracts will continue to be the RFP program. But where necessary, we'll love the flexibility to use these smaller contracts, get them on board quickly and efficiently.
 The smaller consultants like this system as well. We've been told they spend as much as $10,000 putting the RFPs together. So to have this all up front saves them and us time and money.
 The use of these contracts will not be limited to the bond. They will also be used for our ongoing CIP projects. There's currently 212 projects on the list, so our other staff that are involved in construction, oversight, planning, et cetera, will also have access to these contracts. And CIP stands for Capital Improvement Projects. Thank you. Sorry. Okay.
 This is just one page of the five-page list of ongoing capital improvement projects that are in the works right now. It will also enable us to act quickly when there are partnership or emergency situations where we need to get consultants going quickly.
 When it comes to minority women and emerging small business utilization, we worked extra hard because we know this is such a priority for everyone. Our outreach included two in-person events at AWAMI, one at NAMCO, the Contracting Board, Partners in Diversity, and we contacted all the chambers of commerce, HIPAA,
 Hispanic, Asian, et cetera. We were able to put together a strategic plan with the wonderful help of the folks at procurement as well as Portland Park's diversity staff about what's the best way to get the word out. And that's why we took a little extra time to put the process together and get as diverse a pool as we could
 I've got these numbers parsed a million different ways, but our overall utilization is 54%. The best representation is in that field of architecture where we have 75% and civil engineering is at 30%.
 Finally, you'll be seeing more of me in the months to come. These are the RFPs in the horizon in the next couple of months, including the ones for our maintenance facilities, Ventura Park, and Pioneer Courthouse Square. We still need a CMGC for that. Can I answer any questions? Questions? Great presentation. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. No, thank you.
 I am tremendously honored and proud to be part of implementing the bond measure that the generous taxpayers of Portland passed last year and to work with Mary Ann Kasson and our whole team at Parks. I'm particularly proud that we're putting our money where our mouths are in terms of equity and investment.
 involvement of minorities, women, and emerging small businesses. 75% in architectural services. Commissioner Saltzman and perhaps some of those folks who serve on the Design Commission or some of our other development services commissions. It's even the ones who are not starting out as state of Oregon certified businesses are committing to using subcontractors to increase the amount of money that's going to folks that it doesn't,
 sometimes go to. So I'm very, very proud of this ordinance, and thank you very much for all your hard work. Saltzman? Yes, this is extremely good work and very high minority women and emerging small business participation, so good work. Thank you.
 Well, it may be obvious because resume building is important in any field, but having worked in the consulting engineering firm for 10 years, giving these small firms this kind of traction of having actual project experience with a major governmental entity, it's remarkable.
 very valuable to their future. The dollar amount of current income is great because you keep the firm going, but its long-term value is enormous for these companies. So that's why getting this kind of performance is what we want.
 as a city, but it also does a huge service to those firms. So great work. I'm going to vote for this only on the condition that in the future the Parks Commissioner bring us an ordinance that changes Mary Ann Kasson's title from Replacement Bond Manager to the Irreplaceable Replacement Bond Manager. Aye. Thank you, Mary Ann. Okay, let's take 1359. Okay.
 Authorize the restoration of Kelly Days to Portland Fire and Rescue Deputy Chiefs in the Emergency Operations Division. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This is an important tool to provide the chief.
 that will ultimately improve her ability to manage the Bureau, but also to provide, reduce the use of overtime. And with that, I'll turn it over to Chief Jansen. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. This ordinance is to provide the Kelly relief days for the Portland Fire and Rescue Deputy Chiefs in emergency operations.
 Kelly Day is actually a day off provided to all of the firefighters who work on the front lines in emergency operations in order to reduce their assigned work week from 56 hours to 51.69%.
 So Portland Fire and Rescue provided these Kelly Days to emergency operations deputy chiefs until fiscal year 2013-14 when it was determined that the Kelly Relief Days were a negotiated benefit for local 43 members to which non-represented employees, such as emergency operations deputy chiefs, weren't entitled. The main reason for the determination...
 was that providing the Kelly relief days required the emergency operations deputy chief's position to be backfilled, resulting in substantial overtime costs. So accordingly, eliminating the Kelly relief days resulted in a budget savings by reducing overtime costs. As a result of this change, the deputy chiefs no longer receive scheduled time off every 13th shift, like all of the other firefighters working on the line today.
 But the impact of that was that there wasn't any corresponding change in their pay scale, meaning that the emergency operations deputy chiefs were working more hours, 216 to be exact, for the same rate of pay, effectively decreasing their hourly rate. This also caused a wage compression between the emergency operations deputy chief and the battalion chiefs who report to them, so that there was only a $0.09 an hour differential between those two.
 Currently, the top step base rate for emergency operations chief, again, is $0.09 more than the battalion chiefs, which is only a tenth difference between those two steps. For comparison, the differences between the top steps between the other three ranks within Portland Fire and Rescue are 15% at each step.
 So the proposal we have restores equity to the personnel, three in total, and restores them to the same schedule as all of the frontline firefighters who they supervise. By using the 40-hour deputy chiefs to flex their hours and fill the periodic relief shift, the proposal also ensures that we don't incur any overtime costs. So I think it's a very good and sound proposal.
 So the benefits, it solves multiple problems. It eliminates the wage compression between the deputy chief and the battalion chief ranks. It restores the deputy chiefs to the same schedule they had prior to 2013-14, eliminating the situation from the last few years in which they worked even more hours but were paid the same.
 It ensures there's no additional overtime, and it provides a management tool for us with some incentive for people at that level then to step up and take on additional workload. So your explanation makes sense, but how is it that it has neither a positive nor a negative financial effect?
 So what we did was we have some 40-hour deputy chiefs. They're also non-rep. And we are going to utilize those people on occasion when these Kelly Days come up. So, again, there are only three members that they're having to cover. It's only every 13th shift. So that's around every –
 not quite a month and a half time, but approximately that time. And those other nonrepresented people are going to fill in for them and flex time out of their normal. Already on a 40-hour week. Yes, they're just going to flex that time off. All right. Presumably those people on the 40 hours are doing something else currently. Correct. And so there will be some impact, but I believe that we'll be able to manage that internally. Okay.
 i know you've been doing an excellent job of managing the budget and the staffing overall which is why you're now proposing to do something which was
 cited as a cut in previous under previous administrations, so I appreciate that. But we are all quite used to getting paid less per hour than the people that we directly supervise, our bureau directors, for example. And so I'm presuming that these deputy chiefs don't actually get paid hourly anyway. They're on salary, right? That is correct. They are not eligible for overtime. So they're already, that's another issue where the
 Battalion chiefs receive overtime, and the deputy chiefs
 routinely on a daily basis put in additional hours above and beyond. So this reduction in the Kelly days was really a significant blow to the morale of the employees who were already putting in literally hundreds of extra hours above and beyond that they're not compensated for. And then taking that small incentive and measurement of equity to those positions away was difficult. Right.
 Are deputy chiefs eligible for management leave? No, because that was taken away also because it requires overtime to backfill again. So in the fire bureau, you do not give your non-representative... So that was taken away the same time that the Kelly days were taken away because of the fact that management leave for anybody that required overtime was taken away. Right. So that makes sense then. And it's in effect where we're storing three days where...
 In our bureaus or in my office, I'm allowed to give up to two weeks of management leave. Right. So that makes sense. Thank you. Other questions for Chief Janssen? Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Novick? I appreciate the explanation. When I first read this item, I thought that Kelly Days was a former deputy chief who's bringing her store to her former status. Aye. Fritz? Thank you for the explanation. That makes it very clear. Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 i appreciate the chief coming up with this proposal and i think it will improve morale without incurring additional overtime aye anything else thank you aye okay 1360 establish annual sale price cap for the home buyer opportunity limited tax exemption program mr salzman
 Thank you, Mayor. The Homebuyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program, or HALTI as it's known, provides a 10-year tax exemption to low- to moderate-income homebuyers, making homeownership more affordable for families in Portland. I think, as we all know, homeownership provides families with long-term stability. It ensures that children don't have to change schools as much, and it fosters generational wealth building.
 This program, along with our system development charge waivers, are key tools in our toolbox for partnering with both the private and the non-profit sector to create home ownership opportunities for low- and middle-income families. Each year, this body is required to set, by state law, to establish the sales cap under this program. And this morning, the Portland Housing Bureau is requesting that we set the sales price cap at $310,000.
 which is equivalent to 100 of the area median price for for multiple price sale median sale price for multnomah county and we have uh dory van bockle here to answer any questions council members may have okay i'm not sure that we have any but we'll bring you up or have you available just in case it looks like commissioner novick has questions please
 I've got all sorts of questions. Thank you. One question is, is there an annual limit to the number of eligible homeowners that participate in this program? Yes. This particular program has a limit on the number of homes that enter into the program. So as far as builder applications that we accept each year of 100 and then that are then sold to homebuyers.
 So how did we arrive at that limit of 100? That was part of the larger policy review of the tax exemption programs between the city and the county and schools that took place in 2012. And how much, so how many homes of this cost are built in a given year?
 So we have fully utilized that cap over the last few years. So theoretically, if you increase the cap, more people will take advantage of it? That is very possible. In some of the materials, this is described as in part an incentive to the development of affordable houses. I was curious about that because it seems to me that actually the developer doesn't make more money as a result of the property tax break. The developer sold the house for whatever the house is worth up to this limit. Yes.
 much. Right. However, with the sale price cap, it is an incentive to developers to build homes that are more affordable rather than...
 maximizing the cost and profit out of it. And when it's coupled with the system development charge exemption program, which has the same homebuyer requirements, that is a more direct benefit to the developer that then works to have that result beneficial for everyone. Right. I understand how the SDC waiver benefits the developer, but I
 don't quite understand why it helps the developer to have the property tax waiver given the developer won't be the one paying the property taxes. Being that homebuyers are already qualifying with the same criteria for the SDC exemption, it is another benefit to help people at that median income level because there is also an income limit for the homebuyers.
 programs as well and so by having that tax advantage as well it helps someone who's at that low to moderate income level be able to qualify for the home so it helps them sell them more quickly okay than they might normally i mean even in this it is a hot market of course but um in as things ebb and flow but even now um it is more of an advantage for a home buyer even in qualifying for a loan to have the advantage of the tax exemption too
 Now, I mean, clearly it makes it much easier for somebody of moderate income to buy a house. And I actually wasn't aware this program existed, and I'm rather excited to hear that it does, because one thing that bothers me about our whole property tax system is that the –
 There's no progressivity to it. I mean, you pay the same number of cents or dollars per thousand, whether you're talking about a billion-dollar house or a $300,000 house. And this, that wasn't aware of the answer of a creative way to give a property tax break to people who are buying lower-cost houses. I would be curious to see, I mean, sort of...
 sort of an analysis of looking at all of our property tax and SDC exemptions together, whether where this falls and whether we might want to possibly expand this program to cover more people. Commissioner? Yeah. We definitely would love to expand it because it is so popular. As Dory said, it was part of an agreement between the city, the county, and the school districts together.
 was the big look, right? Wasn't that called? In 2012. So yeah, I'm certainly willing to have those conversations with the county. See whether, you know, just as we had a conversation with the county to increase our
 multiple unit limited tax exemption, we can have this conversation because it is so popular and homeownership is so important. I'm willing to assist in that too. I think it's reasonable for us to we have a housing state of emergency. It applies not only to renters, but also to people that are trying to buy. It's not an easy market in which to do that. We have a couple of places in which we need to have a frank discussion with our other governmental partners, the school districts, and
 and the county about decisions we might make that would affect overall taxation one is the
 potential for forming a new urban renewal district to support the Division Powell transit project, and another might be this. But even if we do both of those things, even if we expand the Halte and create that urban renewal area, we will only be clawing back, if you will, part of the windfall that we conferred on the county and the school districts by the urban renewal reforms that we made last year. So both...
 the general funds of both school districts and the county have been improved already by what we've done in in reducing the scope of urban renewal so it's not like we are um you know we're not we're not really squeezing our partners we're just blessing them a little less
 if we do these things and I'm being a little playful here but it's Multnomah County obviously shares our interest in housing affordability so I think everybody has a stake in taking another look at this question is this the right time to expand the availability of the halting program I think it certainly is and we should have that conversation I'll be happy yeah that's that's a good framing of the issues to to start that conversation with me maybe the home for everyone committee can take up this agenda item
 Is this program only available for new construction, or is it available to sellers of already built houses? This program is actually only by statute available for new construction, yes. So I think Commissioner Novick's line of questioning, as usual, was a good one, and that is that there are some developers who are choosing not to maximize their profits, apparently.
 So it would be nice if we could publicize a list of the people, of the developers who participate in this program as certified good people. And we do actually list all of the homes for sale on our website also. But does it list who built them? Yes. Well, there should be some way of like a good housekeeping seal. Certified good people. I think that's a list anybody would want to be on. I'm sure they would appreciate that as well.
 as opposed to the dastardly developers who normally talk about we could have one of those too yeah yeah one of each i think i think we knew which group will show up to accept their certificates okay other questions thank you very much good discussion appreciate this um anyone want to speak on this item if not it's resolution let's take a vote please roll call novick as i said i'm delighted to find this program exists and appreciate the discussion aye prince good work aye
 uh well yeah we appreciate the discussion and we will explore if we can increase the number of homes that will uh qualify for this tax exemption and uh appreciate the work of dory van boekel and andrea matthiessen in all the bringing this forward hi nails nice work aye before we adjourn some comments i just wanted to invite everybody to the kwanzaa celebration that will be happening in city hall from five to seven tonight there'll be all kinds of entertainment and such uh kwanzaa
 Kwanzaa is a community celebration, not a religious holiday, so everybody is welcome. And I just learned because of my great assistant, Christina Nieves, that December 30th is the fifth day of Kwanzaa, and each of the days has a principle. Today's principle is Nia, which is purpose, which means to make our collective vocation the building and developing of our community in order to restore our people to their traditional greatness. And I think that's a very good principle on which to end the last council meeting of the year.
 i second that thought thank you very much happy kwanzaa happy new year and we are adjourned