Council Member Francik. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. I key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Happy New Year. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum present. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, one and only, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our council chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. Scripture reminds us that there are Our times that we mourn and times that we rejoice. I know for many of us last week as we were at Mr. Licurdo's viewing and funeral, that our hearts and prayers go out. The former council member, a friend to many here, and the citizens of this city and family and friends feeling the deep loss for Mr. Licurdo. But the scripture also says to rejoice with those who rejoice. So in that light, the drought is over. That would be significant in this room. The drought is over. We've known it was over for a while because of things that we've been seeing and sporting on the council, but the city caught up. And over the last weekend, our Israel group was slated to get back together Sunday afternoon. They had to make the time later because we were in a playoff game. That's a really good time to have. And then as I asked the Lord for a scripture to start our new year and a blessing I want to pronounce on all of you. 2 Kings 13.4 says this, Then Jehoahaz prayed for the Lord's help, and the Lord heard his prayer. Leaders in Israel, in that time, in that day and age, when they prayed for the Lord's help, the Lord heard their prayer. I've got good news. The same God who heard the prayers of political officials thousands of years ago will hear your prayer today. He'll hear your prayer and he will come alongside you to help you in this coming year. So let me pray a blessing as we start the new legislative calendar. Father, in Jesus' name, I thank you that we come together. And Lord, I do want to offer prayers on behalf of former council member, LaCourteaux's family and friends. Lord, we come alongside his very young and early demise and just ask for comfort for them. And then I thank you, Father, for the amazing run that the bills took this year that swept our hearts along with them. Thank you for a city where the drought is over. And Lord, this scripture, that as an official prayed for your help, you heard his prayer. Today I encourage each of those who now start this year, fresh slate, new legislative year. Lord, I pray that they'll turn to you and seek your guidance, your help, your wisdom, your direction. And I thank you, Lord, that your promise is you will hear and answer their prayer. Thank you for the multitudes of Buffalo citizens that are praying for this council, for this year. And I pray, Father, even now, breakthroughs to come. Thank you for your powerful presence in your mighty name. Amen. Amen. Councilmember Zimora, Councilmember Franczak, Councilmember Wingo, Councilmember Dallone. Yes, thank you Mr. President. It's certainly fitting to remember our former colleague, Mr. Michael J. Licurto, who served with us so honorably as a councilmember. We all have our taking away at a much too young of an age. But he was a remarkable young man. And I can't help but thinking that his skills would have been needed more now than ever. We're looking at working on a local level. But the fact is that national politics do impact on us to a pretty large degree. We have such reactionary politics now coming on the national level. And he was a true progressive. There's a quote from Franklin Roosevelt that says, it's not what you do for those who are well-heeled and those who are affluent, but those who are what you do who are basically in need. And I know I butchered that quote, but all of Mike's activities here in the Common Council and actions were to help the people that were in need, to help level the playing field. Not give away something for nothing, but level the playing field away from those who do have all the power and the money. And the danger is that this local level was like a battle against an oligarchy. Our democracy is a threat certainly by an oligarchy. Mike, with his legislation with living wage and... respiratory budgeting and other things i may not agree with all the propositions but they're always focused on helping uh level the playing field among us and he was chairman of the community development committee uh the legislation which i mentioned uh mike and i were very close friends we were part of a majority that we had the best interest of city and stuck up for the council as an institution. And he was a great helper. There's still council members here who are part of the majority at that time. And Mike is a stalwart with that. And we didn't come from the same political organizations. I didn't know him until he came here, but I came to really appreciate him. We spent many hours talking. I'd go to his office, he'd come to my office. I'd miss all those wonderful conversations. But much of our conversation wasn't always about politics or government, but it was. He was always grounded in serving, you know, the people. You know, the North American people, middle class people, poor people. He was always grounded in that. His father Dennis, Robert Jones' father was active in the union movement. He had that union ethos that was there. That good old fashioned democratic politics that we were all, that I was brought up in. When I was brought up, we were brought up in those kind of good old fashioned democratic politics, which I still adhere to. And on the national level, it's been dealt a pretty hard role. We needed young fighters like that on our level to fight for our country. fighting the good fight, as they say. But Mike and I would talk often about not only politics, but often about other things like cinema. Mike was an expert in movies, American movies and foreign movies, and taught not only urban planning at UB because he was trained as an urban planner, but we taught movies a lot. In fact, we go to movies from time to time. every other month, I'd bring a stuffed sandwich or whatever from Romeo and Juliet, go to his place on Myrtle. As time went on, he got a little less able to get around, but we still tried to get around and see movies at the North Park, which he was so happy to see renovated on Myrtle Avenue or some other place that we'd talk about movies. The last movie we saw was The Blade Runner back in the fall of last year. And, you know, one of the things I feel bad about is that I called about seeing something just before Thanksgiving, and I had to say, can we take a rain check, Mike? Because I had a meeting popped up that I just had to go to. He goes, yeah, fine. And he didn't think about Mike being sick because he never talked to me. He never, he never, that wasn't his identity. He didn't identify himself with those tremendous physical struggles that he went through. Transplants, three transplants, and a heart, kidney, you know, and the transfusions he had to go through and all the medications. He never, he never once talked about it, never once mentioned it at all. And so we never talked about it, and we didn't ask, so I didn't see him as a person that had all these physical trials. I saw him as himself. and I appreciate him for himself. So many happy returns, Mike. We're here all too briefly, but you made a big impact. Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Wingo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I do appreciate how my colleague, and personally I consider Councilman Franczak a friend. He's truly been an inspiration to me and helped since I've been here on the council, and how he's just eulogized his former colleague, former councilman lucurto we've come today also mr chair to express our condolences to the family of our deputy commissioner for street sanitation mr henry jackson the passing of his mother magdalene jackson in the book of john chapter 14 jesus says that if you really know me you know my father and where i did not know mrs jackson I did know Mrs. Jackson because I know her son. And she produced that son. And that son is, again, to use the words of my colleague, Councilmember Franjack, he was a stalwart. He is a stalwart. And I can only imagine how much of a queen, how much it took for her to raise a king. And Mr. Jackson, we... are praying for you constantly, and just know that you are in our prayers. Also, we want to let the families of Paul Locke know that we are thinking about them and praying for them.
 Mr. and Mrs. Locke, Archie and Doris Locke, you are in our thoughts and prayers, the passing of their son suddenly, and also a warrior. Miss Ellen Flemmister, she passed away a couple weeks ago. She was one where she would tell you how she felt for a council member. She's one who would not shy away from letting you know, I don't feel well, but I'm still here. And just to, again, borrow the word from my colleague in ministry, he used a phrase that I tend to use quite often, which is the same God. She would say, you know, the same God that brought me back then, he's the same God that can carry me on from now on. And it's good just to be reminded that we do serve an awesome God. And in those times of bereavement, in these times of pain, there is no sorrow that we experience here on earth that heaven cannot heal. And in the words of my godmother, she would say all the time, if we just give time time... time will heal. Even though it will heal, it will never cease not to leave a scar. The scars will always be there. It is natural for us to go through the agony of separation. But yet and again, we thank God for those of us who are still here to comfort us through our times of bereavement and through these transitions in life. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Glombeck. MR. Thank you, Mr. President. North District lost Charles Korb. He had been active for many, many years in community groups. He would show up at our – he'd been sick for the past year or so, but I would see him at our Saturday breakfasts at the Polish Cadets. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family. And Peggy Dixon passed away, the grandmother of Arielle Cunningham. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends as well. Thank you. Mr. Piroletto? Thank you very much. I just wanted to recognize former Delaware District Council Member Michael O'Curdle. Council Member Franzek did a great job talking about him and everything he did on the council and the struggles that he dealt with in his life. and all of the accomplishments that he had in his life. So I know all the council members know we signed this proclamation to be prepared, which we will be giving to his family. And Council Member Franz acted such a good job talking about the time working with him. And since I replaced him and did not work with him on the council, I'll leave the comments to Council Member Plotner. Thank you. Mr. White? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would be remiss if I didn't say something about Council Member McCurdo since I'm sitting in his seat. I sat here, he sat there. And, you know, he was a kind person, very kind. And I think I want to say one thing, so I'm going to try to tie two things together. I won't complain. We talked about Mr. Jackson's mom. And they talked, Pastor, we talked about how she never complained about her illness. I remember the colonel sat here many, many days and never said a mumbling word about his illness or how to prevent him from doing anything. He just continued to do the work. And I appreciated the work he did because I saw something in him that he cared genuinely about people. And I think sometimes we get cast in a certain light by folks, but when you work with them, you get to know them better. And you see some of the legislation that he championed, regard participatory budgeting and wages and those type of things, to level the playing field. So he is someone who will be dearly missed. I'm so glad that you and I got a chance to meet his mom and dad, who are just as genuine and just as kind. I know they're going to miss their son just like I miss my daughter. We understand we lose our children, but his legacy stands. And I know they would be appreciative of all the comments that we have made on behalf of their beloved son. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Fontana. Thank you. Our prayers are with Mike and his family. UP IN HEAVEN HAS BEEN LOST. A TERRIFIC COUNCIL MEMBER, KNOWN THROUGHOUT THE STATE FOR HIS HARD WORK AND CONVITMENT TO THE CITY OF BUFFALO. WE'VE ALSO LOST A CITY EMPLOYEE, LONG-TERM MEMBER OF THE division down in parking, Mr. Randall Kaye. Randall was always very fair and hearings. He wasn't the type of guy that would listen to somebody and then make a rude statement of some sort. He would always be compassionate to the residents. And Randall was here for many years. And we want to thank his family for letting us work with him for so many years. Thank you. Mr. Revere. Thank you very much. I just want to speak briefly on my friend Mike Lucerto. I met Mike in 2007 when I decided to run for city council and although Mike was having his own race in the Delaware District he was at my campaign headquarters and he would help me and it was kind of odd that somebody that has a race would come to my campaign headquarters to help me. When I won the election One of the first persons that I looked to was Mike and Dave and people that were in leadership. And I made a decision then, and it was based mostly on Mike, because of where I landed in terms of leadership and who I supported that year. But there are a couple things I learned about Mike. He loved the Delaware District. Hurdle was his baby. He fought to have banners put up on girdle, his ethnicity, the Italian festival. When he was a marshal one year, he was in heaven. He wore his banner, I think he took it home with him, and he wore it at home. But he was proud. But his voice was heard throughout the city, not just in the Delaware District, because he impacted the lives of many employees in the City of Buffalo with domestic partner benefits and LGBT issues. and community benefits agreement and living wage, and you name it, he was involved. He was an urban planner. His vision was greater than just the Delaware District. And I know who spoke for many of the voiceless. There are people that didn't have a voice. And here's a person from the Delaware District that could probably say, I'm just going to deal with things that have to do with the Delaware District. He thought beyond that. He looked at the city as a whole, and he says, I am going to impact quality of life for all of those people. And for that reason, I am going to miss them. He was the progressive voice on the Common Council. As a matter of fact, when he left, my thought was, who's going to be the progressive voice? That the second floor is going to say, oh that's Mike. When I went downstairs they knew if it was a progressive issue, it was Mike LeCourteau. And so we're going to miss that and hopefully the things that he believed in are certainly things that many of us here on the Common Council believe in as well. So my heartfelt condolences to Joanne and Dennis on the passing of Mike. Anyone else? We always pause to remember our soldiers or our men and women, both military and civilians, who have given their life since our last meeting. One soldier has perished since our last meeting. So we remember them and of course the mom of Henry Jackson, who I had the honor of eulogizing few days ago and it was definitely the Buffalo City of Buffalo family coming together to support for those names and all other names that you have heard it you pause for a moment of silence thank you we have any presentations All those in favor? Okay. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, amendments of the stage meeting held on December 26, 2017 are approved. All righty. From the top? Oh, there are several late files. Has everybody received the late files? All right. Any objections to the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda as in front of us. Not taking away your right to object to a late file. a later time if you haven't had time to review it. Front up. Item 1, appoint Commissioner of Community Services and Recreational Programming. Item is open. This item is open and I believe that we have someone here to speak on that. Good afternoon, everyone. To God be the glory. An outstanding day for me. I'm just thankful that you guys are in support of this opportunity for us to continue the good work that we're doing within community services. My plan and my goal is to continue to make our department one of the stronger ones in the city. Thank you so much. Council Members, any questions, comments for Ms. Barker? Councilmember Wyatt? No question for Mr. Barker. I just want to congratulate him. I think it's an honor well deserved. Otis is well known in the community, not just for working in the mayor's office, but just his advocacy for people and youth. And I think it's a long overdue honor, but congratulations. It's well deserved. Yeah. Anyone else? Councilmember Rivera, Councilmember Wingo. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Barker has been in the position he is being promoted to. for I believe five, six years. So he is very well familiar with all all of the duties and functions and responsibility of the office or the position that he's going to hold. Certainly, he has great temperament. He loves to communicate with the council members. He's accessible. The only thing I don't have is your cell phone number that's required for my vote. If I can't get a hold of you, it's a problem. No, thank you very much for all you do. I can get your cell phone number. We'll take care of that one. Thank you. uh miss wiggle comes from this this is a a great testament to how uh people are rewarded for great work and i do believe that mr barker is reward is deserving of this this this promotion i'm happy and i'm elated that he accepted this promotion and we look forward to calling him commissioner from this day forward and we just look forward to having that phone number as well. Thank you, Mr. President. Council Member Prasad. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just dispense a little bit with protocol and you know, since you have a panoply of commissioners reappointed, I just wanted to say yeah i would even make a motion that we take the entire slate and you know approve the entire slate mr barker certainly he's done a great job whenever i see him he's responsive he's got iron grip whenever i always try to avoid shake his hands because his iron grip commissioner dorenda i'm voting for him you know i remember when he and his dad came to my office over 30 years ago and he expressed his interest to be a police officer now he's made commissioner and doing a great job Kevin Helfer served with him when he was a council member when I knew him. actually our both of our wives went to school together they went to the same school years ago but I didn't know him and I saw how smart and aggressive and how good he was as a council member councilman Chica used to call him Wow rain man because he knew all the numbers but he's doing a great job in parking Steve stepniak when is he never returned a call I mean Steve stepniak you know he's he calls you on weekends and at night and tells you the thoughts that he has. So he's amazingly responsive. Donna Estrich in the numbers department, you know, whenever we need a budget answer or whenever, you know, she's just such a solid, you know, public servant with knowledge on every aspect of the budget when we're supposed to, you know, craft and make our decisions, she's always there. Jim Comerford, my goodness, you know, I don't know how many times that he's met us on cold winter days, out at a site, at some dilapidated giant building, you know, whether it's on Lewis Street. I mean, you could go on and on and on at night doing, you know, emergency demolitions. Whenever I call or email him, get a response just like that. And just on the rare occasion I'm here late on a Friday afternoon, there he is. Responds right away. And so you know that, you know, he's on his duty. And then this young gentleman here that I met for the first time, Mr. Muscarella, in the fire department, and I told Ms. Williams from the Buffalo News, I said, he's got a lot of energy. He's a young guy. He's got 27 years. He's, what, 18 years old when he started. Right. Because you do the math, he's only in his mid-40s. And so he's got a lot of enthusiasm and energy, and I don't think I missed anybody. Barker, Durenda, Muscarella, Helfer, Stepniak, Estrich, and Comerford. Tim Ball and Gigi. Tim Ball. And Gigi Herndon. And my deepest apology, Ms. Herndon, I know her father for many, many years. Everybody does, going way back. And so she's a great public servant, and I'll be happy to vote for her. And again, I apologize. I was looking and saying, who's all here? And certainly, Ms.
 Ball.
 I just had a meeting with Mr. Ball yesterday, I think it was. And in the last few days, he and Ms. Gordon were extremely helpful. With this 197 Allen Street I'm dealing with, and we're hoping to work on a resolve. And that's just one of many, many, many things. Very, very smart man. Very intelligent man. I remember when he started here with Mr. State and others, these are always the smart young guys that were here. So I got to write down Ball and Ms. Herndon, of course. And I would make a motion that we just do a collective slate. I know you want... The only reason we can't is because one and two are new. And so they're not, everybody else is not. When we get down to three, we can't do it together. And I didn't miss anybody. Right. So we just have to take those two out because they're brand new. We'll do the process you want. But I appreciate... Any other questions for Mr. Barker or Council Member Fontana? Thanks. I kind of feel like a Bills coach here today at the end of the season of a good season. which the last four years has been a good season for the administration. And I finally got my two draft picks I've been trying to get, Mr. Muscarella and Mr. Barker. Mr. Barker a little longer. Every time he'd come to the chambers, I would jokingly ask you, the commissioner, I completely forgot if he was or not, to be honest, because he was doing the job all these years, doing the job without the title. And, you know, what better person to pick than the person that's been doing the job without having to worry about the title? But now I'm glad the mayor's made it official. He has his commissioner, Mr. Otis Barker, just done a wonderful job. And then to see one of our Buffalo firefighters with the gumption to start off a career right out of high school. so young, and then continue that career, become a lieutenant and a captain in the division of the departments, and then also now be our deputy commissioner, serve ably with no commissioner. It's not like he was deputy commissioner and he had a commissioner around the whole time. He was really running the show, and now to see that, The mayor has picked him to be our commissioner. Very, very proud of Mr. Muscarella as well. I'm confident that the firefighters are thrilled about this, and I'm also confident that the residents will be served ably. So we want to thank them. And my two draft picks are in, so I should get some points and some fantasy football. So we should be at Super Bowl. Motion to it? Just one comment. I'm sorry. I know it. And I am very thrilled. Mr. Barker, soon-to-be commissioner, he's not there yet, but... I think the council was voting for him last year or a couple years ago when he was here for something else. And I think it's one of the only persons that I went to the mayor and said, listen, whatever you need to do, I think that the council stands united. And I think that speaks volumes for his work in the community. And I'll speak about the second one when we get to his name. But I'm very confident. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franczak. Congratulations Commissioner and if you'll hang out with us for... Your first duty is staying through all the commissioners and we're going to do a mass swearing in all at once. So we're now going to do one by one by one. Everybody raise their hand and say their name and say their office and you can sign your paperwork all at the top. Alright, next item. Item two, appoint Commissioner Fire. Item two. All right, Commissioner Fires in front of us. Councilmember Wyatt, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I met with Mr. Muscarella earlier today and very, very impressed his knowledge of the fire department, especially as it pertains to the financial part of it. He and I talked a great deal about the overtime, and what he's addressing, that we're addressing right now, and I'm very happy to hear that, because that's something that's been something I've talked about a number of times when we've come to the city budget, that that's something that we have to manage better and get under control. But he seems to have a very good handle on it, and I'm looking forward to working with him It seems as though the firefighters really like him. A lot of them that I've talked to really like him, think that he's a hands-on type of guy, understands a lot of the issues regarding the firemen themselves. But sometimes you can be the commissioner and maybe not have a relationship with the firefighters, but he seems to have a great relationship. So I look forward to supporting him. Thank you. Council Member Fialetto. Thank you. I just wanted to support the Commissioner of Fire. Before that, all the department heads and commissioners, you guys do such a great job. We appreciate it. Almost every single one of you after hours on the weekend for help. Our job is not a 9 to 5 and we know your job isn't a 9 to 5 and you're always there to help. And if I'm calling you after hours on the weekend, you're probably getting 9 calls because there's 9 council members doing that. So we appreciate everything you do. And with soon to be Commissioner Muscarella. We've met, I knew him before he was the Deputy Commissioner. I know he has the respect of the firefighters. A ton of firefighters called me on his behalf saying how he'd be a great Deputy Commissioner and he has an incredible amount of energy and passion for his job. I think he was Deputy Commissioner for about a week and a half and there was a fire in Council Member Rivera's district and then deputy commissioner muscarella called me at 6 30 in the morning on a saturday because because he wanted Councilman Rivera's number to let him know about the fire in his district, which is great, but 630 on a Saturday is a little too early. But the energy is there, so I think he'll do a great job as commissioner. Thank you. All right. Anybody else? Commissioner, I think it's important so that, I mean, it's so good to hear all the accolades, and I've heard the same thing from the firefighters and the inspectors, some of the investigators. about your involvement and how you get involved. We have had some discussion here about the overtime, about some of the several discussions that you've been a part of. Can you just share with us briefly what your thoughts are of changing some of those concerns or addressing some of those concerns? Well, we're definitely addressing those concerns as we speak. First step, and I talked to Council Member Wyatt earlier, promotions. We need our people in our leadership positions. And once we get that established, we'll follow with an academy of rookies that we're putting on February 5th. And that will staff us properly. And then we're also putting in parameters in our new upcoming contract that will help with the overtime, help manage it. The problem with the overtime is unmanageable and unpredictable. And it hurts from a financial standpoint, obviously. We know that. But it also hurts me in a training aspect. I need to have the same firefighters working on their scheduled shifts so I can train them to the level that I know the Buffalo Fire Department can get to, and that's a very high level. From a manager's standpoint, it's unpredictable and unmanageable, and we need to get a handle on it, and we are putting parameters in place to do that. And I don't want to sugarcoat it at all. It's it's a process. It's not gonna be overnight. I wish I could set my fingers, but it's gonna be a month tomorrow process and six months is our first goal we're gonna Revaluate those numbers and we do look to see an improvement at the six month mark So there'll be some goals that you will lay down as the commission a three level goal promotions And then the rookie class and the contract, and they're kind of all going to come together right at the start of the next fiscal year, so about five and a half months. So that's when we're looking to really see some, I mean, a definite improvement, a marked improvement. Good. The, you don't happen to be related to the folks who make the cakes, do you? If I say yes, does that help? Yeah, because they made my wedding. It's actually still different. It was wonderful. Oh, okay. Any other questions for possibly the suit? Are those commissioner bars on you right now? Not yet. I don't have any tickets to the house. All right. All right. Good move. Not yet. Anybody else? All right. Council Member, Majority Leader. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. All right. Great. If you'll hang around with us just for a moment. Next item. Item three, reappointment of department heads. All right. This item is for us. We have all of the department heads who are here. Councilmembers, I'm not going to take them one at a time or else we'll be here all day. So any questions that you might have for any other than the first two, because we've already gone through that, the floor is open for any comments. Councilmember Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to echo the words of my colleagues. You know, I've been on the phone with these guys in uh representatives at all hours you know early in the morning late at night during the middle of the day sundays holidays whatever and people don't realize how good this administration has been at appointing people to be commissioners directors etc i appreciate that when there's been an emergency i'll get in touch you know using Probably Stepniak, Comerford, and Durenda are the three that I'm in the most contact with. Usually within five minutes I get either a call or a text back, even when I'm contacting Mr. Stepniak at 2 in the morning, although I have stopped that because he had a talk with Mr. Rodriguez. So I try to wait until early in the morning. But I do appreciate very, very much the hard work and the energy that puts in. I got a complaint yesterday about a problem on Argus Street. As a matter of fact, I was texting Commissioner Stepniak. As I'm texting him, the phone was ringing for him to call me on a different issue. And I told him, I said, look, I'm just leaving work. was a little after five o'clock i said i'll meet the crew over there within 20 minutes the crew was there we had it addressed we didn't solve it but at least it's being addressed by the city of buffalo um and you know that's that's just you know every single one of the commissioners that i've dealt with have been that hard working and i appreciate it and i'm going to vote for all of them all right councilmember wingo thank you mr chair i would like to say that i'm voting for all of them as well uh but i would like to particularly i'll just mention how These commissioners who are here represent an entire department and not one of these commissioners sitting here behind me will take the credit for the work that's being done in their department. When I speak to any of the commissioners, it's always the team that executes what great work that's being done in these departments. And just as a testament to that, I just about know all of the deputies for all of the departments because that's how well they work together and how closely they work together. So again, I want to congratulate the commissioners and also recognize the Deputy Commissioners who are sitting behind me as well, because they make up this great team of people who do the people's work day in and day out. When the people don't know they're doing the work, they're still doing the work. And again, just to echo the words of Councilmember Farrelletto, they're doing the work on the weekends. These are not nine-to-five jobs. And I was speaking to one of the commissioners, I believe it was yesterday or two days ago, and it's just the weight of these positions can't be appreciated by the common person because we just don't know how much work they're putting into these positions. And they're making massive sacrifices to have these positions because any time any one of us calls, They answer. And again, too, just again, Commissioner Stepniak, I don't know what he does all day, but he's calling all of us, making sure that we're OK. Even when the storm came last week, Commissioner Stepniak had called me. He said, I know you didn't call me yet, but I'm just calling you to let you know that this is going to be taken care of tomorrow. Just give me any calls. I want you to know that it's going to be taken care of. And then when Deputy Commissioner Henry Jackson's mother passed away, it was again Commissioner Stepniak, maybe this is a Stepniak show today, but whatever the case is, he called us and said, please, any issues you have regarding streets and sanitation, whatever you will call Henry for, call me. And I mean, this is the kind of teamwork that we're talking about that we have here in the city of Buffalo. And I couldn't be happier working with all of these commissioners. I couldn't be happier to reappoint them. Gigi Herndon gets all of my people employed, so she gets everybody approved. I really appreciate all of the hard work that they do with the police department. Commissioner Dorinda, and of course both Deputy Commissioners, both Lockwood and Beattie. They work so well together. I should not have started calling names because now I'm seeing all the highs. Now you're going to turn around and call everybody's name. The highs are back in my head saying, is he going to call my name next? No, Donna Escherich, I'm not. I really do appreciate all the people, Tim Ball, who have expressed their desire to want to serve this great city again. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm voting for everybody. Thank you. Council Member Fontana? Just a point of order. Did Commissioner Kennedy's name get submitted? I'm just looking at the list and Commissioner of Assessment. Is there a reason why we don't have Commissioner Kennedy here? Well, he's... Just the point of information or a change is there some friends? Oh, that's a three day this now He's appointed by the Board of Review and they all say is that why okay? He's appointed by the Board of Review, but I don't know maybe a later date that corporation council is ready to speak to it And I said that's right. So I believe it. Okay Tim ball corporation council the chief information officer of MIS and and the Commission on Taxation Assessment by the tri-partite appointments by the Comptroller, the Mayor, and the Council President. All right. I remember now. Thank you. I'll consider that. I'll consider whether we keep it. I hope you do. Any other comments? So as we get ready to close this, and then we'll do the swearing-in right away. Should we do a voice? Council Member Skinner? Thank you, Council President. You know, it's very easy for all the commissioners. First of all, I want to thank them for their incredible service to the city of Buffalo. But it's very easy to call a council member back. But I know all these commissioners, what they do is they deal with the public constantly, too. They're not afraid to get their hands dirty and deal with the general public, the citizens at the ground level. So I just want to thank them for their commitment to the people of the city of Buffalo. I agree. Because they not only work, obviously, for the administration, but for the city of Buffalo. But they have to deal with nine different districts and council persons. And that's huge to deal with us all and still have us saying this. And I know I always like to flip the coin. Some might say, well, what was that, just a love fest? But we've had bad employees in administration that the mayor has not been afraid to remove. That's why we're here today. like we are right now because there have been some people who, you know, whether they were deputies or even further down the line, that if they weren't cutting it, they weren't cutting it. And so it is a day in which we just happen to have Great commissioners. Thank you. Councilman. One last thing, because more importantly, like you said, than just the council members, is the people. And I know in my district, I work very hard to empower the people to have a relationship with the commissioners. And every last one of them, Commissioner Comerford, Commissioner Stepniak, those issues, the community calls them when it talks about removing snow. They can call Henry Jackson. Henry Jackson responds to them. And I think that's what we're – you just don't – address the issue just because the councilmember you dress this because it's your job and it's a community so I want to give them a big hands of applause because they really do a good job of dealing with the people and that's something that a lot of times Is missed they think that it's just a council member making happen No, it's the commissioners that recognize what we're trying to accomplish and it's just not about the council member It should be about a block club or individual who has a concern. Thank you absolutely customer beard you asked about a roll call, but we're gonna take the whole slate and So I think we could just do it. Motion is to approve. Motion is to approve, seconded by the President Pro Temp Scanlon. Congratulations, Commissioners. Thank you. And if you all will stand, and Jerry will take care of the rest, our clerk. Let Jerry do it. If you'll please raise your right hand. I, please state your name, do solemnly swear... that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the City of Buffalo according to the best of my ability. Congratulations.
 Welcome.
 And the book will be in the clerk's office. When you stop by and sign it, it'll be official. Janet's going to go up to the top. Okay. It'll be at the top of the stairs. It just switched. Councilman Revere said make sure he has everybody's cell phone. He has two way to go. Thank you. Commissioner Muscarello, what kind of starch does it get now? What is it there? he has the he has the three stars but does he get a fourth step four stars he has four stars now so he gets five cool i don't know how many five stars like five i don't know in the air force's five star general does he get five stars now muskerel all righty everybody all set we got um consular friends like stuart he's still he doesn't have the item coming up right All right, we're going to go back in, and those commissioners who are up in the top, if you'd keep it down to a low roar, maybe just look at each other and not talk to each other. Write each other notes. In submissions. All right, next item. Item number four, Reporter Sale 167 Gray. Motion to approve items four and five. Yeah All right, I apologize all right, what was it motion to approve items four and five second by councilmember Wingo I Item 6, certificate of necessity, transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file item 6 and 7. Second by Council Member Fairland. Item number 8, popular annual financial report. Motion to send to police oversight. Second by Council Member Frenzen. Item 9, investigations, Attorney General's office. Motion number 9, that's police oversight. I'm sorry, number 8 was the finance. Motion to revisit number 8. Hold on, I think I've got... Okay. revisiting item number eight all right we'll be visiting item number eight second by councilman forensic motion is now to send the finance and we already made a recommendation that we need to rescind the emotion spoke i had received and filed it so let's just go to finance thank you sir all right next item item nine buffalo police benevolent association investigations attorney general's office motion to send police oversight second by councilman columbia item number 10 abatement of erie county district peak invoices Motion to approve items 10 through 16. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 17, appoint Laborer 2. Motion to send to Civil Service items 17, 18, and 18A. Oh, excuse me. No, just 17 and 18. All right. Seconded by Council Member White. From the Corporation Council, item 18A is Claims Committee Agenda. Motion to send to the Claims Committee. Second by Council Member Freer-Letter. Item 19, food store license 2082 South Park. Motion to send to legislation items 19, 20, and 21. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 22, used car dealer license 2266 Niagara. Motion to approve items 23... 22. And 22? No, 22 was the item called. 22 and 23. Second by the President Pro Temp. Item 24, auto transportation allowance. Motion to receive and file items 24 and 26, 27 and 28. Is 24, 25 and 26? Yes. 24, 26, 25, 26, 27, and 28. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item 29, notice of apartments temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 30, CAFR fiscal year 17. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 31, monthly city hall incident report December 2017. Motion... I'm sorry, which one are you on? Item 31. 31, motion to receive and file items 31, 32, and 33. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Item 34, PPG draft inclusionary zoning law for the City of Buffalo. Motion to send the legislation item 34 through 36. Second by President Pro Tempo. Who has the floor? Thank you, Council President. This item was filed with us about a month ago, and the reason I'm refiling it is because upon further review, I had a few questions for the group that submitted it to us. You know, a lot of the times... We as a council, whether it's a larger issue or a sensitive issue, we'll have advocacy groups or things of that nature come in and either present us with their opinion about how we should handle something, or in this case, like other instances in the past, provide us with a draft ordinance or a draft law, which contains standards or goals that sometimes are not feasible. In my opinion, they do that for one of two reasons. First, it can be used as either a negotiating tactic, really negotiating one-on-one, set those lofty goals, and then be willing to compromise and then get what you were after initially. Also, I think it provides them an opportunity for when the council does ultimately come forward with their piece of legislation to chastise us with their previous actions. document out there, they get the opportunity to come in and chastise this council and say we're not living up to what should be taking place. So what I'm asking for is that this group come back in. I have a few questions. They have standards in there, goals sit in there that in my opinion aren't realistic. And I just want to see them work the math out for us more than anything. If there's goals out there that can be reached, I would love to see it. I want us to work together to do a positive end along the housing strategies that will benefit everyone in the city of Buffalo. But again, I think some of these goals aren't realistic, so I'd love to have these groups come in and, again, work with us and work this out long-term and kind of work out, show us their math, how they got to this point, and then we can come up with some solutions. legislation moving forward. So someone who is watching, it's not that you put it in because you were suggesting this. No. It was for the conversation. Yes, just to get something back on the agenda for legislation, and they can come in and discuss with us, and we can move forward working together. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Next item. Petitions, item 37, 901 Furman to create bike park. Motion to send to legislation and planning board, items 37 through 40. Second by Councilman Wyatt. Committee, civil service, item one, appoint maintenance assistant. Motion to approve item number one. Second by Councilman Fonten. Item two, appoint police officer, staff operations. Motion to approve item number two. You want to do two and three? Two and three. Go home? Second by Councilmember Winkle. Item four, notice of appointments, temporary or provisional permit. Okay. Motion to receive a 5. Thank you, Vice Council Member Fran, but... Community Development Committee, item 5, report of sale, 1277 Delaware. All right. So this is the community development, but I'm not sure is that your district? Yep. So this has some revisions to the contract I think we probably need to read it into the record that the Developer did agree with now. I want to be clear that this does not set precedent This was a request a one-time request on we have to go forward in setting that precedent of whatever that precedent the council will observe. And before I read into the record what that amendment was, and I think I have it in front of me. I don't think I do have it in front of me. Okay. I don't have the attorney, but we've got it on the phone. I'm going to read it. It was a request by Councilman Rivera to bring in the scope of how many miles to begin to look for workers from 100 to 50 with having a preference for Buffalo. But again, I think it's so important to say this does not set precedent. and the developer said, we'll work with it. So this is for this project. Did you want to say something? Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You're right. When they sent this item to us, they had a 100-mile radius, and I felt, one, it was too big a radius. Secondly, it didn't give you the progression in terms of who comes first within the radius. So the radius should be City of Buffalo, Erie County, and moving outward. So the progression should be Buffalo first. Erie County and then outward where they need to if they show cause that they need to go outside of the radius But Buffalo should have the preference there. So can't you I'll have you read it Can you read it because it's on her phone and I keep flipping around taking selfies and all that so if our corporation council could read it and then we'll enter it into the record as being the the the amendment to the agreement and I want to thank Lantante for working through this statement. Karen Gordon, Corporation Council. The amendment reads, the developer shall use commercially reasonable effort to cause its construction manager, general contractor, and subcontractors to utilize their workforce for the renovation of the improvement of the property that includes at least 75% local workers, meaning workers residing within 50 miles of the project site, excluding Canada, with preference given to the city of Buffalo residents. Right and that was agreeable and agreeable with the council. All right, so motion is to Mr. Chairman, I think and I agree with you I think anytime that there's a benefit to developers and their city property That we should look to make sure that that be the progression going forward that the city of Buffalo Be considered and I think we should agree with file resolution on that requesting that, that the City of Buffalo be considered first with regards to... And I know that there'll be times perhaps when they'll have to go outside of the City of Buffalo for specific needs and professional needs and there might be other factors, but they'll show cause as to why they need to do it. Thank you. And again, I want to make sure because the developers here, that that was language that was worked together to craft. Council Member Franzen? um will the property be for corporation council will this property be on the tax rolls now from from here on in once it once it closes here in garden corporation council i can't speak to that right now i i don't know but it's something i could look into and give you an answer later on if that's okay and i think it is because it's going to it's not going to a non-profit so it would end up back on the tax rolls and getting money for it And just for, I mean, I don't represent the general vicinity there, but will it still be available for resident use? Is there any call for that, or is it mostly just for the redevelopment of the site? Most of it is for the redevelopment so that the parking on the site doesn't start spilling out to the neighborhoods. And so, but because there will be some retail there, and I know the developers up in the, up in the top, there would be some spaces available for those retail, so that site ends up not spilling off. And that was one of the reasons we wanted to move this forward, so they can continue on their project. And I think it's great that they will have a parking lot, and then the people in that area don't have to deal with the traffic that they used to have to deal with from the hospital a lot more than what we'll see on this. Okay, thank you. Good questions. Thank you. All right. Motion to approve as amended. Motion to approve as amended. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 6, Buffalo Golden Gloves. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member White. Item 7, set hearing portion of land beneath Buffalo River. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontaine. Legislation Committee. Item 8, food store license 1018 Broadway. That item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 9, food store license 1345 East Delavan. Approved with the conditions set by the District Councilmember. Second by Councilmember Fairlittle. Councilmember Fontana has the floor. I'd like to read those into the record. This is the trade fair... Mark over at Delavan and Cortland streets in the city of Buffalo now we've met with our commissioner and the chief Mensa over there at the e-district and we've had quite a few meetings on this topic there were open-air drug dealers To the tune of 40 or 50 a day in front of the store so chief menza requested last time with this Previous owner that they have security so I want to make sure that those same people stipulations that the chief put forth on the last applicant are put forth on this applicant. We're not going to just wash the license and then send it off and have the chief's wishes not met. Chief Menza works too hard not to have his wishes met. So since there's been security here, the problems have gone away. So we're asking that the security detail remain in place, namely being, I'm going to go with one guard from... from the shorter hours that were listed on the previous license, and then up to two guards from 6 to 12 on the weeknights and the weekends. So whatever the last license says, I want this license to say, essentially. I don't have the exact language before us, but if I don't mention that... The department doesn't hear what we do sometimes. They sometimes listen back to the tape and they want it right on the record as to what we'd like to see. So we're asking that security be part of this proposal as well. As well as... Just for clarification, is the same, you desire the same exact language that was on the last license so we'll have staff follow up and make sure that license gives that information today. Thank you. Thank you, sir I'm 10 Use 19 dough to convert warehouse to residential facility This is originally marked for approval But we do have to recommit since we have to wait for the seekers. So the motion is to recommit item number 10 I'm number 10. All right second by Councilman for a look I'm 11 use 197 out for tavern. I This was originally marked for without recommendation. A motion is now to recommit. Motion recommits. Seconded by Council Member Blinken. Item 12. Amend UDO zoning map 17-1921 Elmhurst. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member McAlellan. Resolutions. Gratitude for city sanitation. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 42, transfer funds, firehouse abatement. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Feeler. Item 43, transfer funds, general city charges, prior year claims. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 43A is a late file established citywide community benefit agreement. Motion to adopt items 43A through 45. Seconded by President Brooks-Hipp, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. You know, for decades, the city of Buffalo was in decline. Businesses were leaving town. They were closing up their doors. Population was decreasing. And there was kind of this sense of inferiority about the city. But now things are starting to turn around. You know, you see articles nationwide extolling Buffalo's turnaround. You see people staying here instead of moving away. And you see construction and things of that nature booming. During those decades of decline, though, there was a generation of people who stayed in this city, stuck by this city, worked here, formed our tax base, and kept this city going. So now as this city begins to take off, it's imperative that those people and their children aren't left behind. So to that end, what I'm asking for is that the Office of Strategic Planning, our law department, the Common Council, and members of the development community come together to create a city ordinance that would establish a citywide community benefit agreement with the goal of ensuring employment for the people of the city of Buffalo. You're talking about a project a few items ago at Gate Circle, and you're talking about setting a precedent, and that's what I'd like to do with this item. Set a precedent that would... would be used citywide with the goal of employing people here in the city of Buffalo. Obviously, at times, for whatever reason, whatever the project, whatever the jobs on site, perhaps we might not be able to fill those spots completely with the people of the city of Buffalo, but I think it's imperative that we attempt to. So, again, I apologize for this being a late file. It just came to my attention. Just came up this morning with everything taking place with the Gates Circle issue. So I just want to thank my colleagues for their support, and hopefully this is passed. Council Member Golombi. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to be added to this resolution, and I want to commend Mr. Scanlon for it, as well as you, for the... deal that you struck over on Gates Circle. I have a very, very big concern in my district. I have about 11 or 12 development projects that are in the works for the North District. I have been told that the majority of them would not see the light of day if inclusionary zoning was passed in the City of Buffalo. I'm very, very concerned about that because if that means 8 out of 11 or 8 out of 12 or even 5 out of 12 are going to be killed because of inclusionary zoning being passed in the City of Buffalo, that's unacceptable for myself and for the North Councilmanic District. I think that the way to address these issues is a comprehensive way of dealing with them with the CBA, dealing with the developers, and trying to work with developers and unions, apprenticeship programs, et cetera, so that we can get our kids here in Buffalo from every councilmanic district into these apprenticeship programs and teach them how to do things that are necessary for the rebuilding of Buffalo. I think that this is the right way to go. And now, as I mentioned before, that I'm very concerned about these projects that may or may not happen in North. I don't necessarily trust somebody that comes to me from the developer side. I don't necessarily trust somebody that comes to me from PPG and starts giving me numbers and statistics. But I will tell you from an anecdotal point of view, perception, perspective that I had some developers that were looking at doing something on Grote and Chandler Street. And they were trying to pigeonhole between, they said they needed I think 33 units into this project. And they said if we can't get 33 units into this project, we can't do this project. And they ended up, I think they were only able to get like 29 or 30, they ended up dropping it because the money just didn't make sense. And these were developers that we would consider more progressive, more liberal than some of the other bigger developers. And I had an off-the-record conversation with them and I asked them, I said, could you have done this with inclusionary zoning? They said, no, we couldn't have. And I said, what if it was 10%? And they said, no, we had to change this project from 33 to 29 and then had to drop it because of four units. And they said to me that we would not have been able to make this work if we had to do even a percentage because of the development and the size. The concern that I have is that it seems quite often in the city of Buffalo that instead of raising and looking up and urging our children to get good jobs and to learn traits and to go into these apprenticeship programs, it's sort of looked at sort of negatively. And I don't want Buffalo to be the city of negativity. I want it to be something that's positive. I want it to be something so that our children will have an opportunity to work, that the people that are going to be living in the neighborhoods, as Mr. Scanlon said, are the people that have stayed here for generation after generation. They didn't leave and they're not coming back into the community now because they've lived in other places. I think I've heard you talk on numerous occasions, many people, that are moving into the medical corridor, not necessarily neighborhood local people. These are people that are coming in from other communities. I have people in my district, and I could drive you through the North District, and I could point out houses that when I was a kid 40 years ago, poor people lived. And they're the same houses today that poor people live in. and they can't find jobs, and that is the key in many regards. So I want to commend you and Councilmember Scanlon for the attempt to try to get jobs for people that live in the city of Buffalo, because I believe that that is the main problem that we have here in the city. Thank you. Thank you, and before I go to the next speaker, I want to comment on... the talk about the inclusionary zoning, because there isn't an inclusionary zoning policy that has been presented. And I think that at times, people are utilizing this as a weapon on both sides to separate people when there is nothing before the council. And I'm sure some of those same developers, if the inclusionary zoning policy gave them a tax break for 20 years, that their minds would be changed. And so I want to be clear that when some of the developers say, I couldn't build it, based on what? There's no policy in front of us yet. We're still working on it. Based on the fact that we're having a discussion about affordable housing for poor people and now some of them say, oh, that would stop a development. I'm just, this is my opinion, I think it's a cop-out. I think it's what some of them use so that they never have to discuss inclusionary zoning, so that we never even have to really have the discussion. I think that's totally unfair because the council has not said 30%. The council has not said whether it would be voluntary. The council has not said whether it would be in certain areas. All we said was let's look at it and see what we can create. So I wouldn't, I wouldn't, I would, I would... We caution the people who hear that kind of talk from developers who say what they can't do because right now we don't even have an item in front of us and if there are five projects waiting in your district and they can't get them done before there's an inclusionary zoning policy just based on the talk, sometimes I think it's a cop out. That they're talking about something that we don't even have in front of us yet and And it may benefit them at the end of the day. I think about Councilmember Golombet, one of the projects down by the waterfront that was done that some of the most wealthy people in Buffalo had, the project was tax exempt for 10 years, and for me, when we talk about inclusionary zoning, I think we have to get to a place where we talk about how to make it fair for the people and for the community. to make it make sense. I just want to caution because when we say they say they can't work, I don't know based on what when we haven't even drafted even a law, but I join you in joining the resolution. Council Member Wyatt and then Council Member Fairlove. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I like the spirit of this resolution. However, when we speak about inclusionary zoning, We're going on a year next month that we were promised something and we still don't have it. And we still continue to wait and hear from people who are very angry because developers continue to develop properties, again, making major dollars. You know, I know that I saw last night Mr. Schmidt over at Shoreline is refusing to leave his property. I commend him because, again, We were sold a bill of goods about this whole process and we were told that people were going to be treated fairly and we're finding that they weren't. In my case, I do have a woman who was displaced from over there and she found a home. She has her own house in the University District and I commended her, but she told me how stressful it was for her and her family and how they cried many days because they didn't know where they were going. Thank God they found a place. But there are other families who have those same stories that are in places that they probably would have never been in. So I think we have to be fair that when we talk about making sure that all boats rise, that we're doing the right things and doing it for the right reason. If we're just going to kowtow to developers, then that way we don't care about the people. The people who have stayed, who have suffered through Buffalo's dark days. Now here's an opportunity, and we still want them to suffer. So again, I hope that the administration and whoever who promised us inclusionary zoning, something on the table to make sure that this happens, brings it forth because we're not getting it. It's not happening. It's happening slow. And I don't want to wait another year. We were promised February. We were promised June. We were promised September. And here it is, January. And we still have nothing. It's unfair. It's unfair to us and it's unfair to the people who spoke loudly that they want to see inclusionary zoning. Thank you. this very little as light on because he couldn't uh... bring in the four house member when i started yet as a co-sponsor please co-sponsor thank you they cannot it is the window is that so that i read a quote uh... if you are who could bring in and i'm only asking to bring in because then the camera in the system catches your comments and people go back as we go customer window thank you mister jr uh... this resolution i i i really believe in the essence This resolution I do believe that everything that councilmember scaling has put in this resolution is 100% accurate This is an exciting time in the city of Buffalo as it relates to the Renaissance and resurgence and they all the opportunities That are going to be coming to Buffalo. I wholeheartedly agree, I just don't know quite honestly if a citywide community benefits agreement will work because each councilmatic district has its own individual identity slash culture slash issues. And to hear my council members speak about their districts, you can hear the differences in the issues that we all have. Some of us have diversity issues, some of us have employment issues, some of us have poverty issues, some of us have more prominent housing issues. We all have various issues, and unless this is just some blanket ordinance that we put into place that's basically somewhat of a wish list of things that we would like to see developers do to ensure that the people are protected, then yes. But if we could, I don't know what to request of Markali, but if it could be more specific in what it's asking, I would be happy to jump on and to sign on with this resolution. But as it's written right here, it's a little bit too vague. I understand the essence of the resolution, and I appreciate the approach, and it is absolutely true that we need to protect our residents. But the residents of Mass and District are looking to me for specificity. And I just believe that we need to incorporate some more specific language in the resolution. And so those are my comments. Other than that, I don't want anyone to get it twisted or wrong that... I don't agree with the spirit of the resolution. I do agree with the spirit of the resolution. The essence of it is very clear. I just, if it can be more specific, I'm pretty sure my colleague will make an attempt to explain that or make it more clear for me. All right, Council Member. Thank you. Just in response to Council Member Wingo, it was left pretty vague intentionally, with the end result hopefully being an agreement between planning, law, the development community, and the residents of the City of Buffalo, which will benefit everyone. I didn't want to put any particulars in here and then end up being hamstrung by them down the road. and have everyone agree to that at this point and again be hamstrung by those down the road. The goal of this in the long run is to do something that's mutually beneficial to the people of the City of Buffalo while allowing the development community to build wonderful projects within the City of Buffalo. And again, I absolutely agree. I hear you. I hear the Councilmember. I just don't know if it's specific enough. I know the language specifically says that that we want to make sure that any development and major projects taking place are beneficial to the residents and then it also has a line in here of the city ordinance to establish a citywide community benefit agreement for development projects with the goal of employment ensuring employment for the Buffalo City residents that is, you know, it's good but Are we going to write a CBA, are we going to draft an ordinance that we're going to put into law for the city of Buffalo to abide by for these developers to, you know, only focus on employment? Because there are CBAs that we have been working on with different organizations and associations in my district particularly who aren't necessarily looking for ordinances that, you know, make it more beneficial or protect, let's say protect the developers. The people want the protection in my district. The people want the protection from developers. The people want the inclusionary zoning. They want to be able to stay where they've always been. They know that they've, and again, it's mentioned in the resolution, they've always been there. They have held it down, so to speak, Before the resurgence and during this resurgence. They would like to stay in their home So again, I know what my residents are telling me regarding the resurgence as far as this Renaissance of Buffalo was Experiencing right now and it's just the specificity of it. I am and again, I do understand Intentional ambiguity and that's great. But again, I would love to sign on I just would need a little bit more specificity moving forward That's all Thank You. Mr.
 Chair. I'm done and ultimately a ordinance that would be drafted and brought here would have all that specific information, specific requests, specific goals and standards. And hopefully at that point, Council Member Wingo would be comfortable with it and be willing to sign on. Council Member Fairlady? Did I already take care of you? Yeah. Are you good? All right. Council Member Revere? Thank you very much. I agree with the spirit and intent of the resolution. Certainly the specifics is something because not one size fits all. That's what we've been told by... community development with regards to different things in different parts of the city so not one size fits all but it would be good to have that discussion with the intent and the spirit to begin to create jobs in the City of Buffalo. As far as the development community, I would be very careful on always representing the development community because our office of strategic planning processes and policies tend to go towards the developers already. We don't have a community benefits agreement. So the policies that we have right now, currently are driven by developers. And now we're saying let's give those folks in the neighborhood that want to stay in the neighborhood a voice. So all we're doing is say hey OSP, City of Buffalo, This is being driven by developers, and if we let the developers drive it by themselves, we're not going to see community development agreement or community benefits agreement. If the developing community has their way, you won't see it. But we speak for the residents of the City of Buffalo and those people in our respective districts that are, don't have a voice in this process, but now we're trying to give them a voice as well. So I agree with you, this is the beginning. We don't have anything before us. If people are complaining out there, or developers say, hey, we don't even have anything to show you right now, what are you against that you haven't even seen? So I would certainly tell them that wait to see the final product. In the meantime, we have seen developers that say it can work. We have proof in our respective districts, whether it's in your district, whether it's even in my district, in the Elmwood Village, one of the most influential districts. Developers are saying, we're going to do it. These are the Nick Sinatras, the Paladinos that are now coming in our respective districts and say we're going to do affordable housing in your district. So it can work. So for those developers that are saying no, it can't, you know, wait to read the information. Why make a decision before you have even seen it? I mean, I wouldn't make a decision or come to an assumption or conclusion, but I don't have anything in front of me. So I ask that you bear with us. Let's work with the administration. Councilmember Wingo mentioned this has been going on long enough. I submitted my questionnaire today on all of the things that check off lists, and I hope every councilmember does it as well. And I hope that we speak not only for the developing community, but the community at large. Thank you very much. And I think that what we've heard, whether it was from Councilmember Wingo, Councilmember Golumbac, is about paying attention to districts and what is needed. what councilman gloombeck is concerned because his constituents are concerned about something that's what he who gets elected by he better stand up for me should and as a council working together i think we have worked very well together to hear and to try to craft something that we that is not just a one-size-fits-all but one that that has some elasticity for the districts and what those needs are all right great Next item. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, January 16th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on community development, Tuesday, January 16th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, January 16th, 2 p.m. Special committee. Committee on education, Tuesday, January 16th, 12 p.m. Council Members, any announcements for your district? I'm having a community breakfast, a second... No, just kidding. Council Member Wingo. Yeah, Mr. Cha, I think any one of us in here are qualified to make the announcement for me. I say it every week. But I really would like to continue to promote the stakeholders meeting in Mastin District, which is the second Saturday of every month. This month it's on the 13th at 8.30 a.m. 877 East Delavan at the Delavan Grider Center. We serve you breakfast at 9 o'clock. Come in at 8.30, you will get the information directly from me. A quick little exchange between myself and all of the constituents who are there. Then at 9.30, we hear from various partners and stakeholders in the district who have programs, initiatives, and events that they would like for the community to take advantage of. So it is very beneficial. And like I said, we feed you. This is every single month. And also, if you do not receive the newsletter from the Mass in District office, all you have to do is dial 851-5145. I'm not sure if we're the only district that does the newsletter every single month, but we publish a newsletter every month that if you only call the office and sign up, we'll send it to you every month so that you're made aware of all of the events and things that are happening in the Mass in District. So if you are not busy, And if it's not too early, 8.30 on Saturday the 13th at the Delavan Grider Center, Masson District Stakeholder's Meeting, where we serve you breakfast. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Franzen. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Next Saturday, January the 13th, there will be a Pivo, Pierogi, and Polka Festival at the Rory Market, so bring your dancing shoes. All right. Will you be dancing? Very doubtful. All right. Depends how much Pivo I have. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to invite the residents under the University District to our executive session on January 20th. From 9 a.m. to 12, we're asking all block club leaders or anyone that lives on the street that doesn't have a block club to join us at the Gloria Park Center. I'm talking about our agenda for this year and really try to engage the block clubs on knowing the commissioners, knowing their role and knowing how they can be more effective to making sure that their block clubs is well represented with the issues that pertain to the city. Thank you. Thank you. Any other council members? All right. Council majority. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilman Fontana. Sweet. Oh, great.