Clerk, please take a roll. All right. President Pro Tem Bowman. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Councilmember Golombak. Here. Majority Leader Houghton Pope. Present. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Court Miss present. Please stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, I'd like to welcome to the floor Reverend Al Robinson from the Spirit of Truth Urban Ministries to offer today's invocation. For those watching, in an effort to reflect the religious diversity across the city of Buffalo, we're going to be met with a new guest every week to offer a prayer for the council meeting. And Rev. Al Robinson is going to start us off on the right foot here this year. So, Reverend Al, welcome. As we come before you today, we honor and celebrate the city of Buffalo, a city under your grace and We express our deepest gratitude in our city, its leaders, and every citizen that calls it home. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. We're not yet discovered. I'd ask that we please keep in our prayers the family of Dylan Isaacs, the Bills fan who lost his life in Miami this past week tragically. A true Buffalo Bills fan and I ask that we please keep his family in our thoughts and prayers. Would none others just take a moment of silence? To start today's meeting we have a special presentation from Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you. Thank you, Council President. As you all may know, this month, January, is National Blood Donor Month. And today we are going to pay special tribute to Connect Life. And I would like to invite their representative, who is the Blood Donor Communications Supervisor, Zach Kinecki, to come forward, please. Thank you, Zach, for being here. I am going to not read this full proclamation for timing, but I just want to read the last paragraph. Now therefore, let it be proclaimed by the Buffalo Common Council that January is recognized as National Blood Donor Month. And we extend our deepest gratitude to Connect Life for their unwavering dedication to fostering a culture of life saving blood donation within our community. We appreciate your service and on that same token, The administration has put together a blood drive that will take place here at City Hall outside in Niagara Square on Tuesday, January 30th from 9.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. So that we may show our support for your efforts. And so here is your proclamation. And I will give you a moment to address the council. Thank you. January is National Blood Donor Month because it's typically a really hard time for blood donors. Whether you have everyone getting colds and COVID, we have drives getting canceled because of blizzards and windstorms. So this is a time to really thank the blood donors who do make it out, who selflessly give a piece of themselves literally to save the lives of their neighbors. Connect Life is Western New York's only community blood bank. We supply 70% of the blood used in local hospitals, and that's only there because of volunteer donors. These are donors who are not paid. Paid plasma donations don't go to hospitals, and there is no substitute for actual human blood. That blood is only there in hospitals because of these donors, this blood that's used for cancer patients, for accident victims, for mothers going in complications for childbirth. So thank you very much for this opportunity to thank our sponsors who hold blood drives with us, our community partners, who help us incentivize and give great gifts to these donors and the donors themselves who are really unsung heroes in western New York saving lives every day. Thank you. We're going to take a picture real quick. And you come up here. We got Selena up there. Oh, come. This way, sorry. Two seconds. There you go. Thank you for coming. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you very much for coming in today. Council members on a motion by Mrs. Halton Pope, seconded by Mr. Ferraletto. The minutes of this dated meeting held on December 26, 2023 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the late files. Clerk from the top, please. Item number one, Police Bolivian Association Tentative Collective Bargaining Agreement. Thank you. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Able number two, certificate of necessity, transfer of funds. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Able number three, investigatory findings of place suspended with pay. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Able number four, change order for Buffalo Zoo Giraffe House. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item number five, change order A1, land care. Motion to approve items number five through 12. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 13, notice of appointment, account clerk typist. Motion to send items number 13 through 19 to civil service. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowler. Item number 20, property manager. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 21, slaughterhouse license 1728 Broadway. Motion to approve with condition. Motion to approve with condition, seconded by Councilmember Bowman, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President, and I just wanted a moment to read those conditions into the record. I have been in communication with the applicant and he has agreed to one year sunset, which would require a meeting 30 days prior to renewal to discuss any potential impacts to the community. And so the renewal will be required. And contingent upon that one year sunset, also the licensee must install adequate air filtration mitigation systems per industry standards. And waste removal will be required on a daily basis when the operation is, when processing is operational, and that's on top of state and USDA guidelines. Thank you. Council member Nowakowski. Thank you Mr. President. So this is something where Council member Bowman and myself worked really together on because of the proximity of where it is in our districts. It's basically in the corner of Broadway and Bailey. And for most folks out there, they'll know that this is the old tops that closed down on Broadway. And so this area is very industrial, it's not adjacent to residents so I just wanna reassure people that are looking at this approval that this will be up to very high standards not impede residents around it but also we should be very happy that we were able to get a large parcel and structure back on the tax rolls sold and it will be more than just a slaughterhouse which At times, Council Member Bowman, I think that's an outdated term, but meat processing, which will be in the rear of the facility. But it will also be millions of dollars in there to be rehabbed for a supermarket there. So to bring a supermarket in that area, in the Broadway Bailey neighborhood where adjoins Fillmore and Lovejoy will be positive. And we look forward to working with the owner and the applicant moving forward. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Next item. Item number 22, parking, obtaining tow vehicle. Motion to approve items number 22 through 24. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 25, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report 2022-2023. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 26, cannabis license notice for 451 Elmwood Avenue. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 27, Coal Mingling Event Permit 69 West Chippewa. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 28, liquor license notice for 622 Main Street. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number 29, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number 30, appoint recreation instructor. Motion to send items number 30 and 31 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 32, Buffalo Common Council requested definitive timetable for the resumption of water fluoridation. Motion to send to community development. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. item number 33 letter and petition special use for 726 linwood motion to receive and file seconded by council member going back petitions item number 34 special use 62 lawrence motion to send both items number 34 and 35 to legislation and the city planning board second by councilwoman ever heard submission list civil service item number one a point complaint clerk Motion to receive and file item 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Finance, item number 6, cash flow report November 2023. Motion is to receive and file item 6, 7, and 8. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 9, enter fund loan request for a Riverside military renaissance level historic resource survey. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Goldenberg. Community development, item number 10, designated developer extension for Loads of Love. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number 11, report a self-reportion of 200 berkman. Motion to recommit. Motion is to recommit, seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Legislation, item number 12, Fuster, License 2619 Bailey. Motion to approve items 12 and 13 with the condition of a one year sunset. Seconded by Majority Leader, Halton Pope. Item number 14, local landmark for 1 Buffalo River Place and 11 Boston Place. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 15, Fulster License 2577 Bailey. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Resolutions, item number 36, Acquisition Fire Apparatus Aerial Ladder Bound Resolution. Motion to send items number 36 through, hand including, 65 to Finance. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Item number 66, Budget and Personnel Amendment. Items motion to move item 66 and 67 to finance as well seconded by council member for a little I don't number 68 budget and personnel amendment motion to approve items number 68 and 69 seconded by president pro temp Bowman and number 70 Commissioner deeds motion to adopt items number 70 and 71 so that my councilwoman ever heard Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, January 16, 2024 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance. Following civil service is Tuesday, January 16, 2024 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, January 16, 2024 at 1 p.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, January 16, 2024 at 2 p.m. Special committees. Committee on police oversight will be Wednesday, January 10, 2024 at 11 a.m. Council members, any announcements for your districts? None? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second. You have an answer? Motion to adjourn, seconded by Council Member Wyatt.