Roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Present. Councilmember Ferraletto? Here. Councilmember Golombic? Here. Councilmember Nowakowski? Present. Council President Pridgen? I'm here. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Councilmember Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyant? Here. Form is present. List, stamp, and pledge.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag, of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our Council Chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warren. Good day to all on the Council and those that are viewing as well today. None of us has entered a new year like this in our lifetimes.
 The youngest of us, the oldest of us, unless we go back to a 1918 pandemic, would be prepared for what I'm calling the historic tension in which we find ourselves. Dickens says it well, the best of times and the worst of times. The author of Ecclesiastes says in chapter three, a time to weep and a time to laugh.
 And those are the very times in which we find ourselves, best of times, worst of times, some weeping, some laughing.
 For those who've waited for the Bills to have a season like this, there's laughter galore because of what's happened and what's still happening. And in the midst of that, our city, known once again as a place of incredible compassion, as more than a million dollars has been raised by Children's Hospital around Josh Allen and the Buffalo Bills. So it's more than just a winning team.
 It's all kinds of at-risk kids and children and babies. Many of us on the console, certainly I have been with parents with kids at Children's in the NICU, some of them for weeks and months. Many of you have experienced that as well, and you know what a treasure Oshai Children's Hospital is in our backyard. And here it's blessed by a quarterback for our team. At the same time of that best of times and time to laugh.
 There's the time to weep, the worst of times, pandemic with sickness and death in our community, our county and beyond. Businesses, some of them losing hope, but other businesses that are having record profits because they were essential businesses in this time.
 The contrast is all around us. It's in every one of our consul districts, every one of our neighborhoods. Deb and I were on the phone this morning with an 80-year-old pastor friend who was diagnosed yesterday with COVID. It's hit us, all of us on the consulate, so many levels, and then the vaccine comes. So as we enter this new year, and I was reflecting on how do you pray at a time of historic tension?
 How do you pray at a time that for some is the best, others the worst, some weeping and others laughing? How do we come alongside both in our own districts and our own families in our neighborhoods? Paul in Philippians 3 talks about forgetting what's behind and straining toward what's ahead, pressing on.
 It seems to me as we come into 2021 that a lot of people want to forget 2020. And Paul gives us permission to talk about moving forward and forgetting.
 For some of us, I think that is going to be important to have a cleansing of the memories. So as I pray now, I just want to pray that scripture and I want to pray for people who are in such tension because long term tension has consequences. And I would lift those citizens of Buffalo that are feeling that tension up as we pray together. Would you bow with me?
 You know the historic tension that our city, our region, our state, our nation, and the world is in right now. And Father, you know that in every one of our districts, there are people that are weeping and hurting, those that are experiencing the worst of times.
 Lord, for Deb and me, we've got people who are walking through that as well. I believe probably everyone on this call, everyone that's part of this is experiencing that. And yet in the midst of that, Lord, there's so much excitement about the Buffalo Bills and where they're going, the historic outpouring of contributions to children's. Lord, we thank you for good things that happen in tough times.
 But Lord, I do believe there needs to be some forgetting of very painful times, some healing of memories that happened for those who experienced so much pain and grief and hurt and loss in our midst. So Father, right now we lift them up to you, every single hurting person, and ask that you would press into them, even today. Draw near as only you can to people who are experiencing pain.
 I thank you that Lord, those that are weeping, that you are even now coming alongside them in wonderful and fatherly ways. Lord, I pray for the consul as they are juggling these historic tensions in finances and revenue and expenditures. Lord, there's a lot to balance and I pray today as they start the new year that it may not always feel very happy, but we pray it will be a blessed new year with your presence. We invite you now to speak
 to each of our leaders and help them to know and hear and find wisdom on the decisions that need to be made here and moving forward this year, we ask in your precious son's name, amen. Amen, thank you, Dr. Warner. Very fitting words. Council members, any memorials? Council member Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President.
 We lost in the city of Buffalo, Lenora C. Russell Brown, grandmother of a friend of mine, Chanel Ritchie from Sioux Falls, South Dakota, originally from Buffalo. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends in Buffalo.
 and also on a very personal note, and this is somebody that some of you, if not all of you may have met at one point or another, my very, very dear friend, Darren Van Every. Darren was a member of the Cayuga Nation,
 wolf clan um he would come to a couple council meetings every year he would sit uh he had been in an accident many years ago in which his legs had been crushed so he was in a wheelchair um so he would come to meetings and speak out on issues related to access and things like that he would usually sit up in the corner um native american just a wonderful wonderful man he was only 52 years old but uh he passed away suddenly at
 unexpectedly on this past Sunday. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his friends and family in the Riverside section. He was involved in the lacrosse boosters and all sorts of organizations, but this one really, really hit home, and I'm sorry for his family and his friends. Thank you, Councilmember. Councilmember Wyatt?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I'm just asking for the prayers. My family lost. My Aunt Leslie Williams passed recently, so my prayers are all to my uncle. My Aunt Leslie was one of those smiling faces at the convention center. She would greet you. She had worked there many years and recently passed. And also in my family, my cousin Darryl Rainey recently passed, and we just want to ask that you will keep them in your prayers. Thank you.
 Any others? I want to acknowledge and know that the city mourns the passing of former Council President George K. Arthur. Even now, from where I sit, his photo here is very, very prominent.
 in these chambers. He was a confidant. He was a statesman. He will be greatly missed. His services were last week and I had a chance to go by. And the amount of people that
 The amount of people that came through and that were walking into a view and to share their sympathy was overwhelming. He will be missed. I've told so many stories about him.
 And in these years, these 10 years of serving on this council, I would often call Mr. Arthur and have conversations with him and trying to sort out some things. He always cared more about people than he did politics, which I think is so important and he will be missed.
 other folks, Adrian Johnson, the young man who belonged to the True Bethel Church, a faithful usher, one who also worked at ECMC, and his life was in healthcare, caring for other people, and just a wonderful young man who
 unfortunately because of this virus has now transitioned on but him and others especially those who are suffering or who have passed on with COVID so many more numbers than we have seen in the past we remember them. Any others?
 Hearing none other, we always remember our men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country, for the freedom of other countries across the world. We pause in these chambers for all of those names mentioned, and we pause for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on December 22nd, 2020 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Now, taking away your right to pause the meeting if you have not been able to review an item. I believe we will be taking one item out of order, Mr. Majority Leader. You're still on mute, sir.
 Council President, motion to take item 20 out of CD, out of order. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 20, discharge item 20-1453 from community development. Motion to adopt. Adopted by Council Member White. Thank you, sir. From the top. Item number one, CDPB funding agreement, third continuation. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number two, DDA amendment to add 635 West for Buffalo Neighborhood Stabilization Company. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Gallambeck. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Gallambeck. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes.
 Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyeth? Yes. Item number three, fiscal year 2019 to 2020 popular annual financial report. Motion to send finance items three and four. Second by Council Member Bolton. Item number five, addendum number two to 2018 City of Buffalo and PAL agreement. Both can receive and file. Second by Council Member Scanlon.
 Item number six report of bid south item bridge replacement. Motion to approve item six through nine. Second by Councilmember Galambeck. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto. Yes. Councilmember Galambeck. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. Yes. Councilmember Wyeth. Yes.
 Item number 10, status change principal engineer. Motion to send civil service items 10 and 11. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 12, EAP change child and family services. Motion through, approved. Second by Council Member Scania. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Galambach. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen.
 Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 13, Liquor License Notice 298, Maine. Motion to receive and file items 13 and 14. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 15, Appoint Head Exterminator. Motion to present service items 15 and 16. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo.
 Item number 17, public comments, 982 Broadway. Motion to send the legislation item 17 and 18. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 19, zoning map amendment nine and 11, city ship canal from M3E to DIL zone. Motion to send legislation and city planning board. Second by council member Bowman. Submissions list, civil service, item number one, appoint fire captain. Motion is to approve items number one through and including five.
 second by council member noakowski council member bowman yes council member ferraletto yes council member galambic yes council member noakowski yes council president pritchard yes council member yes council member scanlon yes council member wingo yes that's member wyatt yes item number six a senior first class stationary engineer
 Motion is to receive and file items number six through and including 11. Second by Councilman, President Pro Tempstam. Finance, item number 12, Apollo Media Center removal and installation of security cameras. Motion to approve. Motion to approve items 12 and 13. Second by Councilmember Irvira. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? No.
 Yes. Council Member Bielanek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council Member Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Community Development, item number 14, DDA extension for 321 Olympic, 14215, former school number 78.
 Okay, this came without recommendation. Council member Wingo, I believe, was in communication with the people involved in this. So I would go for his recommendation. My staff has been in contact with the applicants and we needed to ensure that the extension, which is just that, an extension of what they had previously had because we were not interested in having to go back to our community.
 and tell them that they were asking for something different from what they originally asked us for regarding this DDA. Therefore, we are going to approve this for today, provided that everything that they asked us to do with this building is exactly as it is or was when they asked us the first time. So motion is to approve, Mr. Chair. Okay, motion is to approve. You wanna approve all three of them, Chairman?
 And the next one, yes, 14 and 15. And 16. Can we go back to the sheet, please? Yeah, motion is to approve 14 and 15. 16 was discharged. Yeah, so that's an approval also. Okay, motion then to approve. Second by the Majority Leader, Rivera.
 uh council member of bowman yeah council member ferraletto yes that's remember yes council member noel kowski yeah that's the president pridgin yes council member rivera yes council member scanlon yes council member wingo yes that's my wife yes
 and what is item before you call the next item i just want to state for the record that the designated developer agreement for 160 162 164 best and 1145 michigan because that is obviously city land and the developer is interested in putting housing we have been in
 conversation with them about some affordable housing there because this is they do have a market rate project the developer has been very very open to adding a percentage of affordable housing to this program so I just want to thank my colleagues for continuing to have this conversation that when we are going to sell city land and there's going to be a housing project how important in these neighborhoods that have
 that are seeing gentrification, that some people are still able to stay. Right now it's an empty lot, nobody's able to live there. But there will be possibly approximately 30 units and the developer is working on at least 10% of those units being affordable housing. And that was...
 that wasn't a hard road to plow. They were in agreement and they said if they can find some other monies, they would even increase that number. So that's important in that medical corridor. So thank you. Next item. Legislation item number 17, special use permit 335-DOTE for primary slash secondary school. Motion is to approve 17
 of 18 with the following conditions installation of a wood fence on both sides of the rear to buffer noise installation of greenery along the fence to buffer noise patio to close at 10 pm sunday through thursday 11 pm friday and saturday no speakers outside and motion to approve 19 and 20 also
 Second by Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferletto? Yes. Councilmember Golomek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Item number 21, support for repeal of chapter 69, alcoholic beverages. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 rules. Number 22, amendments to 2020-21 council rules. This is before us. For the record, I think we have a copy of it. The amendments to the council rules will be changes to rule number 27, Sergeant at Arms. The enforcement of rules amendment has been removed. We will utilize the, as our
 Rules says the Roberts Rules of Order, the common council will continue to use Council Rule 30, a parliamentary procedure manual, which is Roberts Rules of Order, which answer some of the questions that we've been grappling with, or any council procedures not spelled out in the council rules, as well as Council Rule 28 for disorderly behavior. And that is the changes of those. Council Member Winkle.
 Thank you Mr. Chair. Can we read the amendment into the record for Rule 27? Sure. At each stated meeting of the Common Council, whether in person or through any form of video conferencing platforms,
 The designated sergeant at arms shall ensure that the council carries out its duties, which may include maintenance of council decorum. During calendar year 2021, committee meetings, the president of the council and or his or her designee shall accept the duties of the position of sergeant at arms. Definition of decorum, decorum, this is a change here. Decorum shall mean conduct in a manner that is consistent with professionalism and is understood to be dignified, proprietary of behavior, conduct, speech, and dress.
 The Sergeant at Arms shall be a Council Member and shall attend all meetings of the Council and remain in attendance until the close of the session unless otherwise ordered. The Sergeant at Arms shall obey all orders, standard procedures of the Council, including to execute all written orders of enforcing the attendance of absent members. At the reorganization meeting to be held in January 2022, the Sergeant at Arms duty shall be performed by the President Pro Tempore of the Council.
 Mr. President, does that include all of the committees and special sessions, or is it just for the Committee of the Whole that the Sergeant-at-Arms will be required to be present or their desk? Whichever, yes, it would be all meetings or the President. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions? The motion is to adopt, I believe. Motion to adopt as amended. Motion to adopt as amended, seconded by Councilmember Wise. Thank you.
 Resolutions. Number 21, sidewalk snow removal program proposal. Motion to adapt the resolve, the remainder to CD. Second by... I know Mark. Second by Council Member Wyeth. Item number 22, staff receipt ordinance amendment request. Motion to send to legislation.
 This is in the legislation. This is a ordinance that, second by Councilman White, this is an ordinance that has already been, by executive order, the mayor has stopped receipts, or ordered to stop receipts for, if
 if there's not a ticket issue. This would have some other information about demographics on it. This would just be a move to make that into law. So as we continue to talk about police reform, hope people see that this council has moved a lot of items forward. Thought that this one was...
 important to get done, especially because this was one that the community had asked for consistently and constantly. I think it protects the citizen and the police officer just as we moved on the cameras and on other items of police reform.
 I wanted to continue that and I know some cities after the protest stopped so does some of the work this city it has not we continue to move this police reform agenda I believe in a positive way for all sides that are concerned so this will be going to legislation second I believe we had a second second by Councilman Wyatt
 Council member White is asking to be added to the resolution. Can you add me as well? Please add council member Riviera to the resolution. Please council member Wingo to the resolution. Alrighty. So we're gonna adopt the resolve, send the remainder to ledge and leave it to make sure we're doing the right thing on the motion. Motion stands. Mr. President? Yes, sir. Council member Glumberg. Can we revisit item number 21 please?
 Can we come back to it at the end? Yeah, that would be fine. Would you be okay with that? Yeah. Okay, sir. Thank you. Next item. Item number 23, endorsing WETI application to New York State HCR for funding under New York Main Street program. Motion to adopt items 23 through 26. Seconded by Council Member Golumbik who has the, oh, wants to revisit item number 21. Motion to revisit item 21.
 Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Councilmember Golombek, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Not only did I want that item to go to community development, but I would like to have copies of it sent and request that commissioners from various departments opine on it. I would like Commissioner Helfer, Commissioner Finn, and Commissioner Estrich.
 to be given copies of it for their opinion. And if available, I'd like them to be at the community development meeting next week and be able to answer some questions about it, as well as Justin Booth and the pedestrian board. I'd like to have him or somebody from his group or,
 as well. This is something that I brought up in the past, and unfortunately, it's never really gotten any traction. But in some other cities, Syracuse in particular, the city actually does shoveling of sidewalks. I don't believe it's in the entire city, but only in certain aspects of the city.
 and unfortunately for us, we had an accident, I think two weeks ago, in which a couple, the young woman, I believe, was in a wheelchair on Bidwell Avenue, admiring a house during the Christmas holiday season with the decorations, and there was a hit and run in which she and her friend were both struck. I believe that they're...
 Okay. But, you know, the sidewalks were not shoveled. This is also one of my personal pet peeves. When I walk around in the neighborhood, I have a little pad with me and I'd mark down the addresses of properties that are not shoveled. And I report them on a regular basis. And, you know, I just shake my head at the number of businesses
 at the number of rental properties and the number of owner-occupieds. And I'm not talking about senior citizens. On my block, people get together and they help out the neighbors who have issues that are not able to shovel their sidewalks, but
 You know, it's sort of the same offenders on a regular basis. Personally, I'd like to see a crew of inspectors go out, you know, 36 hours after a snowstorm and ticket every single property that has not even attempted to shovel their snow and use that money, you know, towards, you know, the city of Buffalo's pedestrian efforts.
 but that's, you know, we haven't really been able to do that in North. And that's with me trying to get as many addresses in as possible when they're not shoveled. So I think this is something that we should take a look at. I'm very, very open into, you know,
 how it would be run, if it's even feasible, you know, what the costs would be. I know that the union has said that they'd like to have union employees. I've gotten calls from people that have said they'd like to see, you know, neighborhood organizations like the Boys and Girls Clubs and stuff in groups like that, you know, have an opportunity to be able to do it. And
 as well as local contractors that are city of Buffalo businesses. So I'm very, very open to this idea and would love to have some discussion from the people that I've requested be added and invited to next week's community development meeting, as well as my colleagues, because you all know, you know, from your districts, the problems far better than I do, but I'm sure that some of the
 problems are similar. You know, the lack of shoveling and so on and so forth. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. And I know you, this has been a passion of yours since I've been around on this council and trying to push for it. And I think that all your words are totally correct, especially about the safety of people in our neighborhoods. So thank you for continuing to stay on this. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. If it's okay, I would like to be added to the resolution.
 Because ever since I've become council member of Maston District, we've had efforts to help our senior citizens keep the snow from the front of their homes. Of course, we've run into bureaucratic issues recently.
 So we weren't able to do it to the extent that we would like to have done it. But I absolutely agree with all of the sentiments of my colleague, Council Member Golumbik. The city, we don't approve store licenses to applicants who don't clear the snow in front of their businesses. They have to be both troubled and salted. I think that this is something that we should take a little bit more serious, being that the city of Buffalo has such...
 wonderful winters. So with that being said if we can I would like to be added to this item. Councilmember Wingo to the item. Councilmember Nowakowski. I'd like to be added to the item. Thank you sponsor. Councilmember Nowakowski to the item. All righty. Majority Leader? No other items? Is that it? That's it. Councilmembers any announcements for your addition? And then we'll have the announcements from the club.
 All right. Announcements from the clerk. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Regular committees, committee on civil service Tuesday, January 12th, 2021 at 9 45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service Tuesday, January 12th at 10 AM. Committee on legislation Tuesday, January 12th at 1 PM.
 Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, January 12th at 2 p.m. All right. Council Majority Leader? No other items. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Bowman.