Present. Council member Farrelletto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Council member Nolikowski. Here. Council president Pridgen. I keep. Majority leader Rivera. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge and council member Scanlon can you choose one of the one of to come down and lead the pledge.
 If we have his name for the record. All right. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, one nation, with liberty and justice for all. As you remain standing, I'll chaplain the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Consul President. As I look around the chambers today, I...
 It feels like the luckiest day in a long time with that many shamrocks in front of me, quite frankly. So welcome to the next generation and the next and the next. Today, as you may have noticed, my wife Deb's not with me. It was Take Your Son to Work Day, so my son Nathan has joined me in the chambers. And it's a new year as we start, new members that are joining the council as well.
 One of my son's favorite scriptures, Nathan's, that he used to include on the bottom of every email he sent for many years is Proverbs. And in this particular proverb, 2918, the reading is, where there's no vision, the people perish. Where there's no vision, the people perish. Sort of expanded on over in Habakkuk, write the vision and make it plain on tablets. Vision is
 or lack thereof, sets the course for cities and nations. Tragically, there are people with bad vision that tank the destiny of nations and cities and families, corporations. But as we start the new year, in a year that is labeled 2020, it seems appropriate to pray for 2020 vision in the year 2020. The better and clearer the vision each of the nine of you have, the better our city will be.
 If your vision is clear, all the constituents that you represent will walk easier, live easier, work easier, have families that function better because the vision starts at the top and casts for the entire body. So we want vision for the shamrocks and that generation that's still among us and the generation that will follow them, but you get to cast it this year.
 I want to pray that you won't need eyeglasses like several of us are wearing, but your 2020 vision from God will be clear enough to where literally you'll be able to see as never before. Nathan, it's a great scripture, one I love. Thank you so much for giving it to your dad for so many years. Can we pray together? Father, as your word says, where there's no vision, the people perish. And Lord, we have seen what it looks like to be in a city where people have perished.
 Lord, you know that in each of the council districts, there have been far too many funerals. And Lord, for some of us, we've been to too many kids in caskets. But I believe that, Lord, you want to make the vision clearer for the future of our city moving forward. I pray for each of these nine council members, the districts they represent, the citizen and constituents that they're part of.
 Lord, I pray that in 2020, they'll have 2020 vision, that it will be clear. It will be a servant leadership vision, not just based around self-serving, but self-sacrifice. I pray, Father, this city will be better because each of these has answered the call to come and to serve. Lord, we listen to your voice, and as you cast vision, may we be able to partner with you to make Buffalo a better place.
 I pray a blessing on the next generation and the next generation and the generations in this chamber today. They represent lots of just like them around the city. Bless and expand all the vision and visionaries of our city. I pray in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Council members and memorials. Council member Golombet.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Peter Kashilian passed away. Some of you might remember his son, Mike, an attorney who had come in front of the council, worked with us in regards to the food truck ordinances many years back, and also...
 his sister Caroline, who I worked with on some issues in the past. Dad will be sorely missed by his family and his friends in North Buffalo. Also, Eugene Letempio passed away.
 Gene was the son of former council member Rose Letempio and young Rose Lakatos who used to work here in City Hall as dad and Many of us know Jay who works in city hall. It's her husband who passed away He was a younger man Gonna be very very sorely missed by his family and his friends Any others?
 We have lost one soldier since our last meeting, and we always keep in prayer and in our minds those who have lost their lives who we may not have known and those who are in danger even as we speak, but who serve our country. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. You may be seated. Thank you.
 We have several presentations. We're going to start with Council Member Firiletto because we have...
 In the chambers are superintendent of schools and guests that are with him from, I want to say Albany, sit by Albany, and they came out of his office to come and be present for this presentation. One of them used to be my professor of counseling. She taught me counseling and she's here, Dr. Leslie. And thank you all for pausing your meeting to come down with the superintendent. Thank you very much.
 Hey, we would like to recognize Anibal Solar. If you want to come on down.
 so i had the pleasure of meeting it was then he was a principal at north park academy right when i got onto the council i think it was 2015 or 2016 and i was advocating for north park academy to become a community school a community school the the schools were i think there were there were a few at that time in buffalo and we were hoping that the
 then it was school 66 became one because it was certainly i thought it was needed in that area and since then the school has opened it's thriving and that says a lot to the the work that the buffalo public schools have done with the superintendent and we wanted to we wanted to recognize you today since in two weeks you're going to batavia to be the superintendent of the schools in batavia and it's just
 such an honor to have you here, your family here, other representatives from the Buffalo Public Schools. And when we met, like I said, it was 2015 or 2016, I had a feeling, I'm like, he has so much passion, he has so much energy, I mean, his energy is just
 magnetic and it rubs off on people and it makes people work harder and do more and I did I had a feeling I Said this guy's going big places and like a few months a few months later He was appointed to the superintendent's cabinet and he was just appointed to be the superintendent in Batavia, so I'm Absolutely thrilled for you and for your family. I also want to point out that He's the third
 the third cabinet member from superintendent Kriner cashes cabinet that has been Picked to be a superintendent in a different city in the last two years. So that shows a lot about your instinct and people in the way that you hire and Your team and the practices that you use and it just says so much about The Buffalo Public Schools that three people in two years have moved to superintendent. So I just wanted to quickly I
 read just a couple items in this. Anibal Soler, Jr., born of Puerto Rican descent to a young single mother, was always taught that education is the fundamental stepping stone to be successful and improve life, and is a proud husband and father to four children. He continues to teach them that education should be valued always.
 In addition to his focus on Latino education organizations, Anibal Soler Jr. also spent six years of his time living in Rochester as a high school principal, and through the years he served as technology instructor and an art teacher.
 After working as principal of North Park Academy in North Buffalo currently the associate superintendent of strategic alignment and innovation for Buffalo Public Schools and he's accepted a position as Superintendent in the Batavia School District to continue to grow as an educator and share his passion and we all of the Buffalo Common Council members want to recognize you and all of your great accomplishments throughout your career so
 Just a couple of remarks. One, it's quite an honor to be recognized in these chambers. But more importantly, it's an honor to work for Dr. Cash. So four years ago, he took a chance on me as my family relocated to Buffalo. And, you know, he's a good recruiter, to Joel's point.
 But he's not also a good recorder, he's a good teacher. So I will be remiss if I don't say this, the superintendent here is pushing out a product not only for our kids and our community, but also think about the impact across the state. Peekskill City Schools,
 Poughkeepsie City Schools, now Batavia City Schools, has a leader who was grown here in the Buffalo public school system to help influence and change the lives of kids. And so I definitely want to recognize Dr. Cash and his leadership and trust in me. But I also want to commend Joel. So Joel has just as much energy in North Buffalo, so I don't want to fool you. He is all over the place. We've done some creative things at North Park. I think that is a great beacon of light for that community. I know our community school's efforts
 is adding the beacons of lights in every community in the east side of Buffalo, in the south side of Buffalo, in the west side of Buffalo. And if you see those community schools step in on a Saturday, you will be amazed at the engagement going on in those schools in the community. And lastly, I want to wish the city of Buffalo best of luck. It will always hold a special place for me and my family. And so thank you. Xavier is very lucky. Next we will have Councilmember Scanlon, President Pro Temp.
 We're going to get a little crowded here for a minute, but guys, why don't you come on down, all of you. Pack it in. One large huddle. So we have with us today an organization, South Buffalo Football, who for as long as I can remember has been doing two things. They've been taking the boys that come into their program and turning them into impactful men of their community and women. I apologize. Thank you.
 taking the youth of our community and turning them into impactful adults in our community. And the other thing has been winning football games.
 For decades now, South Buffalo football has done an incredible job, again, not just impacting these kids' lives, but again, winning championships both locally and nationally for decades. And a lot goes into that. There's several factors that go into creating that, not just one. The first being the dedicated men and women of the organization who put
 put in an incredible amount of time and effort and resources to ensure that these kids have everything they need to physically play the game, whether it be equipment, quality play fields, practice time, training, but more importantly, what they need to succeed in life. They teach them hard work, discipline, teamwork, fair play, trust, and it goes a long way. So I want to thank all of the adults of the organization for everything they do.
 They have incredibly supportive families throughout the organization who are coaching officially with the organization, but also at home. They're traveling all over the place for games and practices, and as the season progresses and they're more successful, they're traveling all over the region and sometimes across the country. And finally, and the most important factor, I think, are these young people.
 THE LEVEL OF COMMITMENT THAT THEY DISPLAY. THEY PUT IN FIVE DAYS A WEEK FOR NEARLY FOUR MONTHS EVERY FALL. IT'S AN INCREDIBLE AMOUNT OF DEDICATION FOR PEOPLE THIS AGE, AND THEY SHOULD BE COMMENDED FOR IT. AND I'LL TELL EACH AND EVERY ONE OF YOU, IT'S GOING TO SERVE YOU VERY WELL IN LIFE IF YOU PUT THIS LEVEL OF EFFORT IN EVERYTHING YOU DO. SO I WANT TO WELCOME ALL OF YOU TO THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS TODAY AND CONGRATULATE THE 2019 NATIONAL CHAMPIONS, SOUTH BUFFALO SHAMROCKS.
 The entire council wants to congratulate you on an incredible season and wish you well in the future. We have certificates for you. We have some pins for you. I'm not sure if anyone from the team or the coaching staff would like to say anything. You don't have to. You're more than welcome to. But any takers? First and foremost, I'd like to say thank you for having us down here, everybody. Thank you, guys, for all your service to the community and to the city. All you council members, thank you so much for everything you do. Guys, thank you so much. Really an honor. Thank you. Thank you.
 And finally, the meeting's going to start in another minute. You are by no means required to stay for the length of the whole meeting. You're welcome to again, but no, you do not have to stay. If you're not going to stay, we can maybe give them a minute to file out, and then we'll begin the meeting. And then we'll just maybe grab a picture. What we're going to do is when we come in, take an item right to the top because we do have some people that we'll make the presentation to, but we'll do it right after we vote it in.
 Right. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on December 23rd, 2019 are approved. The late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Seeing no objections to any of the late files, we'll hear the entire agenda. Now, take away your right to pause the meeting if you have not had time to review an item. We are taking one item out of order. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 42 out of resolution is out of order.
 second second by councilman feel up item number 42 trailblazing sign for Aldridge items open this item is open councilmember Thank You mr. chairman before I do my presentation have a speech I'd like to us to vote on this matter before I bring them to the floor you can go motion is to adopt motion is to adopt second by councilmember majority leader approve motion to approve second by councilmember now Kowski that's the floor
 Yes, um, nor Eldridge was a coach mentor and founding father of the best elite ducks football team. He tread east. Um, he tragically lost his life due to violence last September.
 two form a former peacemaker tracy mullins and the president of no more tears tina sanders were the ones who organized and brought to light the need for this trailblazing sign not only to honor nor but to help continue the healing process for the young men of the football team as well as for nor children parents and friends it is an honor as fillmore district council member to fulfill this request
 Today at my first council meeting I have asked you guys to humbly approve a trailblazing sign in his honor at the corner of Sycamore and Coons which is the entrance you need to go down to to the football coach where he? coached at nor was a lot of things to many of these young adults here in the audience and
 Christmas, back to school, everyday necessities wouldn't have happened without nor for the youth in our community, but also for the Genesee-Moselle neighborhood. Thank you. I'd like to bring them down. Thank you. Come on down. Too bad we left, but we also have a football team in green that can compete, so we're going to bring them down. Oh, you're national winners also? Oh, we need some of those rings. You're not bringing some of those rings? National champ, four times.
 Okay, so I'm going to not read the entire proclamation But I'm going to read the end before I allow a few other people to speak But I are now therefore I hereby proclaim that the Buffalo Common Council Celebrates nor Eldridge and hereby proclaim Tuesday, January 7th 2020 to be Norzel nor Eldridge day in the city of Buffalo Congratulations On a bit on that
 On behalf of the BC lead desk, we would like to just say congratulations to you and congratulations to the team who have really, really did a tremendous job throughout the year and all through the year.
 We not only win championships here, we go out to Florida and bring home national championships also. And we just want to say congratulations to the football players, to all the coaches, to all the team moms, and everybody else that participate in helping us to get together and win national and championships. And to Nui's mother.
 We just want to say we love you and we're going to always love you. And we have to be for these deaths. We keep on cracking. We are done. So we're not backing down on anything. We would love to have a playoff with the other team. And that's the truth. We are done. So we're not ducking. Before you go up the day that this tragedy occurred, I wasn't even in Buffalo.
 I hadn't met him that night. My phone rang. I think I was out of the country. Phone rang with adults calling, asking me to get to the media to inform them of how good a man he was. I did not make the call to the media. When I hung up, the media called me 10 minutes later and asked, did I know him? And I gave them the information. I've never had as many phone calls about a person or a coach before.
 from this community as I did about him. So we're honored in these chambers. And this is the council members first official act of being sworn in as the council member was this. From the top. Item number one, Beverly Gray Business Exchange Center.
 Motion to send the CDE items 1 and 2. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 3, report of sale 222, Byrd. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 4, report of sale 23, Gatcho. Motion to send the CDE items 4 and 5.
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number six, report a sale portion of 184 Gardner. Motion to approve items six and seven. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number eight, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Ferland. Item number nine, cash flow, actuals, and projections. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Ferland. Item number ten, common council regular committees. Motion to receive and file items ten and eleven. Second by President Proton.
 Item number 12, appointments of offices of the Common Council members. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 13, Buffalo Properties slash 435 Allicat Street. Motion to send CD item 13 and 14. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 15, appoint two temp members to the Board of Assessment Review. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 item number 16 change a contract lovejoy pool electrical improvements motion to approve item 16 through 19 saying my council member Bowman item number 20 appoint principal chief stationary engineer motion to send the civil service I don't number 21 permission to accept used equipment from Toronto Police Service motion to approve second my council member scan item number 22 full store license 1404 Clinton Street motion to send the legislation
 Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 23, food store license 2080 aka 2078 Niagara. Motion.
 Deferred to councilmember. Yeah, mr. President. Can we hold this in advance? My computer just stopped working. It's a late file I was trying to get all the information on it and my computer just stopped Okay, thank you. My question home the Baines second my customer Columbia. I had a number 24 2019 food store license renewals motion to send legislation items 24 through 27 say my councilmember why item number 28 purchase computer equipment surplus. I
 Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fira Little. Item number 29, appoint senior traffic court clerk. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Columba. Item number 30, liquor license notices. Motion to receive and file item 30 and 31. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 32, notice of appointments, temp provisional and permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Kite.
 I'm glum. Item number 33, appoint assistant legislative aid. Motion to adopt items 33 and 34. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item number 35, monthly city hall incident report. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 36, CVS over-the-counter medications. Motion to send finance. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. We can send this item to committee. My office just received a number of complaints about...
 the new prescription provider and some potential changes that may have been taking place. And we just want to have a conversation, get to the bottom, and make sure that nothing's negatively impacting any of the City of Buffalo employees and that all prescriptions are being covered the way they should be. And so we're just looking to have a conversation next week in committee. Okay. Thank you, sir.
 Next item. Item number 37, secret determination of type 2 action, special use permit of 1015 Fillmore. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 38, special use 1323, a.k.a. 1327 Jefferson for tobacco sales. Motion to go to central legislation and city planning board items 38 and 39. Second by Council Member White. Mr. Chairman, can we revisit item 23 in permits and inspections? Second by Council Member Bowman. This before us.
 is before us the item is uh motion is to approve most to approve second by councilmember columbia is that with conditions councilmember just no it's it's a re-approval okay that's what i thought but i wasn't sure all right submission list committee civil service item number one a plain associate accountant motion is to approve items number one
 Through and including items number five. Second by the majority leader Revere. Item number six, notices of appointment, temp provision on permanent. Motion is to receive and file item number six. Second by the majority leader Revere. Finance, item number seven, lease extension agreement for City of Buffalo and Alleyway Theater. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Community development, item number eight, moratorium on cell towers in residential areas. Motion is to adopt.
 Second by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor. I just want to say thank you to my colleagues for adopting this moratorium. I do realize that the moratorium really doesn't do much, but what it does allow us to do is have the conversation and give us an opportunity to inform our constituents when new cell towers are being erected in our communities. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Item number nine, report of cell 24.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Legislation, item number 10, food store license, 436 Main Street. Second by Council Member White. Item number 11, property manager license, C&M Rental. One moment. Motion to approve items 11 through 13. Second by Council Member White. Council Member Farrellito, item number 12 is approval of conditions. If you want to go back to that item.
 Let the record show that item number 12 has been seconded for approved, but it includes with conditions. Next item. Resolutions. Item number 40, fee waiver, Olmstead Color Run. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Feraletto. Item number 41, appoint marriage officer for Thomas E. Glead. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 43, set public care for disposition at 853 Washington. Motion to adopt items 43 through 45. Second.
 second by council member no Kowski the committee pause on second we'll go back at the next item I think you want to see somebody want to speak next item item number 47 budget and personnel amendment for comic console did you do item 46 was your last no I'm sorry we got distracted 146
 46 is the next one so we we took care of 44 but was there a council member scanley yeah motion to revisit 44. motion to revisit uh 44 second by council member why thank you council president i want to thank um fellow council members for their willingness to
 THIS CALL TO AMEND THE NEWLY ENACTED JUSTICE REFORM LAWS THAT TOOK PLACE OR TOOK EFFECT ON JANUARY 1ST. I THINK THAT THIS TYPE OF ISSUE IS VERY SENSITIVE, BUT I THINK IT SPEAKS VOLUMES OF THIS BODY THAT WE'RE WILLING TO WORK TOGETHER TO ENSURE THAT ANY OF THIS LEGISLATION, WHETHER IT COMES FROM THIS BODY OR ANOTHER BODY, IS DONE SO IN A WAY THAT DOESN'T NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE PUBLIC.
 I think we can all agree that the criminal justice system is flawed, needs to be reformed, and I applaud the New York State Legislature for their willingness to address the topic in an attempt to eliminate the disparities within the system, in particular how it impacts certain demographics.
 However, despite their best intentions, I think there were some unintended consequences that arose from the legislation. And I just want to be clear that we as legislators should be reforming our criminal justice system to create a level playing field for everyone. But we cannot alter to a point that may present some risk to the public.
 I know one of the hot topics within the larger package is the elimination of the cash bail. And I believe that judges should have some discretion when it comes to some of the more serious crimes that
 but within this statute there are several other issues if you speak to law enforcement their issues when it comes to discovery timelines with criminal proceedings as well as their ability to effectively interact with witnesses at times so i want to thank this body the attorney general the governor at this point district attorneys and law enforcement agencies from all across the state for
 for calling for some amendments to this legislation so that we can get it right, not just that we get it through, but that we do it in the right way. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank my colleagues for...
 uh taking this approach to address this issue you know like he said council member scanlon said it's a sensitive issue and i know i read the new york times article in which they talked about the legislation and i can tell you that i understand them trying to address some of the issues regarding the 1994 crime bill which is the reason why we're doing this right now however i hope that they'll take greater
 thought in this because as I think about cash bail and how individuals who may have done a misdemeanor or a nonviolent crime
 Some of those individuals can come right back to our community. And we have individuals, we have residents, we have seniors who may be concerned that this individual will be out on the street the next day after they called the police to have them arrested. So I think to have a judge have a greater discretion to look at that person's background and criminal history is appropriate.
 I don't think everyone should be released on bail just because, but giving them that discretion I think is important. I don't want to turn the clock back because I know and I understand that we need to have some reforms. However, I don't want to...
 throw the baby out with the bathwater. The 1994 crime bill showed us that sometimes we have to take more due diligence in making decisions, and not just because it's a knee-jerk reaction. I lived during that time when we had drug dealers shooting up streets.
 i understand why they had to do however those unattended consequences now has us with people in jail who are black and who are latino that are in in jail far greater than those who are majority so this is important legislation i hope they'll be thoughtful and utilize the resources they have with the with the governor along with the uh attended as
 Attorney General, State Attorney General, as well as law enforcement. We can't leave those people out of the conversation. We can't do this in a vacuum if we want to do it right. So I applaud my colleagues and their efforts, and I hope that the legislature will hear from us so that we have better legislation to help our justice system because it needs vast improvement. Thank you. And my colleagues, I apologize. I'm getting some with hands and then some on the computer, but we all don't have the computer. Council Member Golombek was next.
 And then Councilmember Fairlotto, I apologize. Thank you, Mr. President. You know, I want to commend my colleagues for putting this in front of us. And I was thinking about it, you know, about how basically the pendulum swings back and forth. And in the early 1990s, it was a let's get tough on crime. And I think that we made a terrible mistake when the three strike law came into or the
 the three strikes came into being. Because you took people that were, yes, breaking the law, but minimally breaking the law, and you took away the discretion of the judiciary to not hold them as accountable as somebody that may have been carrying cocaine or a very, very serious drug. I think that's part of the reason why we had such inequity in people that were going to prison, you know, that got busted three times for insignificant
 granted illegal, but insignificant amounts of marijuana. It's a huge difference than somebody that was carrying crack or something like this. Unfortunately, the pendulum has now swung, in my opinion, to the other extreme, where we want to take away from the judiciary, once again,
 a tool that they could use and this tool would be bell i just had in the past week a home invasion a block from my house woman had just stepped out for a moment went back in and somebody was in her house they kicked in the door and they were in the house and she was uh i got in touch with some of the neighbors and they said well we're afraid that when this person gets caught that they're going to be right back out on the street they've heard the horror stories of
 about what was going to happen as of January the 1st. And, you know, I'm sympathetic to them. I think that judges ought to have the opportunity to be able to put bail on offenders. I've never been a big fan of a one-size-fits-all approach. I do believe that generally as much as we have warts in our system, but that due process does work.
 um so i want to commend my colleagues for uh putting this in front of us and i support this wholeheartedly um and while i'm sympathetic to all people that have crimes committed against them etc the people that i'm the most sympathetic to are those victims of crime and those people that are afraid to go in front of a of a judge in front of a court and afraid to talk to a police officer
 I think that this is a, you know, I just think this is very unfortunate what New York State has done. And the last thing, you know, we just had two sports leagues that were in here from two different parts of the city of Buffalo, you know, representing probably hundreds and hundreds of children, young men, young women,
 that are given the opportunity to work hard, to play hard, and to be good people. I'd like to see more of those things than concerns about bail reform, etc., in the city of Buffalo. Thank you.
 real little thank you um i just wanted to thank all my colleagues um for the conversations that we have had on this and i know we've discussed it before but the these laws were passed with the intention of reforming injustices within the criminal justice system which we are in favor of but there were and there are unintended consequences that pose serious risk to the community and
 And it seems like in the last couple days, other state officials are either open to or asking for changes as well, which includes the governor, the New York State Attorney General. I've seen that in the news yesterday and today. So I'm optimistic that there are thoughtful amendments to be made to this, and hopefully the state legislature makes some changes. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 The legislation, we can't forget what it's intended to do. I think every bill that's passed is going to have some unintended consequences. They're going to have some extraneous confounding factors, unforeseeable for that matter, that we're going to contend with. I don't want folks to fall victim of any fearmongering either though.
 But the fact of the matter is this bill is in place to address disparities. It's in place to address the disproportionality and the adverse effects that it has on people of color in particular. So I just want to say thank you to my colleagues who actually went back.
 and modify and revise this resolution, one that I could sign off on, knowing that even though we are urging the amendments to occur, we are still not forgetting the heart and the spirit of this bill, which was to ensure that people who cannot afford bail,
 do not have to worry about sitting in jail waiting for a hearing date because they simply cannot afford to post bail to get out. So again, thank you for listening to us as you redraft this resolution. And again, I don't want us to forget
 why this legislation is in place in the first place, and that is to work particularly against the disproportionality that has affected people of color. And as it relates to taking power away from the judges, of course, our criminal justice system needs reform.
 But I believe even more so than the justice system needs reform are the hearts and the minds of the people who have the power to enact the laws that are in place as they have discretion to do so in the first place. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also think it's a good note to note that we all did sign off on this resolution and came together as colleagues, which is very important. We can all agree that our criminal justice system was in need for reform. That portion is not up for debate. There is a racial and socioeconomic disparity element to cash bail that we as a council cannot ignore. Under the current state law, we are discussing a judge can only detain someone if the judge believes that that person is a flight risk.
 But there needs to be a mechanism that allows a judge to have the autonomy to evaluate if an individual charge is a threat to public safety and set bail accordingly. In my consideration of this resolution, I had to think about the resident in Fillmore.
 who may be arrested for the same misdemeanor as a person from the first ring suburb, but they would be detained longer. We all know why. Simply due to the fact that they cannot open their wallets and post their own bail. For families with resources, life moves on. For those who don't, life is frozen and uncertain. We must make sure that these reforms address the disparities in our criminal justice system, and I believe that as this resolution amended, it addresses both. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to go on record in support of this resolution. Thank you to my colleagues. And I have received a lot of calls over the last 24 hours in regards to this and Facebook messages and other messages throughout the office. But I did want to go on record in support of this. We need to address the unintended consequences while also keeping in mind the disparities. So thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I agree. I think we have to consider the intent of the legislation when it was created. The intent was good. The actual drafting of the law was deficient. And I think we can see it in the fact that they want to revisit it now and amend it. I believe the judge should have some discretion in terms of...
 whether or not to issue bail. However, as Councilmember Wingal mentioned, you want that discretion to be applied equally and evenly.
 because when you do give somebody discretion, you give them an awful lot of power that they could either hold people in custody or not. And you may have two people come in in different courts for the same incident or the same charge, and they would be treated differently. So we want to make sure that when they're factoring all those things in,
 How much discretion to give the judge. How the judges use this discretion and when they should use this discretion. Is it when it's an incident where you have somebody who's a repeat offender? In that case, the person is a repeat offender one, sometimes twice, three times. In that case, judge should have some discretion. Say, look it, you've been before me a number of times. So the judge should have some discretion, but how it's applied, I don't know how you can legislate that.
 But I'm glad to see the legislature seems to be willing to amend it, and I hope when it's all over, it's better legislation than what was initially proposed. Thank you very much. Thank you. So as we move forward with this, I think one of the things that all of us wanted to make plain was our support for bail reform. I think I heard that from each one of my colleagues.
 And this is about inequality. That's what this whole reform. So one of the things I do want to thank is our state delegation for even moving forward with some reforms to our criminal justice system. And what I'm happy about, the same thing that occurred at this council, is that there was discussion.
 There were changes that we all agreed on. Therefore, this goes forward unanimously. And my hope and prayer is that those who are in Albany will do the same, that they will discuss, that they will examine, and that they will make the necessary changes to ensure that people are treated equitably, but at the same time, we know what the real deal here is.
 people sitting in jail who cannot afford it. Each one of you have said that wonderfully, so I won't repeat it, but just agree and echo. Next item. Item number 46, budget of personnel amendment for citizen services. Motion to approve items 46 and 47. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 48, Commissioner Deeds. Motion to adopt items 48 and 49. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 50, transfer of funds for fire, machine, and equipment repair. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Motion to approve.
 Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, January 14, 2020 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, January 14, 2020 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, January 14, 2020 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development is Tuesday, January 14, 2020 at 2 p.m. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Council member Wingo with the menu.
 Yes, sir. Listen, this Saturday, January the 11th, at the Delavan Grider Center, Mastin District will host again its monthly stakeholders meeting. This Saturday is going to be special, though, so I'm inviting all of the black club leaders, if you're watching me now, I'm encouraging all of the news stations, before you put your cameras up, to record this very special announcement.
 that we have something very big happening at the Delavan Grider Station on Saturday at 8.30. We have a major announcement, which the community has come together to ensure that we memorialize and ensure that we create history again.
 So again, this Saturday at 8.30 in the morning at the Delavan Grider Center, please come to the Mastin District Stakeholders Breakfast. We have a huge announcement that we'd love to share with everyone. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So it sounds like you're taking a book out of the governor's page.
 inviting us to something and we have no idea what we're coming for. Listen, listen, listen. I've been around you guys long enough to learn something now, so I'm getting a little good at this, you know. Any other announcements? Council Member Wyatt. We're making history also in the university district also. But I'm going to tell you what it's about. Okay.
 This is our first event, Making Money Moves. It's going to be taking place at the Olmstead School on Saturday, January 11th from 9 to 12. We understand that we have poverty in our community, and we have to help people to understand how to do better with what they have. This will be a seminar for anyone who is interested.
 regarding financial literacy, savings, credit management, first-time home buyers, how to take Section 8 and utilize it to buy your home, college prep, even as far as seniors, how to manage seniors and their care. So this is going to take place again at Olmstead School this Saturday from January 11th from 9 a.m. to 12. We thank our sponsors, MET Bank, KeyBank, and Erie County Legislature, April Baskins. This is something that we're going to do every year.
 is extremely extremely important for us to help help teach our folks some financial literacy and hopes um they can better their lives because we know sometimes we don't have control of their paychecks but hopefully we can give them information how to use their money better and they will own their own homes and be able to do better and be able to invest in their community not just be consumers thank you amen any other announcements all right second by council member bowman