Bo Judge, City Court Judge, Chief Judge, Shahar Preja. Thank you, Councilmember. Good afternoon, everyone. If you all want to be seated or if the council members would like to stand up, I don't know what you all have a preference as to doing. It's your house. I will obey your rules today. If you all can please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, in states or individual names, do promise and swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States of America, the Constitution of the State of New York. And I will faithfully exercise my duties as council member in the city of Buffalo, to the best of my ability, so help me God. Congratulations everyone. Good afternoon everyone. Happy New Year. Welcome to the January 2nd, 2024 organizational meeting. Today's meeting will conduct the City of Buffalo Common Council's election for council leadership, council committee assignments, and other positions within the council and city clerk's office. Madam Clerk, will you please call the roll? Council Member Bowman? Present. Council Member Everhart? Council Member Ferraletto? Here. Council Member Golombet? Council member Hawkins-Polk? Present. Council member Nowakowski? Present. Council member Rivera? Present. Council member Scanlon? Present. Council member Wyatt? Here. Corn is present. At this time we will have an invocation from Father Dave Richards. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Almighty and eternal God, you have revealed your glory to all nations, God of power and might, wisdom and justice. Through you, authority is rightly administered, laws are enacted, and judgment is decreed. We pray for our Buffalo Common Council this day, for abundant blessings for this year, for the members of the legislator, for judges, elected officials, and all others who are entrusted to guard our political welfare. May they be enabled by your powerful protection to discharge their duties with honesty and ability. Amen. Thank you, Father Dave, for your time and for saying a prayer over our great city of Buffalo and this Common Council. At this time, I'd like to ask the city clerk to call item number one off of our agenda. Item number one, appoint council president. Are there any nominations for council president? Council member Golombek. Thank you Madam Chair. I would like to place in the nomination Christopher P Scanlon of the South District for appointment as the council president of the Buffalo Common Council effective January 2nd, 2024. Thank you. Are there any seconds? Second. Are there any other nominations? Council member White. I'd like to nominate David A. Rivera. Are there any seconds? Hearing none, I think we are. Madam Clerk, will you please call the roll for Council Member Scanlon? For clarification, point of clarification from law, we did not on a second nomination receive a second. So that nomination is no longer, there only will be one nomination on the floor for Christopher P. Scanlon. Motion to close nomination. Having received motion to close has been accepted. Council Member Scanlon has been nominated for Council President. Please call the vote. Council members, you can submit yes or you can state the council member Christopher P Scanlon in order once called. Council member Bowman. Christopher P Scanlon. Council member Everhart. Christopher P Scanlon. Council member Ferraletto. Council member Scanlon. Council member Golombak. Christopher P Scanlon. Council member Houghton-Polk. Christopher P Scanlon. Council member Nowakowski. Christopher P Scanlon. Councilmember Rivera? Christopher P. Scanlon. Councilmember Scanlon? Christopher P. Scanlon. Councilmember Wyatt? No. It has passed with an 8-0, so Councilmember Christopher P. Scanlon has the votes for Council President. Are there any remarks that any Councilmembers may want to make? Hearing none, I'd like to invite Council President Christopher P. Scanlon up and take the oath of office. Promises where? Faithfully exercising. Did anybody warn you about your chair? No. You're directly in front of that. Careful, that's not blocking. That's why I used to sit there and move. Good afternoon everyone. I'm so thankful for and humbled by your presence here this afternoon. Your continued support is not lost on me and I want to thank each and every one of you from the bottom of my heart for being here today. I want to give a special recognition to the residents of and the business owners of the South District. It has been an absolute honor to represent you on these chambers and work with you in the district for the past 11 years. And I want to thank you for that. There's a few special acknowledgements I'd like to make for some people who are here. We're joined by former Mayor Tony Maziello. I'd like to thank him for being here today. Our district attorney, John Flynn, is here. Erie County legislator John Gilmore is with us. I want to thank Chief City Court Judge Jahir Pridgen for administering the oath of office. When I debated who I wanted to have swear me in, it was a pretty quick choice. Obviously the family name means a lot to these chambers and your position with city court as well. So it was an easy choice for me, so thank you for being here today. We are also joined by our Erie County Democratic Chairman, Jeremy Zellner is with us. I want to thank you for being here today, as well as the Mayor of Buffalo, Byron Brown. Thank you for being here, Mayor. Mayor, I want to thank you and I see a number of the commissioners within your administration are here today. So I want to thank you all for being here today and I look forward to continue to work with you, the council, as we move the city forward. So again, thank you for being here today. I've had the great fortune during my tenure on the council to serve with three men who had either served as council president while I was on the council or just before I arrived on the council and each one of them Taught me and I learned from them very separate and distinct values and skills that I've tried to utilize and I think have benefited me and I hope continue to benefit me as I move forward. The first of them was Rich Fontana. Rich taught me how to be a grassroots, boots on the ground, customer service council member. And there was no one better at it. We all know that there's no cause too large for us to take on. But Rich was always there to remind us there's also no job too small that we should be willing to take on. And whether you had to get out and cut some grass or shovel some snow, you had to get to it. So for that I'm very grateful, Rich, thank you. I also serve with former council president David Franczak who taught me and all of us to respect and to legislate through our charter. He lectured us about it and told us to hold that document near and dear to us and let it be our guiding light in these chambers. And for that I'm wiser, so I want to thank David. And finally, Darius Pridgen, a man who introduced me to a new level of community engagement. A man who preached independence and then walked the walk. And from that I'm a much better public servant, so I want to thank Council President Pridgen. I can't go any further without thanking my incredible wife, Katie, who's giving me a stern look right now. But none of this here at work and certainly nothing at home would get done without you. I thank you for the life that we've built together, and I love you. I want to thank my children, my son Thomas, who made me a father and taught me a love I'd never known, and to my girls, Adelaide and Siobhan, who made me a girl dad and took that love to another level. I love you all and I'm so proud to be your father. To my mother, my sister, my brothers, I thank you for your unwavering support for the past 42 years, in particular in the times that I didn't deserve it. To the rest of my family, my in-laws and my friends, I just simply want to say thank you for always being there. To my other family, the South District staff, words cannot express what you've meant to me for the past 11 years. We've been able to accomplish things on behalf of our residents as a direct result your commitment and your dedication to the residents of this city, our community, and to one another. I could not and would not ask for another team, so thank you. And to my colleagues on the council, I cannot thank you enough for bestowing this honor upon me. I do not take this privilege and I do consider it a privilege. I do not take it on lightly. And I want each of you to know that I will work every day to live up to the awesome responsibility that you have entrusted me with. As we all know, there are challenges ahead of us. As days become weeks and weeks become months, we'll have disagreements. There will be contentious debate and discussion. But I think at the end of the day, we'll be better off for it. And I know that because we have everything we need right here on this floor, sitting here to take Buffalo to the next level. To make Buffalo the cleanest, the safest, and the best city possible to live, work, and raise a family in. If we work together, if we use what we have here, experience coupled with fresh perspective, deep thinkers and collaborators, strategists, educators, fighters, and yes, finally, women. There is nothing that can stop this body from delivering for Buffalo and for all, and I repeat, all of its residents in an inclusive and equitable manner. We have an incredible opportunity in front of us to improve the lives of residents in each pocket of this city. In order to do that, I want us to break down any councilmatic barriers that exist. I want us to start viewing the city through a wider lens so that we know what the things that are happening in every corner of the city. And I think if we do that and we work that way together and we utilize the skills and the talents that are on this council, we will deliver for all residents. So again, I want to thank you for attending. I thank you for your support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next item. Item number two, rules of order for 2024-2025. Motion to approve. Motion to approve by Council Member Faralletto. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt by Council Member Faralletto, seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number three, appoint majority leader. Next item on the agenda is to appoint majority leader. Do I have? I'd like to open nominations for majority leader. Do I have a nomination? Council Member Faralletto. No. For the position of majority leader, I would like to nominate Leah Halton Pope. In the almost 200 year history of the city of Buffalo, Leah will be the second woman to serve as a majority leader. And the first woman of color to serve as majority leader. Thank you. Yep. Do I have a second? Council Member Rivera? Thank you. Mr. Chairman, it's my honor and privilege. to place or second the nomination of Leo Hope. I've had a brief experience with her in the last few weeks or maybe even months, but I have heard about her and her passion for her community, her legislative skills that many people know. I know that she will be an asset to this council. So I know it would be in good hands, I'm looking forward to supporting the majority leader and the work that the majority leader has to do in making sure that everything flows smoothly on behalf of nine different councilmanic districts with each one having unique problems. So I second the nomination of Leopold, thank you. Any other nominations? I second as well. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck as well. Seeing no other nominations. Motion to close nominations. Motion to close nominations, second by Council Member Bowman. Council Member Bowman. Leah Houghton Pope. Council Member Everhart. Leah Houghton Pope. Council Member Ferraletto. Leah Houghton Pope. Council Member Golombak. Leah Houghton Pope. Council Member Houghton Pope. Leah Houghton Pope. Council Member Nowakowski. Leah Houghton Pope. Council Member Rivera. Leah Houghton Pope. Council President Scanlon. Councilwoman Leopold and Hope. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes. It has passed 9-0. Yep. I state your name. We solemnly swear to support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York. We faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Majority Leader of the County of Buffalo. Next item, clerk. Item number four, appoint President Pro Tem. I'd like to open nominations for the position of Council President Pro Tem. Council Member Nowakowski. Mr. President, I'd like to place the name of Council Member Brian Bowman of the Lovejoy District as President Pro Tem of the Common Council for nomination. Council Member Bowman is a lot more than just my buddy, he's a great council member. We started at the same time. He's calm, cool, collected. He's going to be a peacemaker when there needs to be peace that needs to be brokered. And he's someone that has served on the Common Council, but before that served as a staffer, which let's face it, our staff are the backbone of all of us. And so he knows his place inside and out. And today is his day, and I couldn't be more thrilled. Thank you, Mr. President. Are there any seconds? I second. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Any other nominations? Motion to close nominations. Motion to close nominations, seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman. Brian Bowman. Councilwoman Everhart. Brian Bowman. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Golombak. Brian Bowman. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk. Brian Bowman. Council Member Nowakowski. Brian Jeffrey Bowman. Council Member Rivera. Brian Bowman. Council President Scanlon. Brian Bowman. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Congratulations, the next President Pro Temp is Council Member Brian Bowman. Bowman, who solemnly swear to support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of President Pro Temp of the City of Buffalo according to the best of my knowledge. Clerk, next item. Item number five, appoint City Clerk Tiana Marks. I'd like to nominate Tiana Mark. Motion. Motion to nominate Tiana Marks, city clerk. Motion to adopt, seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number six, appoint Deputy City Clerk Pamela Maggiore. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Glumach. Item number seven, appoint Deputy City Clerk of Vital Statistics, Millie Castro-Littles. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Buhlmann. Item number eight, appoint city clerk staff. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number nine, appoint council representatives to bureau. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number ten, appointments for common council legislative staff. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 11, appointments to offices of common council members. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 12, regular committee appointments. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 13, special committee appointments. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Gormack. Item number 14, appoint marriage officers. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member, President Pro Temp-Bowman. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Ladies and gentlemen, we do ask that we