Please stand for the pledge. Please take a roll. Councilmember Farrelletto. Councilmember Fontana? Present. Councilmember Francik? Here. Councilmember Golombek? Here. Council President Pridgen? Backy. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Councilmember Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum present. I'll get from the top please. Appoint Council President. I will now accept nominations for the position of Council President of the Buffalo Common Council. Councilmember Wyatt?
 Aye.
 Darius Pridgen? Aye. Darius Pridgen, do we have a second? I'll second. Council Member Franczak, are there any other nominations at this time? Seeing no other nominations, I will close the nominations and... Motion to close the nominations. Motion to close the nominations and move to a roll call vote. Council Member Farrell, let go. Councilmember Fontana? Councilmember Pridgen? Councilmember Fransick? Councilmember Pridgen? Councilmember Golombek? Councilmember Pridgen? Councilmember Pridgen? Councilmember Pridgen? Councilmember Rivera? Councilmember Pridgen? Councilmember Scanlon? Councilmember Sc- Councilmember Pridgen? Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember Darius Gibran Pridgen? Councilmember Wyatt? Wingo, really? Council President Pridgen? Yes, yes, Mr. Pope? I've got the process. Thank you to the President Pro Temp and to my colleagues again for the third time in the unanimous vote. I don't take it lightly, and I've said this before. I don't count it as my right, I count it as a privilege to sit in the seat that so many great presidents, including two of them who are still on this council, Councilmember Franczak and Councilmember Fontana, who have had this role and who continue to help and to mentor and to answer questions and give advice. really as I take this seat again do it remembering one of our council members who will be viewed today council member the curdle who early in this process supported me for this seat and so in his memory today we accepted we have accomplished a lot together whether it was a council agenda going live or people being able to get online and not only see what we were about to do, but to see it as we were doing it, and then to re-look at it, to look at it again after we did it, and be able to see every council member's vote. It's a pretty transparent government, if not one of the most transparent city governments in our area. to the changing of the technology in the chambers, the digital cameras so that those across the world are able to see the council, to the addition of a media department so that our press releases and the things that's going on in our district are represented. elimination of a lot of paper when I got here we had folders that were this thick and you had to get your folder before the weekend before you went home and hope you didn't slip and slide in the snow and now we have moved to a digital agenda that not only is easier for the council members and I remember councilmember Franczak said he'd like to be able to write in the margins but he He's not writing in the margins anymore. He's on his computer. And he came along and I'm the one now that can't get my computer started or get into it, not Councilmember Franczak, to our chambers and maintaining the beauty of these chambers. I don't know if the chairs in these chambers have been changed in 25 years. the lights that really are for aesthetic purposes more than anything and soon to happen in the back will be the new wheelchair accessible elevator that will allow people in wheelchairs to get to the council floor So we've done a lot and we have a lot more to do, but I think being transparent with government has been our number one goal, one of our number one goals. And when, after a while, Councilman Frantz, I can tell you, we've had times where every month there was another article about the Council and the fighting on the Council. And I remember a day where it was physical fights amongst some of the Council members. and we fight in a different way we fight for our constituents for our beliefs we're not rubber stamps as the as comes from a Revere often says we're all I believe doing the job that our constituents have sent us here to do so thank you again for your confidence in leadership next like number two rules of order motion to adopt Second by Councilmember Fairletto. Item number three, appoint Majority Leader. The appointment is open. Councilmember Wingo. I'd like to make a motion to nominate Councilmember David A. Rivera as our Majority Leader. All right. There's a second by Councilmember Wyatt. Are there any other nominations for Majority Leader? All right. Hearing none, we will have roll call. Councilmember Fairletto. Council Member Fontana? David A. Rivera. Council Member Francik? Council Member Rivera. Council Member Golumbac? Council Member Rivera. Council President Pridgen? Council Member Rivera. Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much. Council Member Scanlon? Thank you, Mayor Rivera. Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember David A. Rivera. Councilmember Wyatt? Councilmember Majority Leader David A. Rivera. Welcome. Councilmember Rivera is the Majority Leader for the Council. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to thank the leadership of the Common Council, yourself and Chris, for two years of working together to improve the relationship and to work for all eight members of the Common Council, including myself, which is nine. I pledge and commit myself to work along with all of the council members to continue the great work that has been accomplished over the last two, four, six years. You've been in leadership. I just want to thank everyone, including the staff. central staff the clerk's office we have one of the best staff and they certainly make things easier for us so I stand on the shoulders of a lot of people that are here leadership that has been here for a long time like Dave Franzik and and rich Fontana and the new young council members that brought enthusiasm and passion to the Common Council and I welcome that so much once again thank you for your vote and your show of confidence I commit to work for each one of you and be as transparent and open as I possibly can thank you Thank You council member Revere I would say that Councilman Revere has filled his role well in bringing us together, working through the budget process, which is one of the main jobs of the Majority Leader, and just keeping a cool head in really rough times. Congratulations. Thank you. Next item. Item four, appointment President Pro Tempore. Nominations from the Majority Leader. Councilmember Chris Haley. Councilmember Chris Scanlon, second by Councilmember Golombak. Are there any other nominations for the President Pro Tem? Hearing no other nominations, roll call. Councilmember Farrelletto. Councilmember Fontana. Christopher Scanlon. Councilmember Franzen. Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember Golombak. Councilmember Scanlon. Council President Pridgen. Councilmember Chris Scanlon. council member rivera council member christopher scaling council member scanlan scanlan oh i was about to say do we put that in a silence council member wingo council member wing i mean scanlan council member wyatt council member christopher p scanlan unanimous uh council member christopher p scanlan president pro-temp Sir? Yes, thank you, Council President. I just want to thank my colleagues for this honor. It's not something that I take lightly. It means a lot to me and it's... I take a great amount of pride in being able to be involved as much as possible in the Council and its proceedings and everything that takes place. It means a lot to me and I just want to let you all know that I'll continue to do as much work and as hard work as possible. One thing I want to say is I just want to thank everyone that works in our departments. the leadership in the clerk's office, Jerry Schvulinski and Tiana Marks and Millie Castro, the tremendous leadership they display down there and it really filters through that entire department. And then also in our council staff, the tremendous leadership we have with our chief of staff, with Malcolm Urtha who does just a wonderful job and he's done incredible work there in his time there in a short period of time. And I want to thank him and the entire staff, the council staff, for the tremendous work they do. I'm not sure if people at home know how much work that they put in behind the scenes in order to make everything take place here every week. So I just kind of want to thank them and thank you all again on the council for your support for this position. Again, it means a lot to me. Thank you. And our present pro temp does not just step in when the president is not here. We really do have a team, budget time, we're all together, staff situations, we're talking together, and the direction of this council. And so I thank you for not just being someone waiting in the background, but somebody who is active. And you've done a wonderful job. Christopher P.
 Scanlon. Thank you, sir. So what we'll do, instead of doing the swearing-in right now, we'll finish the others, because others have to be sworn in. We'll do the swearing-in ceremony all together. Next item. Item 5, appoint city clerk. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Do we need a roll call on this? We need to make nominations. Oh, we have to do a nomination on this one also. Oh, we have to do it. So let's rescind the nomination to adopt and just get a nomination for the Deputy City Clerk. The floor is open for nomination for Deputy, for City Clerk. City Clerk. This is for City Clerk. I'm sorry, for City Clerk. council member fontana i'd like to nominate mr gerald Falinski. Jerry has been here for many years and has been a gentleman, worked very hard for everybody in the building. And I want to thank him for his commitment to the city of Buffalo, for his family. He's raised three beautiful daughters here in the city and just been a fantastic person to work with. So, Jerry, once again, I don't know if you're going to make the whole term. Maybe you will, maybe you won't. It's up to you. But you always have a vote here when it comes to the Lovejoy District, and I'd like you to make that nomination. Is there a second? Second. It has been moved and seconded by the president, Pro Tem Scanlon. Roll call vote, please. Council Member Farrelletto. Chair H. Wollensky. House of Mayor Fontana? Falinski. Council Mayor Franzen? Gerald Falinski. Council Mayor Golombak? Gerald Falinski. Council President Pridgen? Are we saying it? Did you say Falinski? Chwalinski? Falinski. Oh, it's Falinski? It's Falinski. I really apologize. For all these years I've been calling you Chwalinski. Falinski. Falinski. Falinski. Council Member Rivera? Councilmember Jerry Shpilinski. I can't pronounce it, sorry. Councilmember Scalin. Gerald Shpilinski. Councilmember Wingo. Gerald Shpilinski. Councilmember Wyatt. Jerry. Stay safe. Thank you, councilman. Is that everybody? That's the council. The city clerk, so the public who may see this playback or watching it live, this person, you see their name on your wedding license, death certificate, and they run our office that has the most sensitive records in the city of Buffalo, Gerald A. Walensky. how many years has it been it'll be 37 and a half so i agree with council member fontana we don't know if we'll see you at next reorg or whether you'll be in florida permanently but thank you for these at least the first couple months of 2018 of being a clerk or however long you decide we are the reason we're saying that is because we had an attorney that was working for us A couple years ago, Allen, and Allen happened to go down, it was Revere, Council Member Revere who ended up getting rid of him, asked him, how much time you got? How much will you make in retirement? He went down to retirement, found out that he was making, losing money by staying working for the city. And I got a feeling that's... What everybody's concerned about with you next I think Modesto did that I think Modesto did that today after you told that Next item item six appoint deputy city clerk deputy city clerk councilmember Wingo I would like to nominate Tiana marks as the deputy clerk up bleep Tiana is a proof proven to be a very very valuable I said to City Hall into the city of Buffalo in that position to work very well with Jerry and the entire staff on the 13th floor not to believe that she is very deserving and not only just qualify for she was very deserving of such an appointment again alright second second by councilmember why and his thirds and fourths going all around the floor is there another nomination Hearing no other nomination, roll call please. Councilmember Farrell-Lytle. Councilmember Fontana. We hit the mark with Tiana. Councilmember Franzen. Tiana Marks. Councilmember Golombek. Tiana Marks. Council President Pridgen. Tiana Marks. Councilmember Rivera. Tiana Marks. Councilmember Scanlon. Tiana Marks. Councilmember Wingo. Tiana M. Marks. Councilmember White. Miss Marks. Dean Adams. We welcome as our Deputy City Clerk, Tiana Marks. I agree with you, Councilmember Wingo, who nominated you. Same thing I said about Councilmember Scanlon. She works hard in this department. The one thing that has impressed me the most is when her employees are going through tough times. She will leave that office and go to their houses or to the hospital. and I'll get a call. I'm at the hospital even if it's their mom, their father. If that family allows her to come, she goes and represents the city of Buffalo. And with the several deaths that we had in her department and other departments, families ended up calling her to help put together funerals of employees and that just goes a long way. I texted her recently about what, and I hate to, no I don't hate to mix it up, it is who I am, the call that is on her life. is tremendous and I think we're only seeing the beginning of a great career. Congratulations. Next item. Item 7, appoint deputy city clerk, vital statistics. councilman Fontana I'd like to place the nomination miss Millie Castro Millie has been in this position for a few years now she took over from a veteran and this type of position is highly specialized you really have to learn the field you have to be respected within the field and you deal with a lot of the birth records state issues hospital issues and Millie has learned the job she's done a fantastic job with the position and really brought us into 21st century second second by councilmember Revere Any other nominations? Hearing no other nominations, roll call please. Council Member Farrell out. Councilmember Fontana. Councilmember Castro. Councilmember Franzen. Councilmember Gallumbeck. Councilmember Rivera. Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember White. Councilmember Castro. Unanimous? Thank you very much. Unanimous vote for Senorita or Senora Castro. Let's thank her. I know she's out today. thank you very much on behalf of Millie cash right as councilmember Fontana mentioned she's been here I think after Jerry she's probably been here the longest time and she brings institutional knowledge to that office she works well with people if we require or request anything from there. And not only just Millie Castro, but the whole staff. I mean, it's a pleasure to work with our clerk's office, including all of the deputies and the clerk himself. So I'm very happy. As we vote for all these people, it's like this is great. People that have the knowledge, the institutional knowledge, are successful. are still here with us so thank you very much absolutely thank you sir that's item item eight appoint City Clerk staff motion to adopt second by Council member for your letter I am nine appointment representative to Bureau motion to adopt second by Council member Fontana item 10 appoint doesn't need to join school construction board motion to adapt saying by Council member Franzen I'm 11 appointments Council staff motion to adopt make sure important we need to put in a name for choice we'll come back to that item to which item we'll come back to it we're at number 11 appoint the staff motion was to adopt second by council member glombeck item 12 appoint staff to council members motion to adopt say my council or white on 13 regular committee appointments motion to receive and file second by council member Fontaine item 14 special committee appointments motion to receive and file second by council member Wingo item 15 appoint marriage officers motion to adopt second by president pro temp Scanlon motion to revisit item number 10 second by council member Golombet so the name on there was blank for joint schools construction board president pro temp did you talk to you're gonna stay all right so the name that is being placed there is Richard a Fontana who has served us well on that board actually yeah now you can they don't have any money anyway so I don't even know why it's still standing I woulda went go and check out their money let us know is there a second second by council member Golomba motion is to adopt second by councilman colombo 16 adjournment oh no we got to do swearing in so we'll do swearing in then do the adjournment if we can have all those who are to be swore in If you prefer with a Bible, we do have a Bible here. We'll just do it all together. Can you read them all together? We call off our... Is it the same swearing in? All right, let's all do it all together. If you have somebody who wants to come stand... Both of my grandmother, well, my grandmother, I believe, held it the last time she's gone on the view of the Lord. Actually, my wife's grandmother is here today. Okay. When I had my dad come down to hold the Bible for me, he didn't know either, so he wasn't dressed. It was a snowy day, and he still, so I know she's looking like, I can't believe he's asking me, but I'm going to ask her to come down, and, you know, I'm taking care of her granddaughter. I'll have her come down and hold the Bible for me. And, Al, maybe you can come down and join us. You can do it all together. All right. I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a little bit of a... I'm a for his success in the NFL. There you go. John L. Sparrow, that was the fourth time he's been in New York. That was basically this year. We need to help you offer your views. You're welcome. Thank you. I am the first to be in the following year That was the fourth institution of the United States, the second in New York, and that was KJU in Dixie County. The students of the office are sitting in front of the toilet. Thank you, Paul. . . I hear you. . column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column square column that i will next item and there is food for your staffs uh and yourselves 14th floor has arrived all right next item motion to adjourn first to adjourn second by councilman fontana thank you all thank you thank you sir