Montana. Present. Councilmember Franzen. Here. Councilmember Glumbeck. Here. Council President Pridgett. I have the key. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Warren. Present. We are pleased to have with us today two students from two of our schools. One who will help, both who will help lead the pledge. Denae Peart from Emerson High School and Isabella Minza from Narden Academy. Let's stand for the pledge. Thank you for your leadership, Mr. Speaker. the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under the As we remain standing, our chaplain, well, not our chaplain today, our chaplain is a little under the weather, but who has come, said they went right to the top of the mountain and got Bishop Reed. And I just learned today, I knew Bishop Reed was a young man, so I got permission, though, to make this, but he's 86 years old now, and he is a gem to our community. Bishop Reed. Our Lord, this day we acknowledge you as sovereign of the universe over our nation and expressly, Lord, over the city of Buffalo. In recognition of your lordship and sovereignty, we open this council meeting in prayer, and that prayer is the recognition of your lordship. Today we ask for your guidance in the affairs of this city. Every one of us in this room, expressly those who have been rightfully chosen to govern us, join in this prayer for guidance. Secondly, we ask for the peace of this city. May we work in unity with every branch of government, and thus may there be peace in your city. May there be peace in every street of the city. When we experience violence, we pray and invoke God's peace in every neighborhood. But last of all, we thank you for your blessing upon the city and upon its resources. We pray for a growing and increasing resources in this great city. Bless the mayor of the city. the President of this Council, and every member of this common Council. May the blessing of God be upon this city. May the government and the governing officials be blessed. May the resources and income of this city increase. And may everyone in this room be blessed with health and strength. We ask this in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. And everyone said, Amen. Amen. Thank you, Bishop. You are somewhat prophetic. Council members memorials councilmember, Golomba Thank You mr. President Some of you might have known Frank Denny Denny machinery that was over on hurdle Avenue near Elmwood Mr. Denny was a immigrant from Italy came here in the 1950s Started out with probably back to Nichols to rub together And was able to build a business and owned a bunch of properties in the Black Rock neighborhood in the Elmwood and Hurdle area and I'm sorry he had a long happy healthy life for the most part I'm sorry to see him pass in one regard especially because he believed in that corner of Elmwood and Hurdle and now as the developments are starting you know as as mr. Denny left us but he's going to be very very sorely missed by his family and friends and On a very personal note, Helena Bugnatsky, friends of mine, the Bugnatsky family, these were people that came to the United States after the Solidarity Movement as refugees, I believe. And that was back when we welcomed refugees in this country. And she and her husband and her family lived in the Black Rock area. And she was only 64 years old. And she got sick on Saturday morning and had passed away by the end of the day. But she's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends. Any others, Council Member? Council Member White and Council Member Scanlon. I think I did this before, but I just wanted to do it again. Pastor Pridgen, Bishop Pridgen, thank you for that wonderful sermon. I'm a homegrown for the individuals who perished on Shirley Avenue, Brianna Ross and Gishawn McGee and Sienna Jones. You know, for you to be able to deliver a eulogy that uplifts people in a tragic situation is just uncanny and just so appreciated. I talked to the mom a couple of days ago, and of course, as we all know, she's still going to go through her challenges, but we keep them in prayer during this tragic event. Thank you. Yeah. Councilman Scott? Thank you. I'd ask that we please keep in our thoughts and our prayers the family and the soul of Mr. Bob Shriney Sr. Mr. Striney's was a long time I believe spent his entire adult life in South Buffalo where he contributed a great deal he was also spent 30 years as a Democratic committee member in the South District and 40 years with the Teamsters Union as a truck driver He him and his wife had three children four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren So it has to be keep everyone in our thoughts Thank you any others? Councilman White has already acknowledged the babies who perished, unfortunately, but this city is really a city of good neighbors because the people who were there, council members, the people who showed up for that family, it's just unprecedented, the love that was shown toward those families in the loss of their loved ones. As we always do, we remember those, although we don't have one documented, we remember those who gave their life. for our country and other countries for the freedom and the rights since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. May be seated. Thank you. And I just, I do want to, I think it's important, I won't make the announcement, I wait for the mayor to make the announcement, but the fact that our mayor was here today to talk to us on some very good news for, for the city and for the taxpayers of our city, I think, today. As I said, Bishop Reed and his prophetic prayer. Thank you. All righty. Do we have a special? We have one special presentation from Council Member White. If we could have our hero come down, Mr. Michael Avery. Mr. Avery lives in my district, and on, I believe, December 19th, he was at the foot of Ferry. and a individual was in the river and he was drowning. Mr. Avery was there and had broke and everything saved the individual. And I just want to thank you that you were able to save him, pull him out. I hope that you were in the right place at the right time. I know that you don't see yourself as a hero, but you are truly a hero. Thank you so much to the above. I won't read the whole entire recognition, but just to only read the last thing. It says, stories like this depict a selfless act to find the true meaning of the city of good name. They serve as a reminder to all that one act of time can resonate for life to those in need. A family to keep you strong, keep you going. I've always been taught to help others. I'd like to say thank you. everybody got their shots all right great good job thank you sir because that's beyond just helping that's beyond just helping all right on the motion by mr revere second by miss scanlon the minutes of stated meeting on december 26 2018 are approved i'm not sure if we have any late files before us or not but i'll give i'll say it just in case somebody slips one in uh late files if we have them out before do we have any yes sir oh late files are before you have any objections to the late files Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda. It does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you have not had a chance to review the late files. With that said, from the top. item one love your block program motion to receive and file second by councilman wyatt item two preservation board moratorium request memorial triangle motion to send the legislation second by councilman franza item three funding agreement continuation motion to send the finance second by council member fear little item four 422 426 william motion to approve items four through six second by council member columbia item seven report sale 932 south park motion to send the cd Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item 8, appoint Deputy Comptroller. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Department of Public Works, Item 9, changing contract. Colonel Ward. Pumping station motion to approve items 9 through 14 say my customer's family item 15 has been withdrawn item 16 permission to hire consultant structural term for water facilities motion to approve item 1617 and 18 said my customer glum bet but in 19 2018 food store license renewals motion to send the legislation second by councilmember Wingo item 20 auction scrap furniture and fixtures motion to approve item Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 21, approved to enter into contract for delinquent parking citation collection. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 22, motorized scooter being donated to Veterans Affairs. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golumbik. Item 23, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 23 through 25. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 26, notice of appointment temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 27, acting time. Motion to receive and file items 27 and 28. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 29, SEQR Neg Deck 69 Fulton. Motion to adopt items 29 through 33. Second by Council Member Wingo. And that item number 28 was supposed to also be referred to the Commissioner. I want to make sure we make note of that. That item is referred to the permits and inspections? Permits and inspections. Yes, so that, so that permits and inspections can hear the concerns. Next item. Item 34, spectrum moving public access channels. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilman Wyatt, this letter was sent by Reverend William Gillison, the pastor of the Mount Olive Church, who has a show for the church that ministers to 6th and 7th, and he didn't even know that it had been changed. There's been no notification to the producers. He called me rather upset about this. at the end of the day I asked them to file a letter we'll get them in here to speak because it's not just the council that is complaining about the change of that channel today we were at the racial equity training or information session training and one of the things they talked about what we talked about was when you move these things you take the information out of the public's hand and how that affects communities and people who who may not be able to come down like Honorable Betty Jean Grant and all that in her car. Everybody doesn't have a car. Everybody can't get downtown or park. And that was our way of making this council transparent. And I still say it, Council Member, everybody's talked about it. It's unfair. We pay our cable bill. And the cable company, I think they're here now, but it's different. You know, that's the news. But, you know, record this and send it back. We don't like what your company did. And it's not right and it's not fair. And people, especially the voices of the public, nobody, nobody, I don't know even what channel we're on now. I don't sit there and put in 13, where are we on, 1301? Or three or something, or maybe we're switched already, because that's how we didn't get the information before. So we might be at 1504 by now. Who knows? But I think that this cable company that says that it was done at corporate offices somewhere else, when they get our corporate money, they, yeah, yeah. So, yeah. Thank you, Pastor Gillis. He'll be here soon to talk about it. All right. Council Member Fontana. Can we also send this to PSC so they see the letters? They refuse to meet with us in person. Or even on television. They won't even do teleconference with us. They said send them a letter. So we're going to send them a letter. This is another letter that we can send them. Absolutely. So we send that. All right. Thank you. next item item 35 concerns increase in parking meter fees motion to send finance second by council member wingo item 36 hud steps up monitoring of bma motion to send to mwbe and bmha second by council member wyatt and can we also send um 35 to the parking commissioner because i think i thought that's what we were sending but and i'll tell you why i want to make sure that during this process up to april that we have things funneling through one area because we don't write the parking ordinance. And I think it's very important. And in the last couple of days, our parking commissioner, I have to give it to him, is doing a bang-up job getting the information to the public, whether they agree or not. I've seen them on TV. I've heard them on the radio. I've heard them on the radio. And so he's explained it. But I do want to make sure that the people who want to be heard, that they're going through him so that we're not trying to we're not trying to author a policy that we don't author. We approve it or not approve it. But usually that policy is going to come from the commissioner. So I really, really, and he's here. He's broad-shouldered, thick-skinned. He's here, and he's committed to listen. So I want to make sure that the public knows that the council will not be writing a parking policy. It will come from the administration. in some ways, but he'll be doing the writing. So please, I don't think he's told one person he won't listen to him. At least it hasn't been reported to me that he has. So please, I'll give you his number, his name. We'll put it on the screen. We'll give you his address, his license plate. You can catch him at Topps, Wegmans, wherever you want to catch him. He'll talk to you about it. Thank you. Next item. Item 37, body-worn camera policy. A motion to send to police oversight. I'd like to speak on that, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, of course you can. Second by Council Member Fontana. Thank you very much. I have been, or my office has been in contact with Commissioner Lockwood's office regarding... This item, the body camera policy, people did want to come in prior to speak on this. However, it was in finance and we're dealing with contracts. This is an opportunity for them to explain the policy. Policies can always be amended and improved. This is a starting point, so we're giving the Commissioner a number of days that he can make himself available, him and his command staff, to come and speak on the policy. I think this Council almost unanimously supported. the body cameras we heard the concerns of the residents and we responded likewise and i'm sure at the very end this is going to be a better policy than perhaps that it is right now it'll be a policy that other cities might want to emulate so i'm looking forward to working with the administration on this yeah thank you very much thank you policy policy policy it is important Next item. Petitions, item 38, use 351 Tacoma. Motion to send the legislation items 38 and 39. And city planning board. And city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Committees, civil service item 1, a return from leave of absence. Motion to approve items number 1, 2, 3, 4. One and two. Excuse me. One and two? Yes, sir. All right. Second by Councilman Fontana. Item three, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Receiving file. Second by Councilman Fontana. Item four, appoint real estate specialist. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader. Finance Committee, Item 5, Buffalo City Swim Racers Contract. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item 6, Funding for Increased Speed Bumps. Refer to the Budget Committee. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Legislation Committee, Item 7, Food Store License 1340, Fillmore. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item 8, Used Car Dealer 1671, Genesee. If there are no objections, motion to approve Items 8 and 9. and 9. Second by Councilmember Revere. Item 10, Erie County Sanitary Code Proposed Revisions. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Revere. Resolutions. Item 40, BPD Staffing Changes. Motion to adopt the resolves. Remainder to CD. Second by Councilmember Franczak, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I should have gone to Councilmember Scanley. He was on. Oh, you filed. All right. Councilmember Franczak, you have the floor. He's faster on the draw. Okay. This item is a resolution co-sponsored by myself, Councilmember Scanlon, and Councilmember Fontana in regards to at least two issues. And now we see that the police union brings up another issue and what is the most arguably important service to the citizens of the City of Buffalo, which is public safety offered by the police department. And it has come to our attention. that the police detectives, at one time when Mr. Rivera was in the forest, there could be as many as 170 detectives, now it's north of 100, and all of these detectives evidently have been assigned to daylight hours only, daytime hour only. Now we know that crime does not take a hiatus during the evening hours, in fact, Statistics show that many of the crimes are committed in the evening hours, and there has to be an investigation that is still fresh and done as soon and aggressively as possible. So we want the police department to come before the Common Council and explain if this is a budgetary investigation. maneuver is that something to do with overtime if it's done for budgetary purposes There's better be a pretty good explanation because public safety is the paramount of what we do here You know cost is very important, but it's a secondary consideration when it comes to protecting the public the other side of it is is the 8th Precinct, which serves parts of the Fillmore, South, and Lovejoy districts. It's very important to that community. There's... Crime is not diminishing there. The fact of the matter is they've made a decision to remove one of the two police captains. As Mr. Scanlon pointed out to me in the workshop earlier this morning, is that that person isn't losing that position. That position, perhaps, you know, what is it with the detectives? Are they... Are they not filling vacancies? Is it people retiring? What is it? But these captains, the captain is not disappearing. The captain's going to be assigned somewhere else. Now, we want to have the police presence where the crimes occur, but to have decision made an administrative decision made without involving the council in the community where it comes to public safety the community is Well aware of this the community is conducting a public meeting tomorrow in the South District about this Because they are concerned and quite frankly alarmed. They're alarmed by that and And so there needs to be, minimally, we don't want to see this happen. We say we don't, this resolution says we don't want to lose that detective, I mean that captain at the A precinct. And what is the rationale for taking all the detectives away from those evening hours? Because, you know, we are policy makers. We don't run the police department. It's done by the police department and the administration. But there needs to be a... outreach to us and to the community and what and also there should be no cuts in service at the a district whatsoever and these detectives I don't know what the rationale is but it seems to be imprudent at the very least so this resolution co-sponsored by my colleagues and myself is asking for answers and asking for answers now thank you sir council member Scanlon Thank you, Council President. Just to follow up a little bit on what Council Member Franczak had to say. We just recently were made aware of this plan or this proposed plan this idea of making these couple of changes and I want to recognize the residents of the a district which incorporates all of South and portions of Lovejoy and Fillmore for acting so quickly when they found out they really mobilized to say listen We're we're part of this city we should be afforded to all the protections of the police department that every portion in this city is and And whether that be captains or the detectives working all shifts of the day or the captain spot in the A district, we deserve every bit of protection out of the police department that every other portion of the city has. To follow up on a couple of the points that the Council Member Franczak made. In my time on the council has been six and a half years and we have hired the city's hired a lot of police officers At that time so that's police officers with six and a half years or less of experience these supervisory roles are extremely important So to cut one half of the captain spots in the a district would be I think pretty irresponsible so I had a conversation with Commissioner Lockwood last Friday. I called him. We spoke at length about it, and I've reached out to others to try and urge them to reconsider this movement, not just the movement of the A District Captain, but the detectives as well. I want to thank the other members of the council who jumped on board on this right away, because obviously, even though the potential elimination of the A District Captain impacts just the southern portion of the city, the moving of the detectives to the straight daytime impacts this entire city. As Council Member Franczak did mention earlier. criminals don't work banker hours and So it makes it difficult for these detectives if they have to wait to the following day To take follow-up on any leads things can dry up over the evening And so I thank everyone for getting on board hopefully through the conversation We've had with Commissioner Lockwood and others this can be rectified Thank you, sir. Council Member Glumbeck and then Frenzel. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to have my name added to this as well. I've had some police officers that have contacted me. about this and the concerns I think are legitimate, as my colleagues mentioned, that criminals don't say, oh, I'm only going to work from 8 to 5 today. You know, we need detectives in the evening, and I'd like to know, you know, maybe there's a rational explanation as to why they're going to be working different shifts or whatnot, but I'd like to have those answered and I'd like to be able to go back to the residents in my district and explain it to them. and i want them to know as as michael as all my colleagues want as far residents to be safe from any type of uh criminal activity um that is taking place so if i could be added i'd appreciate it councilman franz thank you and as a corollary to this resolution we did not include it in this resolution because this was handed to us just before the council meeting is a letter from pba police benevolent association president john t evans And he mentions the, there were so many opioid deaths, victims recently. And what he states here is that the police department's administration has evidently cut four detective positions from the narcotics squad. so that's another question that we're going to ask you whatever answer they give hopefully it's not one that creates more concern and more alarm what we filed and plus this these concerns here so there's a lot of questions that will have to be addressed by the police and I think that what the the spirit of what is being said is we just need answers we don't know whether it it's It is a decision that we don't know something else that's being put in place. So I think that that's important to let the public know that what we're saying is we need to know the answers because we can't go back to constituents. And then if the answers are not adequate for this council, then there needs to be some discussion of how those changes are made. Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the contract, it stipulates how many detectives position, how many sergeants, captains, inspectors, And they're budgeted. So for there to be vacant for detectives position, that's something we should ask about because they're budgeted. We want to make sure if they're budgeted, that people are promoted, if there are vacancies, if there are requirements, that those positions, whether the captains, inspectors, lieutenants, that they fill those vacancies through the civil service exams or however they do that. In terms of the police department, how they allocate their manpower citywide, certainly they would have to have some information to come before this Common Council to explain away why there isn't a need for detectives to work evenings. If a crime is committed... in the evening and people are at work during the day, it's hard to link up with the victims or the complainants in those cases, and that's what normally happens. I worked as a detective many times. We would have to wait for people to come home from work at 5 o'clock because in certain areas, maybe South Buffalo, perhaps many people work, and you need to get in touch with the victims to properly investigate those cases that are solvable. So, I'm just taken back. I would like for them to explain these things to us. Unfortunately, we just find out about it. You know, PBA sends us a letter. We should know about these kinds of changes. They're proposing to make changes that impact the quality of life of people in our respective districts. They should at least have the courtesy. We have police oversight we work with them very closely. They can contact each individual council members and let them know. So I think there's a disconnect there between the police department and the Common Council itself. There needs to be more communication And I think that's something that we have to condition. They're not used to doing it, and it's something we have to ask for and remind them and remind them to the point where they'll call you automatically when they're going to make changes like this so we can sit down and talk about it. So I'd like to be joined to this resolution as well. They've tried doing this in the past when I was in the police department. I don't know what happened that it failed. But I certainly support detectives working evening hours because crimes are committed during evening hours, and we know that as a fact. Thank you very much. Absolutely. Is this going to, where is it going to? What committee? Or is it, did we send it anywhere? To the CD. To the CD. To the CD. So is it asking that someone speak Tuesday? Yeah, what we talked about this morning was typically we would send it to police oversight, but with the timeline, we wanted to send it to one of our regular committees to get someone in sooner. Okay, because when is the next time oversight? Well, we've sent the commissioner a number of days. at his convenience, hopefully in the near future, where he and his command staff come before us. So we're trying to work with his schedule. Hopefully, I'd like to do it yesterday and hopefully within the next month or so, but certainly we feel it's important to get together pretty soon to talk about these things. I mean, I think it is, and I do think it's important. But I'm not sure if that month, I don't think that that's, I think it needs to be by next Tuesday. Because crime isn't going to stop for four weeks. And, you know, I just buried an eight and a 20-year-old female. Prime is going to continue, so we at least get the answers and know. So I would hope it would be by next week. Councilman Scanlon? Thank you. Per their contract, any of those staffing changes or administrative changes that we're talking about, they have to give a 30-day notice, and that's already taken place because they're already talking about it. So I think if we wait until police oversight, that could be a problem, so I would actually do it on Tuesday. Yeah, I agree. It needs to happen Tuesday. All right. Any other discussion on that item? No. All right, next item. Item 41, Environmental Management Commission Appointments. Motion to adopt items 41 and 42. Motion to adopt 41 and 42. And on 42, and I know I was asked to hold up on this, on the approval. The problem with holding up on the approval is it would leave... THE FORMER REGULATION ORDINANCE ON THE TABLE AND OPEN FOR TOO LONG. I THINK WE MADE A COMMITMENT, THE COMMUNITY HAS RESPONDED SOMEWHAT POSITIVELY. OF COURSE, THERE ARE SOME CONCERNS, AND AGAIN, THE COMMISSIONER IS HERE, ABOUT THE APP AND ALL THOSE THINGS. THOSE ARE THINGS THAT I'M GOING TO ENCOURAGE. the commissioner in some type of way to have maybe a work session. Because I think that just having people come to talk to us is not, I don't think we're going to get to where we want to get to in April. Because what will happen is, we'll have people come to talk to us, he'll have people come and talk to him, and there's people on both sides of this issue. There were some who were saying, you know, one thing, another saying, and I think somewhere, during this somewhere, but I think it should be a work session where people come in like we did with the green code. And you work through and you hear in some type of way. I don't know what that looks like. I don't know if it's ever been done. But I think that that would be more effective than every other Tuesday till April. talking about it on the floor without any type of progress to say what, what, because some people even had other suggestions that probably could even help more. But I just, I can encourage it and we'll go from there. If not, you know, I think we run the risk of every week hearing it in the council and not getting to a point of conversation planning that includes people. And I know, Commissioner, to your credit, you've been meeting with different groups. Matter of fact, and if you don't mind, you probably put up fingers or something. I won't bring you all the way down. How many groups have you met with so far without putting you on the spot? And for the record, it's Commissioner Kevin Alford. And I didn't ask your permission from the beginning, so I don't want you to feel blindsided if you don't feel comfortable right now. i'm okay with that i think this is where you have to move over you had the mic council president thank you um i tried to respond to almost everybody who has either called or emailed as you know it's it's almost impossible to do that immediately um you know my current schedule and the other obligations i have but everybody will get an answer within 48 to 72 hours obviously we consistently over the last two years met with the access infrastructure tax force at buffalo place and I've been reaching out to small groups, whether they're restaurant owners, business owners, or what have you, to not only explain what we are doing with the parking changes, but to really explain a lot of the options that are very beneficial to their businesses that they may or may not know about. Whether it's the Buffalo Roam, whether it's the night monthly parking pass at ramps, that are very beneficial. and we've already made changes as you just alluded to uh as i said from the very beginning i think it's been very clear parking is always fluid it's never going to it should never be stagnant it has to change it has to change as the community changes as businesses changes as parking um You know, streets, roads, everything changes. Parking has to be fluid. One of the suggestions that somebody came up with is one of the rules that we established a year and a half ago with Buffalo Rome was anybody using that as a minimum transaction of $1. And that was based on an hour rate. Somebody said to us, you know, a lot of people stop in the morning, pick up a newspaper, pick up a cup of coffee, lottery ticket or whatever, they're stopping in for 10 or 15 minutes, and you have smaller increment rates. We are making those changes. Good suggestions. So those are the meetings that I'm having. They're not only meant for me to educate on a lot of options, but to hear back a lot of community input and suggestions to make parking better for everybody in downtown. So without getting to, and I thank you for that, for even saying that there's some other changes coming forward because of the pandemic. what you've heard from people. So should people call your office? I would love if people would email me. It would be the best way to keep track of so nobody says, I called, you didn't respond. You know, I hate when that happens. But an email has an electronic, you know, who emails. So my email is out there for everybody, khelfer at city-buffalo.com. Between myself and my staff, we'll get a timely answer back to everybody and try to address their concern. All right. Council Members? Yes. So thank you. Council Member Glombeck? Thank you, Mr. President. One of the main concerns that I have is dealing with the smartphone app. I've had a lot of residents that have contacted me that live in my district and in the city of Buffalo, and I understand that we're in sort of a dilemma between the amount of money that we're going to pay for machines and... what not, but I think that the Buffalo News did an article that said 23% of residents near E. County are not on the internet. Well, I'll guarantee you that that 23% number is not in East Amherst. If you come into the district that I represent, I'll bet you it's closer to 50% of the residents. If you go into the Riverside Library, the one thing that is constantly in use are the computers on a regular basis. Very rare that I've gone in there that there's not all of the computers being filled. So I think that that is something that we have to look at long term to be able to help residents to be able to use that. I don't want it to be only for people that have smartphones. I have a smartphone, but I'm not a smart guy. I don't know how to use it. You just got your smartphone, matter of fact. So I mean, I'm not in that 23%, but I should be, because I wouldn't be able to figure out how to use an app like that. But I do hope that that's something that we become more customer friendly, ultimately. But I understand the dilemma that we're facing, but I think that that does need to be something long-term that needs to be addressed. If I could? Absolutely. First of all, good question. Once again, if anybody's having trouble with that app, they should email me, and my senior assistant, Davis, will help get back to him immediately because that's his project that he oversees. What we are finding is the app has very, very few mistakes. We have 35,000 people that have downloaded that app. And a lot of the times the mistakes might be very simple mistakes that are easily rectifiable, and by calling us we can figure it out because we see everything they see. In our offices, on our computers is our back end. We have the back end. Everything with Buffalo Roam is virtually in time. A lot of times people will say, I got a ticket. And then when we look at it, we'll see that, let's say their plate was ABC123. They might have entered their plate as ABD. Very correctable. We know that they made a mistake. We administratively clear that type of ticket. So you have some inputting mistakes that go on as well. But all in all, that app has been really a very good app that if there's mistakes made, it's usually not the app's problem. It could be mine, it could be the user, but the app has been very good. To your point about everybody having the app, the only place that we, for all intents and purposes, do app-only payment is when we started the event parking around E-Bank Center. Approximately the other night we had 153 transactions on the app. That's the only place where we say pay-by-sell only. And those are spaces where there were no spots before. One of the things, once again, going to your point, we heard that, and we know that everybody doesn't have one, we're going to start putting some kiosks up. People can come down, and if they don't have that app, they go to the kiosk, get their paid display back, and put it on their dashboard. So we're addressing everything in real time ourselves. As issues come up, when we have solutions, we're implementing them right at the top. That's great. Council Member Perletta was next. You all said, oh, I think you answered his question. Council Member Wingo? Thank you, Mr. President. I appreciate Mr. Helfer, Commissioner Helfer coming down and speaking on this issue. Just last week, we were in a meeting with the developer of the app. And I have to say that they were very responsive to all of the concerns that my constituents expressed to me in that meeting, as well as some of the issues that I was taking immediately on my cell phone as they were texting me. Certainly, I know that there are some folks in my community who are more vocal than others. So as we were sitting there texting, they informed me of some of their concerns, and we immediately addressed those concerns. I was able to text the individual back real time. in that meeting, your concern has immediately been addressed with the new rollout of the revised app. And also the app, even though a lot of us may not be techno-savvy, the app is very intuitive. Once you open up the app, it's very self-explanatory. The map for the app is really easy to follow. I'm encouraging folks to use it because if you use the app, you can see how instrumental it is with the rollout of this entire parking plan. Now, I'm not a proponent of Many of the things that have been rolled out, that is my one personal opinion, but as it relates to us addressing the issues that are being expressed to us by our constituency, i do have to say that commissioner helfer has been very responsive and that the developers are very willing to change and modify and revise this app so that the city of buffalo residents uh can take part in this as wave and especially as it relates to uh our population who does not use technology the the the uh the planting of these the terminals and machines what do you call those The kiosks, is that what they are? The play display machines. The play display machines with the implementation of those things in different areas so that everyone has the ability to park in these new creative spaces. So with that being said, I just want to encourage everyone to download the app, try to use the app, see if you can get acclimated with the features of the app so that you can take advantage of what the administration has put forward. Well, I'll tell you, I got the app kicking and screaming because I didn't want to get the app. I just wanted to keep putting quarters in, but we went to dinner the other day, and I didn't have any quarters. So I had to download the app, and it was easy. I think that when we just left the session, we talked about policy, policy, policy, and how it's about the policy that affects, you know, especially when we look at the disadvantaged and disadvantaged. You made it, I'm really, really glad to hear that you're looking at the incremental. I didn't think about that. Obviously, that came from the public. It did. And that makes all the sense in the world. If I'm going to buy $1.50 cup of coffee, I don't want to pay $2 to park to buy $1.50 cup of coffee. So I think the public and your transparency is a breath of fresh air to hear you, to see you here. So I'm going to send everybody to you. including the wonderful person who's sitting next to you, make sure that you get in touch with her, because she has constituencies who are concerned, and I think that people should be pleased to see that they have a city government, that they have an administration, because that works together. And here's the people. I think this is important. It is government at its best to me, so I don't run away from it. I think it's government at its best. I appreciate that. I don't either, Council President. I know you don't. So before we give Mike DeGeorge a heart attack up there, no, just kidding. He didn't paste about 50 times. Have anybody else, Council President, press like you're waiting? Okay. You're up, Paul. I'm sorry. First, I want to say that I think Mr. Helfer did an excellent job on WBEN on Sunday. I listened to almost the entire two hours, and the mayor came out at some point. But he tackled it. He grabbed the bull by the horns. He answered all the questions. He was very knowledgeable. He did a very good job. So I think that the fact that when you get out in front of an issue like this, then I think it makes it – easier for the public to understand why the city's doing it he also said that the rollout perhaps could have been done in a way by getting out in front of and taking the bull by the horns you know perhaps that could have been done but I think that by everybody but I think this resolution is the correct prescription to ameliorate some of these serious concerns and problems so mr. Pridgen's resolution I think is just what should have been done. So you, you know, engage in battle and see what happens and then you, for the interest of the city, and then you start making adjustments as necessary. One of the things that is in here, which is a very big concern for people from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., back to that, except during special events, which mentions Thayer District, Key Bank Center, Salen Field, Canal Side, If you do it through the app until 10 p.m., it's not like a two-hour limit. Is that right, Kevin? It's not a two-hour limit. For instance, if somebody wanted to come down for a special event... They could purchase their parking in a multitude of ways. Let's say they were coming down and they thought they were just going to dinner at that new LeBats place at a hockey game. So they might purchase two hours. They're going to get a courtesy text 15 minutes beforehand saying your parking session is about to expire. Would you like to increase your time? So I'm using a hypothetical. Somebody walked up to them and said, hey, I got tickets to the game. Would you like to join? So then they would add three more hours on, for instance, or four more hours right on the app. And as I've mentioned a multitude of times, with the implementation of the app and how user-friendly it is and how it tells people that their parking session is about to expire, tickets at the meters are substantially down. Now, let's say they go to see, like I think this was brought up in caucus, they go to Shays and they see a play, they see a Hamilton, they see some play, they're in there for three hours. Do they have to run out in two hours to the kiosk? No, never. Never. They never do. Look, I'm not saying the app is to be all and all for everything because I know that. So let me ask you this. Is that never only for the app? Yeah. Yes. Or also for the app. See, now that's the... So what if you have a seat like Joe's smartphone person, but they're not that smart, which I'm not that smart either as far as that goes, or some senior or whatever, they're in the theater, and they have to get up after two hours to go outside in the winter? No, it depends. What will happen is I want to know what – explain to me which mode of payment are you asking them? Let's say they don't have the app. Okay, so they went to a paid display machine. Let's say they purchased two hours. Correct. They see they're going over their time. Yes, they would have to get up. That's all the more reason that you want to purchase the app. If you purchased three hours and you needed another hour, you would have to get up and go. That's why the app makes things so much easier. I mean, there's no other way of doing it. They put in the prescribed amount of time at a paid display machine. If it's not enough, they have to go back to that paid display machine. Is that paid display machine, that's not frozen like a piece of iron? I mean, can't that be recalibrated? No, we can calibrate it any way you want, but still, if somebody's running out Pay display machine works this way. Let's say they purchased two hours ago to Hamilton. So they paid $4. They put their little sticker on their dash, correct? So now they go into the movie or their play. They come back. They see that their time is about to expire. They literally got to go out, put another X amount of dollars in the machine for however long they want to park, and put another receipt on their dash. That's why we keep pushing people towards the app. It's so much more user-friendly. There's no other way of doing it, Councilmember, because it's a transaction where your receipt that proves that you paid has to be put on your dad. Well, I don't know. I just think until everybody has the aptitude. But if somebody thinks they're only going to be there for an hour and purchases an hour, and then subsequently they have to be there longer, there's no other way to do it other than the app. They have to go back to the machine. They can purchase five hours of parking if they like. Right. But if they only purchased one and they need to extend it, they absolutely would have to go back to the paying display. But you could make it so they could stay longer by calibrating it. I could make it. Right now it's unlimited. If they want to purchase ten hours and pay $20, they could, but they've got to do that. If they pay for a display for three hours, they'd pay the same thing through the app, wouldn't they? Correct. So what difference does it make? it makes no difference but i think you're asking me do they have to get out of their seat they go and feed the meter if they only purchase two hours there's no other way to do it purchase let's say they could purchase three or four they can purchase three they can't purchase four they gotta run outside no they do not they don't they can do that at the point of their transaction what i'm saying is if they only purchase two and then they found themselves needing more time well i get you there so that at the pay display they can pay unlimited correct okay And there's no more old fashioned meters around there? We have very few old fashioned meters around there. As a matter of fact, we will be moving certain meters around, especially into the event district, so that there's always a pay in display or a Buffalo room option. Now, when people, let's say, I just want to give you a more specific thing near Canalside. that some of the people at marine drive are saying that well then there's dedicated parking for marine drive whenever i go there i always go in that parking lot there always seems to be a space there you know there's or the street uh that hooks around the whole facility yeah there's a pretty big parking lot there and a big there's a pretty big portion for public space so what are they uh some people saying that oh they're going to come now visitors are going to come so they're not really talking about residents they're saying visitors are going to come and now they're going We're going to have to pay, and it's inconvenient. But as a visitor when I was there, I almost never had not being able to go into that lot. To the best of my ability, any visitor of a Marine Drive tenant will go into that lot, notify security that they are there. We never ticket in that lot unless security asks us. That's private property. Well, right. I mean, that lot has got a marked-off section that says visitors, right? Right. Like I said, I don't – I think you might be talking about visitors to the Liberty Hound. I think BMHA did something like that. MR. It's right across from the Naval Park. That's where I want to go. Correct. does have visitor parking. I think they have an agreement. It's certainly not a city agreement. It's an agreement between the housing authority and the private operator that will allow some visitor parking. What I was talking about is a resident who's there, visitors can come and visit them, and I understand the policy is they get a visitor pass to offer security. I'm not sure I know what the issue is there. If there's adequate parking that isn't cost prohibitive I don't think there's an issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Next speaker, I think you answered what a lot of us were confused about. So if I go to Hamilton and I go to the kiosk, I can buy three hours. You can? At the kiosk. Correct. And I think that was the main question that people were a little confused about. Can I only get two? You just cleared it up. You can buy three hours. You know you're going to Hamilton. Call Shays, ask them how long the play is, put in that amount of money. And one of the reasons I was willing to keep that part is because of the increase in our first responder services. For a lot of people who are coming from out of Buffalo, But the taxpayers are still paying for that increase in security, fire, all of those first responders. So I didn't see, you know, I could see where we all need to share in that portion of the pain. Absolutely. Council Member Fontana. I just realized the last time there was discussion between Mr. Helfer and Mr. Franczak in the chambers during a council meeting was 1999. Wow. Wow, was the mayor here then too? Yes. Well, and look, both of them are here today. Yeah, pretty interesting stuff, so that's pretty cool. And I always looked up to their conversations because as a new council member, they knew what they were doing at the time, and they still do. When it comes down to the issue, Kevin, of signage, Yes, sir. When it comes down to signage, today's ordinance resolution, essentially, we're looking to make some changes. How will that be reflected in the signage? Are signs up right now? They're going to be changed as a result of what we're doing today? Yes. At the Key Bag Center, the signage that is up will most likely, and I don't want to speak out of turn because Mike Finn is the partner in this, as you know, Public Works handles the signage. We're more on the enforcement side, but we work very closely together. those two sides that currently say uh metered parking 4 p.m to 10 p.m will probably be changed to event parking 5 p.m to 10 p.m okay now residents are asking and you mentioned watch the signs is your staff going to go out every time or public works go every time there's an event put up signs that say there's an event well that those signs yes we are that's mike and i are working through that i think key bank center is what was logically the best place to start because i think most people know what an event's going on with 18,000 people are going down. It's kind of self-explanatory. But Mike and I are working on the best system, whether it's signage that will be on a hinge that we pull down, say an event rate's now in effect, or whether it's variable message boards or LED signs. We're going to come up with a solution that's best to communicate that to the public. And over by the theater districts, I mean, it might be obvious that there's a – a ball game or something, a hockey game, but what about... That's very different. We've got to be very clear. And I will communicate with your honorable body. I think that we talked about the first phase being around Key Bank Center. When we get to the next phase, this is going to go over phases. There's no way in the world that between technology, our pain display equipments, the changing of signs, the making of new signs, we can implement this overnight. It's going to be staged. I will keep you abreast of the staging. I heard from colleagues of mine in real estate that people were given tickets this weekend. If they were given tickets, are those tickets valid? Should they turn the tickets in? I heard you on the news mentioning that people got tickets, send them in to you, they'll look at them. So what happens about tickets that were written this weekend around the year? the arena? I don't think anywhere. Well, that's what they're telling me. They said that so many tickets. I would love to see one. I would love to see one. I was very, very consistent with saying that if you are blocking a fire hydrant, you will get a ticket. If you are blocking a handicapped walkway, you will get a ticket. If you're blocking a driveway... But, as I said from the beginning, we're always going to have an educational period where we were putting notifications on cars, reminders, we were giving them a card, how to download the app as well. Okay, so you don't think tickets were written? If they were written in that area, I certainly, once again, everybody's got my email. I'll find out. Send it to me. Send me the ticket. I'll ask more questions. We'd appreciate that. Thank you very much. So, I think we've finished with this. I think. Thank you. Thank you. All good? Oh, okay. So, yeah, I'm sure. Today we had this class, so I want to be true to what I just learned and what I just said in a class. So I think, I'm glad to hear you talk about putting more kias out. Me too. And the reason is, when you look at this thing, and you're in agreement, so I'm just kind of crafting it from this whole thing on racial equity today. So there are some people who have smartphones, but they don't have data plans. And most of those people will be from a less economically advantaged household. So if I then come to that event and I then have to pay for my data plan because I'm paying by the minute, to use the app and pay for the app. So I encourage you, as fast as they can get those machines to the city of Buffalo, that that occurs. Because until then, my dad cannot go to a hockey game. No, I understand. Because he has a flip phone. And as I said, in the spirit of cooperation, we've been complying with the resolution after going forward that was worked together with the administration and your honorable body. Before we started doing anything, I just wanted to make sure that, you know, I didn't want to change signs for the third time. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, that wouldn't be the best thing. All right, council members, thank you again for coming down and you owning that and explaining that so that we can move forward. Keep the rest assured. I'll keep you informed. Thank you. All righty. I'm sure the press is going to start clicking up now because I think it's time for another press conference somewhere. All right. Next slide. Item 43, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 168, Environmental Review. Motion to send legislation, items 43 and 44. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 45, Increased Buffalo Police Patrols at Schools. Motion to attend to the Education Committee, items 45 through 48. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 49, Commissioner Deeds. Motion to adopt items 49 and 50. Second by Councilman White. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Wednesday, January 15th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on legislation, Wednesday, January 15th, 1 p.m. Committee on community development, Wednesday, January 15th, 2 p.m. Special committee, committee on education, Wednesday, January 15th, 12 p.m. Council Member, is there any announcements for your districts? Council Member White. I just want to announce for the community that our Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Task Force meeting will be taking place Thursday, January 17th at 11 a.m., room 1417. So we encourage businesses and women-owned businesses to come and participate. Thank you. Council Member White, is that committee looking any way at how we may get more businesses involved in this resurgence? especially construction? Well, one of the things that we're focusing on right now is the new system that we put in place that's going to start tracking the investment. So we've done some getting more groups involved, but we're utilizing the individuals at the Beverly Grace Center to really kind of highlight those things to get people more involved and engaged. Thank you, sir. Any other announcements? Hearing no announcements. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilman Fontana. We are adjourned. Thank you.