Okay, we are live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Common Council Reorganizational Meeting, Monday, January 3, 2022. Council Member Bowman? Present. Council Member Farrelletto? Here. Council Member Glumbach? Here. Council Member Nowakowski? Here. Council Member Pridgen? Here. Council Member Rivera? Present. Council Member Scanlon? Present. Thank you.
 Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Item number one, appoint council president. Okay, so this is my first time chairing this reorg meeting. I believe we need one of the council members to make a motion. Councilmember Bohlman? Yes, I'd like to make a motion to nominate Darius Pridgen as council president. Councilmember Wyatt, a second.
 Okay, motion made by Councilmember Bowman, seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Motion to close the nomination. Motion to close the nomination, seconded by Councilmember Golombak. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Pridgen. Councilmember Nowakowski? Darius Pridgen. Councilmember Pridgen? Darius Pridgen. Councilmember Rivera? Darius Pridgen.
 Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? AGP Pridgen. Passed. Item number 2, rules of order for 2022-2023. I'm sorry, now I'm back. Thank you, Council Member . I want to make a motion to adopt. Council Member Rivera moves to adopt. Council Member Ferraletto seconds. Item 3, appoint majority leader.
 Is there a motion on the floor? Council Member Wingo? Motion to nominate David A. Rivera for majority leader. Is there a second? Second. Second. Is second by Council Member Wyatt. Is there a motion to close? Motion to close the nomination. Motion to close. Second. Council Member Buhlmann? Rivera. Council Member Farrelletto? Rivera. Council Member Golombak? Rivera.
 Councilmember Nowakowski. David A. Rivera. Council President Pridgen. Councilmember Rivera. David Rivera. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. David A. Rivera. Councilmember Wyatt. David A. Rivera. Item number 4, appoint President Pro Tem. Move it off to chair. It looks like Council President Pridgen is having technical issues. If we could just hold off temporarily just until he returns.
 All right, I apologize. It just wiped me right out. Where do we stop, Brevere? You would have to submit your vote. Council Member Revere? The motion is to adapt. We completed the voting. Yes, sir. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item four, appoint President Protem. Is there a motion? Council Member Nowakowski? No.
 I would like to place the name of Christopher Scanlon in for nomination. Second. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Is there a motion to close? Motion to close. First by, moved by Councilmember Golombak, second by the Majority Leader. Councilmember Bowman. Chris Scanlon. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto. Chris Scanlon. Councilmember Golombak. Scanlon. Councilmember Nowakowski. Chris Scanlon. Council President Pridgen. Chris Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman.
 Majority Leader Rivera. Chris Scanlon. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Christopher P. Scanlon. Council Member Wyatt. No. All right. Motion to adopt. Second. Motion to adopt. Second by Mitch Nowakowski. Item 5, appoint city clerk. If we can pause, if we have the judge on because the clerks won't be being sworn in today.
 So if you want to bring the judge on, she will do all of ours together for the president, for the majority leader, and for President Pro Temp. Judge Calvo Torres. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon. So Happy New Year to everyone.
 and allow me a personal point of privilege to take this opportunity to thank each and every one of you for your dedication and commitment to service to our great city. It's a city that I'm very proud to call my home.
 and a city in which I've had the opportunity to raise a family and in which I've had the opportunity to serve. And I know that it's not easy to do what it is you do. So I thank you, each and every one of you, for your service, especially during such trying times in our nation and our community. So at this point, I...
 If it's okay with you, Council President to swear you in first. And then I'll go ahead and swear and everyone else. Would that be okay. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. If you would raise your right hand please. I state your name, various Bridget.
 do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of Office of President
 of office of president of the Common Council of the City of Buffalo. The Common Council of the City of Buffalo. To the best of my abilities. To the best of my abilities. So help me God. So help me God. Congratulations, President. Thank you, Judge. Now, if I could have everyone else, please raise your right hand.
 I'm going to swear everyone in at once, if that's okay. It would just be the president pro temp and the majority leader. Okay. So Council Member Rivera and Council Member Scanlon, if you could please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I. I. State your name. David A. Rivera. Council Member Scanlon. Christopher Scanlon. Thank you. Do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear.
 That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of New York. And the Constitution of the State of New York. And that I will faithfully discharge my duties. And that I will faithfully discharge my duties. And David Rivera as Majority Leader. As Majority Leader. And Chris Gallen as President Pro Temp. As President Pro Temp.
 To the best of my abilities. To the best of my abilities. So help me God. So help me God. So help me God. Congratulations. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you all enjoy the rest of your afternoon. Thank you, Judge, and to all of my colleagues I'd like to just take a moment to thank you for the vote of confidence will continue to work hard for all districts to ensure that what you need in your districts and as we work together to continue to move forward.
 I appreciate and I do not take your vote lightly. This is a heavy responsibility, but we have been able to accomplish so much in these few years and now moving forward and looking at redistricting and working together so that our districts are balanced and we are serving the people of the city of Buffalo during some of the toughest years that probably I.
 that I know that I've seen being an elected official, as we see so many people continue to suffer through this pandemic, both in health, mentally, financially, we have a big load to lift in front of us. And we're hearing the people, what the people need, and we'll continue to work together. Thank you. Alrighty, if we wanna move on.
 Item number five appoint city clerk. All right. Can I have the full screen back? All right. Is there a nomination? Nomination for Tiana Marks. Council member Wyatt is second. I'm going to ask for a pen. Is second by- Second. ... Revier. Nomination for Pam McGeor. All right. Nomination for Pam McGeor. Is there a second? Second.
 All right. So those two names are in front of us. Is there a motion to close the nominations? Motion to close the nomination. Second by Council Member Mitch Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman. Marks. Council Member Farrelletto. Tiana Marks. Council Member Glombeck. Marks. Council Member Nowakowski. Tiana Marks. Council President Pridgen. Tiana Marks. Majority Leader Rivera. Tiana Marks. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Marks.
 Council Member Wingo. You're still muted. Pam, Pam, Pamela McGeor. Council Member Wyatt. Tiana Marks. Majority Leader makes motion to adopt, second by Council Member Bowman. Item six, appoint Deputy City Clerk. Council Member Revere. Motion to appoint Millie Castro. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Motion to close the nomination. Second by Council Member Golumbik.
 Councilmember Bowman. Milley Castro. Councilmember Farrelletto. Milley Castro. Councilmember Golombak. Castro. Councilmember Nowakowski. Milley Castro. Council President Pridgen. Milley Castro. Councilmember Rivera. Milley Castro. Councilmember Scanlon. Castro. Councilmember Wingo. Milley Castro. Councilmember Wyatt. Milley Castro. I just want a pause for clarification because
 Millie's name was added into number six, and I think she filled the vacancy of number seven. Is that correct? I see the present pro temp said. So I want to clarify that actually we voted on six. I think we need to go back and do this one correctly. And so the winning side, which would be all of us, we can move to number...
 to strike the last vote and put the correct name for the record. Move to strike. Move to strike because of just an error in the name of where it was put in, second by Council Member Rivera. Can you read that item again? And then we're going to renominate. Item number six, appoint deputy city clerk. Is there a motion?
 let's get the right name here motion millie castro no that that would she would be in seven pam major the motion is for pam jory second by council member fair little council member ballman majority council member farrellata majority council member gone back majority council member nalkowski majority council president pritchard
 Majority. Majority Leader Rivera. Majority. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Majority. Council Member Wingo. Majority. Council Member Wyatt. Majority. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Scanlon, President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 7, appoint Deputy City Clerk of Vital Statistics. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Milly Castro, seconded. Second by.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Motion to close the nomination. Motion to close the nomination. Second by Councilmember Golombak. Councilmember Bowman. Castro. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto. Castro. Councilmember Golombak. Castro. Councilmember Nowakowski. Millie Castro. Council President Prichard. Millie Castro. Councilmember Rivera. Millie Castro. Councilmember Scanlon. Castro. Councilmember Wingo. Millie Castro.
 Councilmember Wyatt. Emily Castro. Right. That has been adopted by Councilmember Majority Leader Revere and second by Councilmember Glomit. Item 8, appoint City Clerk Staff. Motion to adopt. I'm sorry. Motion to adopt, second by Councilmember Glomit. Item 9, appoint Council Representatives to Bureau. The motion is to adopt. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item 10, appointments, common council, legislated staff. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item 11, appointments, offices of common council members. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 12, regular committee appointments. Motion to receive and file. Items 12 and 13. Items 12 and 13, special committee appointments. Second by President Pro Tem Scannell.
 item 14 appoint marriage officers motion is to adopt second by council member fear leto no other items before us congratulations to everybody councilman reverie chairman let me uh thank you for your leadership uh council president pro temp chris scaling and all of the other eight council members that um voted for our leadership
 As you said before, we have gone through some difficult times, but there's some good things ahead of us. This is a good time to be in government, to make a difference in people's lives. And I think as we move forward through this pandemic, through the American Rescue Plan and through hopefully the settlement with the Seneca Nation, as that was mentioned,
 and the infrastructure dollars that we're getting in state aid and the additional county aid. I think it's a good time. So we recommit ourselves to work together to work with the administration. Our goal is to move things forward, to be part of the progress that we're going to experience. So I just want to thank all of the colleagues, especially to those that have worked with us, and we recommit ourselves to work together
 for each and every single district in the city of Buffalo. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. All right. Any other business before us? If not, motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Rashid N.C. White. We adjourn. Thank you.