Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombak. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Aki. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge.
 the God indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, council president. Before I introduce our honored guest for invocation today, I do want to remember a friend of many of us on the council,
 and I know others will give a memoriam in him a bit later, but Bishop William Henderson was laid to rest yesterday, a guardian of our sacred past and an incredible force to be reckoned with in the Underground Railroad preservation of this city's history as a freedom portal. It was amazing to me, as the mayor commented yesterday at his funeral, that
 He was laid to rest on Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day. How fitting in all kinds of ways.
 It is a special day for me as we're joined by Bishop-Designate Matthew Brown from Mary Etta, Georgia. Many of you may know that when Pastor Brown was among us, he pastored Pentecostal Temple Church of God in Christ on Jefferson Avenue, served Mayor Massiello in the role of Director of Communications, and then the Lord led him south.
 as sometimes Deb and I hope he will lead us.
 And in Marietta, Georgia, he pastors a wonderful church, Greater Community Church of God in Christ that Deb and I have had the wonderful opportunity to speak at many times since he's been there. He still has family here, including his brother, Bishop Dwight Brown, who also pastors on Jefferson Avenue. And of course, I think Bishop Dessignat's greatest accolade is that he was chairman of the board of Set Free, our group, in his storied past.
 So without further ado, I welcome to pray and bless us today, Bishop-designate Matthew Brown from Marietta, Georgia. Thank you, Dr. Warner, and again to our Council President, Dr.
 Council President Pridgen, to the Majority Leader David Rivera, and to all of the distinguished Council members, we greet you from Marietta, Georgia. I am 716 for life. And so we're delighted as we have an opportunity to share. There is a verse of scripture I'd like to share with you from the Psalm, Psalm 91 and 2, and it simply says, I will say to the Lord, you are the strong place where I will be safe.
 You are my God, and I will trust in you. As we reflect about Dr. King's life, I thought about a quote from Dr. King in his letter from the Birmingham jail. He said, in a real sense, all life is interrelated.
 All men are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. And whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly. And I can never be what I ought to be until you are what you ought to be. And you can never be what you ought to be until I am what I ought to be.
 This is the interrelated structure of reality. So in that context, let us pray. Father, we pray now that you give to our beloved leaders and our beloved city the civility and the grace to treat one another with compassion. We ask that you give us clarity, the grace for emotional and social intelligence to hear the needs of our beloved community of Buffalo, New York.
 We ask for wisdom, that we apply our best selves to our most difficult challenges. And we ask for unity, that you will give to us transformational grace, which makes us whole, not fragmented, but whole, whole in our mind, body, and soul. And then lastly, Lord, we say, go Bills. Amen.
 Thank you, Bishop Designy. You ended the right way, and we hope that that prayer goes from your mouth to God's ears. And it is just so good to see you, and I know many of the people who are watching remember your work here and the great work that you are doing in Georgia today.
 for your community during this pandemic and that you have grown to be a giant in God's church. Thank you so much for being with us. Thank you. God bless you. God bless you. Council members, any memorials? Council member Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. And it again is good to hear your voice, Bishop Brown. You and your brother have very distinct voices in the city of Buffalo. And it's just so good to hear your voice again here on this platform. And thank you for praying for the success of our beloved franchise here in the city of Buffalo, the Buffalo Bills. Quickly, I would like to ask the city of Buffalo
 to continue praying for the Ford Dubois family and the loss of Lurie L. Dubois. Mother Dubois, I call her Granny Dubois because the family was so tight that anyone who was within their proximity, you felt like you were family. But I've had the pleasure of knowing this family for over 35 years.
 And Granny Dubois was such an instrumental person at the Jordan Grove Baptist Church, where her husband, the Glen H. Dubois, pastored before he passed away.
 a little over a decade ago. But Mother Dubois will be sorely missed. We ask that the city of Buffalo continue to keep their two daughters in prayer, Wanda and Val, affectionately known as Aunt Wanda and Aunt Val because everyone is so close. And then of course, Pastor George Dubois, please keep that family living in prayer as well as the Cox family and the Ford family. Also our chaplain, Dr. Warner,
 did bring up the fact that we did have the home-going celebration of Bishop William Henderson yesterday. It was such a grand moment, even though there was only a handful of us there due to the COVID pandemic. I am positive, had this had been this time last year,
 Elam Christian Fellowship would not have been able to hold that home-going celebration because he was that big of a person in that frame. My father used to say, you can put a, Pastor Brown will appreciate this. My father would say, you can put a little preacher in a big suit and he'll shrink it.
 But you can put a little preacher in a big suit, a big preacher in a little suit, and he'll expand it. And I just thank God that even the friend that he had, he was still a giant in the city of Buffalo. And I do believe that he is worthy of me to read the proclamation that we had prepared for him on yesterday. Mrs. White, Ms. White read his proclamation.
 his bio as though if it were a movie yesterday, but we still appreciated that. But I believe that he is worthy for us to read this because in the research that we've done to draft this proclamation, I believe that some of the things on this proclamation are worth noting for the city of Buffalo to realize what kind of jewel we had walking and living and breathing amongst us. Whereas again, a human spirit has taken its flight
 and retire from this mortal coil at the call of the Heavenly Father to the mansion prepared for him from the foundation of the earth by an all-wise and loving God. We pin this resolution to express our grief in the loss of a true leader in the city of Buffalo, Bishop William Henderson, who passed away from this earthly scene Monday, January 11, 2021. And whereas Master William was known as Brother Billy growing up,
 for proselytizing in the streets of Buffalo. Many people have declared that he is the reason that their lives are changed. In 2003, Bishop Henderson is quoted for telling the Buffalo News, Here I was, just a little fellow, quoting Bible verses and commenting on them and warning people to get right with the Lord. Whereas Bishop Henderson dedicated his life to God, beginning his ministry at the early age of 15.
 His passion and commitment carried him across the world from stateside to Canada, to the continent of Africa, to Jamaica, to Trinidad, to Bago, and even to Russia, where he had to hide from the KGB. Throughout his life, he fought many illnesses, but never relinquished his faith.
 and continue to serve his church, community, and family with purpose and conviction. And whereas Bishop Henderson has left an indelible mark on the city of Buffalo, where his life's calling was to ensure that the gospel was preached and that the legacy of the memories of those who treaded the treacherous waters of the path to freedom
 that those who rode that freedom train from the South and made that perilous stop right here in Buffalo at the Michigan Street Baptist Church, and that those who have the audacity to fight for freedom were never forgotten.
 Throughout his more than 50 years in ministry, people will come to know the Michigan Street Baptist Church from all over the world, where he pastored, at El Bethel, but because of his life, legacy, and because of his labors. And whereas Bishop Henderson leaves behind his wife of 40 years, Deanna Henderson, three children, Dwan, and Dwayne.
 Addison and Rachel and four grandchildren. And again, we again proclaim that January 16th, because the mayor already took the 18th, we gave him the 16th to be Bishop William Henderson Day here in the city of Buffalo, New York. And this has been filed in the city's registry for next week's session to be adopted or approved or received and filed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any others? Council Member Golumbik.
 Thank you, Mr. President. The
 North District lost Mr. Ed Lesniak, the father-in-law of Serena Lesniak that works for the City of Buffalo, beloved husband of Teresa, active members of Assumption Church and of the community. They're going to be sorely missed by their family and friends. Also, Greg Dudek, former Erie County legislator for the district that...
 includes Riverside. And I believe that when he was there, it was Black Rock and the west side of Buffalo. He was a legislator back in the mid-70s for two or three terms. He passed away. He's going to be very sorely missed by his wife, Rosemary, and his friends at the Virgil Avenue Tobacconist and the Crow Club in Riverside. And I wanted to say hello to Bishop Brown. I
 I remember when he was a pastor and I was a junior council member. That's how long ago things were with us, just showing that we've aged in the time that we've been here. But thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Council Member Bowman?
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. In the Kysertown neighborhood, we lost Mr. Frank Salvo, who was also for the city of Buffalo. He was a retired supervisor of parks.
 He was also an Army veteran. He fought in the Vietnam War, a big baseball fan, and he was actually one of my Boy Scout troop leaders growing up. Mr. Frank fought with illness for many years, and he will be sorely missed. We send our condolences to his family. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President.
 I think that Council Member Wingo already spoke about Ms. Du Bois, some other Du Bois. I just want to give to say my prayers are with the family and want to also acknowledge that Pastor Du Bois, her husband was very helpful with us, Pastor Pritchard, with our youth back in the day. And so we honor him as well. But Mrs. Du Bois, I'm thankful that our office were able to help her get her honorary doctorate. We were trying to get it,
 And I want to thank Medi College for their efforts, but she passed before she got it. But the impression we got from her family once they received it on her behalf was tremendous. So I truly thank Medi.
 Madaya College for their efforts and making sure this happens for the family because it was something that she was an educator. She, we wish she could have got it before, but we know she's receiving it in glory. So I want to thank Madaya College and I want to say thank you to Taisha as well for working diligently to get it. We didn't make it in time, but I'm sure she's watching it from receiving it from glory. Thank you.
 We do acknowledge, again, Bishop Henderson, of course, Lady Du Bois, very close with so many people from the family. And that's a great loss. The Bishop Henderson, one of our last times with him was as the archways were making their way to Michigan Street.
 And they were on, they were being brought in on this huge truck that had to then be put together. And there was a police escort and it was slowly going down Michigan because they were trying to keep this thing stable. Bishop Henderson lived on Michigan and saw the archways moving.
 And he grabbed his stuff, and this is him telling the story, says he start running with
 trying to get down the street to meet those archways. And he took a tumble, but he got there. And he was standing out and he was leaning on his cane. And I remember going inside of the church, getting a chair so that he could sit there and watch those archways be put together. Took a few hours, but he sat there because he wanted to see that happen. And he was very supportive of,
 of the archways and anything in that corridor. I tell the story all the time that the only time, one of the only times that we lent anybody a huge amount of money was based on our relationship with Bishop Henderson and they needed new windows in the church. The state gave them a grant but wouldn't give them the windows until they paid for them.
 So I knew Bishop Henderson was good for it. And we paid for those windows, put them in, and right away, I remember getting the call saying, we have your money. And they paid that money back. So it was wonderful to have him. These are two giants, of course, in the church world, but not only in the church world, in the city of Buffalo.
 So if there are no others, we pause in this Common Council to remember not only them, but those who have given their life for our country and other countries since our last meeting. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you all. Appreciate you chaplains. We'll see you soon. Bishop Desney again. Dr. Warner. Well, I think Dr. Warner hangs around. A special presentation from Councilmember Brian Bowman.
 Thank you Mr. Chair. I wanted to take a brief moment to recognize a resident of our Lovejoy District who is doing great things and great work in our community. Ms. Kimberly Dixon was recently given the Father Baker Service Award for her work in human services with Catholic Charities.
 and I was so proud when I saw her story on the news. They did a wonderful expose on her and she really is doing wonderful work for our residents in our communities and as our proclamation states, Kim has worked at Catholic Charities for almost 20 years and has devoted her life of service which coupled with her loving spirit made her an obvious choice for this honor and
 Father Baker's ministry was founding on serving people in need, and Kim's dedication and willingness to go the extra mile for her clients personifies that same spirit.
 And I know from Kim's work in the community and work with my office, she's always been, her and her husband, Chris, have always been great partners and quick to step up and fight for her community. So I know she's passionate. And so we congratulate Kim. I will be by to drop off the proclamation. And if it's all right, Mr. Chair, if Kim wanted to say a couple words, we could give her that time now. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 Hello everybody. Thank you so much. I just felt honored just to be recognized because I do do a lot of work within the community and I just love helping others and helping them to, you know, be the best person that they can be. And it was just glad to finally be recognized and let people know that there are people out there who care.
 and people who want to help people just to be the best person that they can be. But I just want to thank you all for recognizing me today and just acknowledging the fact that, you know,
 I do work and I am trying to be helpful to whoever I can be helpful to. And I just want to thank Brian Bowman and his office as well, because they have been very helpful, very great to work with. And this has always been in our corner as well, him and Larry and Mr. Fontana as well. Thank you all. And thank you guys for your services as well.
 Well, thank you, Kim. And as your council member has already said, as Council Member Bowman said, you do a lot in this community and we just appreciate you. And also I'm a member of ELIM as well. So, you know, I did know Bishop Henderson and, you know, thoughts and prayers to his family as well. Absolutely. Thanks, Kim. Thank you. You guys have a great day. All righty.
 Thank you, everybody. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on January 5th, 2021 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. There is an updated agenda that was generated at 1
 25 today. So hopefully everyone has that updated agenda because the late files are included in there. All right, from the top. Mr. Chair, motion to take item 31 out of order. Motion is to take item 31 out of order. Let me get you it.
 Item 31, discharge item 20-1597 from legislation. Let me give a second. I was looking for the item first. Hold on one second. All right. Item 31, second by Council Member Fierletto. All right. It's in front of us. Motion to approve the discharge. Motion to approve the discharge, second by Council Member Fierletto. From the top. Item number one, report of sale 1475 Amherst.
 This item is open report of sale Councilman free letter Muting I was just unmuting myself the Let's see Sorry, I was having some tech
 Oh, I'm having some technical difficulties here. Sorry. You want us to come back to the item? Yeah, if we could. I'm just having some technical difficulties for the moment. Okay. Motion to hold item one in abeyance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number two, reported sale 102-104 Dodge. Motion to receive and file. Second.
 Item number two, it's going to CD. That should be to CD. Excuse me, my mistake. Item two to CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item three, submission of monthly report December 2020. Motion to receive and file items three and four. Second by Councilmember Fairlotto. Item five, change order TYLEN. Motion to approve items five and six. Second by Councilmember Glumbach. Councilmember Bowman. Yes.
 Councilmember Farrell-Leddo? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 7, appoint cell block attendance. Motion to approve motion to send civil service items 7, 8, and 9.
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 10, appoint Corporation Council 1. Motion is now to approve items 10, 11, and 12. Second by Councilmember Golombet. 13, my mistake. 13, second by Councilmember Golombet. Councilmember Bowman. Yes.
 Councilmember Farrell-Leddo? Yes. Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 14, food store license 904 Broadway. Defer to Councilmember
 From Fillmore District. Legislation, please. Motion to send legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 15, 982 Broadway, who's your license? Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 16, property manager license, Buffalo Seneca Street LLC. This is approved. Objections, motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Ledl? Yes. Councilmember Blombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 17, secondhand dealer 2034 South Park. Refer to Councilmember Priscallon?
 Can we please send that to committee? Motion is sent to committee. Second by council member Scannell. Item 18, License Notices. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Tem Scannell. Item 19, Appoint Assistant Legislative Aid. Motion to send to civil service. Mr. Chair. Council member Winkle. Yes, the clerk is on, correct? She has a meeting.
 Okay. Do we have any? Okay. I don't know who can answer this question because I don't know if this person is the individual who is supposed to be replacing one of our former staff in the clerk's office to ensure that our death certificates are being processed. Is that what this position is? Well, it's just a position in the clerk's office. The assignments have the ability to rotate, but there will be duties assigned.
 I'm just curious, does that include death certificates? Well, all of them can do death certificates. Yeah. So it's not a specific job is my point. If no one objects, Mr. Chair, I don't believe we need to send this to civil service. If we need to get this person in as soon as possible to make sure that we have coverage in that office, then let's make the motion to approve. I'm fine with that. No objections. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Next item.
 That wasn't approved. It wasn't approved. Council Member Vollman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Gombach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pritchard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 20-20.
 Reports to the council. Motion to send to police oversight items 20 and 21. Seconded by Councilmember Farrell-Leto. Item 22, BOPC Gulfies. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item 23, request to speak at police oversight. Motion to send police oversight items 23 through 25. Seconded by Councilmember Wengel.
 Item 26, Committee Meetings Transcriptions. Motion to receive and file items 26 and 27. Second by Council, President Prochambe Scanlon. Item 28, Letter to New York State Senators. Motion is to adopt, Mr. Chair. Yes, sir. Mr. Chair, as the coronavirus pandemic continues to threaten people throughout the state, the nation, and the city of Buffalo,
 a number of council members met with the African-American Health Equity Task Force this week and they expressed to us a concern regarding the distribution of the vaccine here in the City of Buffalo especially to community of color similar to what happened when they started to
 do the testing that there was an inequity in how it was handled and they were concerned regarding this new vaccine that's going to be coming out. They would like it to see readily available, especially in health community centers, community centers that are in the community itself. So they wanted to make sure that this was expressed to our delegation. So we put together
 a letter that is being sent via email
 U.S. Postal and Electronic to our delegation, asking them for their assistance to make sure that this vaccine is amply available, especially in community that are most vulnerable. So we asked our delegation to help us out with this. I apologize to other members if your names were not included. There were a number of council members that were on the Zoom meeting when we did this.
 The letter is going out. We appreciate all your support on this. Thank you. All right. And let's put a second of Council Member Nowakowski, who has the floor.
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I did want to note for the record that one of the hardest hit areas in the city of Buffalo is the zip code of 14212, and that's in Broadway-Filmore. And there's also a community health center located directly in Broadway-Filmore at 1021 Broadway, Jericho Road Community Center. I couldn't imagine a better community center where this vaccine should be distributed to, especially with a lot of folks in that.
 neighborhood that are walkers. So as vaccines are now being distributed, and we have folks in our neighbors that need to get vaccinated, we need to make sure that we're taking care of those that are most vulnerable and have the most barriers to get to health centers. So I just like to note that for the record. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. And thank you for the letter. Council Member White.
 Thank you Mr. President and I want to thank the African-American Health Equity Group for reaching out to us. This was something that of course they've been working on for a number of years and they saw that it was a great way to partner with the council because again we have relationships with folks in our community and we definitely want the vaccine to be distributed as quickly and as effectively in our community especially with the new strain that's supposed to be a lot more contagious.
 So it just right now we there's a lot of confusion with this process from the federal government and I'm really hopeful that when President Biden gets in, there will be a federal mandate on this so that we can get it effectively in people's arms because we know that people are dying at record numbers, and why this vaccine should not be in the.
 in some freezer somewhere while people are dying. So we're hopeful to work with everyone who's involved because I'm sure everyone has that same agenda. They want to see it quickly, more quickly in arms. But the folks who stood up and who are speaking up, those districts and those areas that are most vulnerable, we certainly want to take a stand and make certain that people know we want to see it as quickly as possible in the arms of the people that we represent. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Thank you. And I sit on the state's task force for the distribution, the diverse distribution. Tish James, our state attorney general, got on the call a couple days ago doing a very lengthy meeting that went on for almost four hours.
 And her last words when she got on, they asked her if she wanted words, and she said, don't spend too much time analyzing, hurry up and get these vaccines in people's arms. And I think that she is right, but we do have to make sure that those communities that are most vulnerable.
 that they see this vaccine after our first responders and all of our essential workers, especially in hospitals and schools. So thank you, Council Member Revere and Council Member Wyatt for bringing this to us. Next item. Item 29, Schools Owned Safety Program. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Submission list civil service item number one. I'm sorry, Mr. Council Member Golombak. Yeah, can we revisit item number 19, please? I think that we made a mistake with the item. I normally would do it at the end, but I could tell you what it was. It was approved. Yes, and I think it was supposed to be adopted. I'm not positive, though. All right. We'll come back to it at the end. Okay, thank you. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it.
 All right, next item. Civil service, item number one, status change principal engineer. Motion is to receive items one through and including 11. Second by council member White. Under finance, item number 12, 485A active list. Motion to receive five. Second by president Pro Temp Scanlon.
 Community Development Item 13, Designated Developer Agreement, Mount Aaron, Heart of the City. Motion is to approve Items 13, 14, and 15. Second by Councilmember Wengel. Councilmember Bowman? Yes.
 Councilmember Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Legislation Item 16, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 337, Preservation Code.
 Motion is to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Council Member Rivera has the floor. Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, the origin of this legislation or the amendment to the ordinance was due to a demolition that had occurred on a property located at 184 West Utica that was demolished
 before this common council can vet the application itself. So what we did is we amended the,
 the legislation. So when somebody has a landmark application, they'll go to OSP. The clock will start ticking right there for 60 days for them to decide on how, whether or not to landmark it. Then it comes before the Common Council, and the Common Council would consider the landmark. During that period of time, there will be a moratorium, and
 and I just want to thank Councilmember Mitch Nowakowski and I'm sure he's going to want to speak on this item as well and all the Councilmembers for supporting the amendment to this legislation. Thank you very much. Thank you Councilmember Rivera and Councilmember Nowakowski. You have been introduced. Thank you Mr. Chair. I just wanted to piggyback off of that and
 off of the 68 windows which is not uh was not uh in the ordinance it was just it already is previously stated in in previous codes so that's that 60 days is just now an understanding amongst departments relevant departments like osp and preservation board and department of permits and inspections and i also just want to thank our staff our incredible council staff especially jim mentor who's really gotten into the weeds on this and really helped to carry this but also um
 the preservation board and because they were able to help us because we really needed to see what we could do to help them to do the best job that they can. So when they do give us an application to be considered, the Common Council can vet and take that into consideration and be able to give us the full scope and look that it deserves. So thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you to my co-sponsor, Niagara District Council Member David Rivera.
 All right. Hearing no others, next item. Roll call. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Leddo? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item 17, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 337. Motion is to receive and file. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Item 18, Food Store License 982 Broadway. Uh this item is in the Fillmore District. This is a food license and I will uh
 Pass the floor to the Fillmore District Council Member. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you. I appreciate it, Mr. Chair. I have submitted a written denial for this application as per Chapter 194, Section 3.
 uh f and where the submitted denial does need to be in writing which is with the city clerk but i'm denying it under the basis basis of section 194-3 section d which states all new applications and the renewals therefore shall be referred to the department of police for its investigations regarding the moral character of the applicant of the applicant and the
 incident history of the property location with a recommendation for approval or disapproval for the application. And within that written denial, I have stated that I am denying it, Mr. Nassar Adele, because there wasn't an attorney that was for the application, but
 his client was not on the application. And we need accurate names of those folks on our application so the city can have transparency and then it can have a fair opportunity to scrutinize the applicant. And we also need to hold folks accountable and to have that information available if something happens at the site that will then go to the city of Buffalo. So accurate information is key.
 My explanation for denial is in writing and submitted to the clerk per our charter rules. So motion is to deny. Motion has been to deny, and I believe it was already seconded. You have a second, clerk? No, not yet. Seconded by the Majority Leader Rivera. Resolutions, item 30, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 309, Hazardous Operation of Motor Vehicle and Park. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Bowman.
 Item 32 denial letter for 982 Broadway. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Scala. Mr. Chair. Council Member Wingo. Can we revisit that last item by Bowman and Nowakowski? Can we do all of the revisits at the end as I asked Mr. Golombet? What item was that? Well, I want to come back to it at the end. We'll come back to all the visits. All right. Hold on. So we know what item to come back to? 30.
 We'll come back to it in the end. Okay. Not a problem. 30. Okay. Next item. Item 33, hello, lunch options in Buffalo Public Schools. Motion to adopt the results, remainder to education committee. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Wingo? Yep. Is it all right if I be added to this item?
 Sure. I'm sure the sponsors wouldn't mind. Council Member Wingo would like to be added. Council Member Nowakowski would like to be added. No one else? No, we're on it. It's okay. He can be, we'll add it.
 Okay, Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you very much. Council Member Bowman and myself, and now with the addition of Council Member Wanko are introducing a legislation, or a resolution that will be going to the Education Committee, which will have an Education Committee meeting stated within the resolution to hear this item, because we are seeing a lot of Muslim students
 in our districts that want to go to Buffalo Public Schools, but need to overcome this barrier of halal lunch options that aren't necessarily present in the Buffalo Public Schools. And Council Member Bowman and myself have had wonderful conversations with district officials who want to bridge this gap and do the right thing. And this resolution
 points out some of the problems that we do have where we need to get a hold of our federal delegation, but this is really a issue of inclusion and to our youngest members of society and those in the Buffalo Public Schools. So we'll have a hearty conversation in the education committee. Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wyatt. Please add me as well. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt, you're not on it.
 Already so, we'll add you. Council Member Bowman. Mr. Chair, if I could just say that on the next education committee will be on February 23rd. That's where this will be discussed.
 And we had meaningful discussions with the Buffalo Public Schools and Dr. Karestes, and they seem very open to the issue. There are some issues that exist, and that's why we need to reach out to the federal delegation. But I definitely look forward to, you know, speaking about this in the Education Committee. Thank you very much. Are there other school districts that have grappled with this that you have found in your research?
 It's actually been done in New York City. They've been kind of leading the way with this work. So we have a foundation to build off of, which is exciting. So we have some of the members of the Buffalo Islamic Cultural Center helping us with that communication. I think that's wonderful. Very good move. All right.
 You got your first and second on that, Ms. Wright? Yeah. Yeah, I read. Council Member Wingo. Yep, thank you. I want to commend again Council Member Bowman and Noah Kronsky for drafting the resolution because this is something that we were...
 beginning to take up in the Education Committee, and we had been talking about how this was done across the state of New York. So again, thank you for this resolution, and I look forward to that dialogue to see how Buffalo can continue to be a leader in New York State and the country.
 All righty. Mr. Chairman, please add me as well. Please add Councilmember Golombek. You can add me as well. Please add Councilmember Rivera. Please add Councilmember Frioletto. Please add Councilmember Pridgen. Please add Councilmember Scanlon. That's the entire council. All right. Next item.
 Item 34, support Record Theatre New York's Main Street Grant. This is a, I'll defer to Councilmember. Thank you Mr. Chair, motion is to approve. Motion to approve. All right, second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Ledoux. Yes.
 Councilmember Blombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 35, Records Retention and Disposition Schedule MU1. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Fira Leto.
 Item 36, Support of historical marker for President Lincoln's funeral stop in Buffalo. Motion to adopt the resolves. The remainder to CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 37, Cease ticketing victims of car theft for leaving vehicles running during winter months. Late file, Mr. President. Okay.
 Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Thank you, Council President. Car thefts are much more often a crime of opportunity rather than crimes that are extremely well thought out and perpetrated by criminal masterminds. You know, leaving a vehicle running to heat up or for other reasons increases the likelihood of that crime occurring.
 The situation becomes exponentially more dangerous if children are left in an unattended automobile. For these reasons, it is a violation of New York State law to leave your automobile running. However, considering the cold winter months we experience here in Buffalo, it's often necessary for residents to turn their vehicles on for several minutes before being able to drive them. Now, should a resident have a vehicle with an automatic car starter, running their vehicle is not an issue as it cannot be driven without the keys. No one can steal it.
 However, for the thousands of residents in this city living in poverty, they cannot afford automatic car starters and therefore must manually start their cars. So it would stand to reason that the vast majority of the vehicles being stolen in this situation are ones which require their owners to manually ignite them.
 So the vehicle stolen while heating up, it seems to me that ticketing the owner is punishing them for their inability to afford the luxury of a car starter, therefore essentially ticketing them as a result of their economic standing.
 I'd like to see this change. Obviously, this is a matter of New York State law, so it would have to change on that end in the long term, ultimately. But in the meantime, I'd like to see the Buffalo Police Department use some discretion in these situations, particularly when it is during our winter months and absent of the presence of children.
 Again, I don't want to see people who just can't afford a car starter or an automatic car starter be punished because they need to warm their car up before they drive in the morning or later in the day at any time. So if we can have this resolution, if we can adopt the resolves and send the remainder to police oversight, or we can have discussion with the Buffalo Police Department, that I'd appreciate it. All right, then it's seconded by Councilmember Scanlon.
 Motion is to adopt the result. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Remain to police oversight. Yeah. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Thank you. Item 38, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 38 and 39. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 40, call for public hearing on racism as a public health threat. This is a late file by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. Can we send this to community CD?
 Sure. Just to have further conversation again, I want to thank the African American Health Equity Group for putting forth these efforts. We've been talking a great deal about police reform, but there's a lot of other reforms that we must deal with that are affected by systemic racism. They have an agenda which is actually prepared by the legislature.
 AMA that talks about the disparities and how racism can impact us as far as healthcare. So we want to have this conversation to see what role we can play as council members. We know that a lot of this is from the Erie County, but we have the bully quote to give that and get that information out there and hopefully get other people on board to address this very present issue. It's not going to go away until we put forth an effort to really
 recognize it, number one, and number two, put resources behind it to combat it. And a lot of it is, I think, as Majority Leader spoke about earlier, is how do we improve our community health centers? They are the boots on the ground that can assist us in this. And I know that a number of them in our community are doing tremendous work, especially as it relates to
 groups who have been marginalized, they are there and they connect. And these folks are the ones who they trust. So we need to do a better job in expanding their programs to make certain that everyone has quality health care. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Please allow me to sign on with you.
 Motion is to adopt the resolves or the remainder to CD. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Second by council member, Noah Kowski. Is that the last right late? We wanted to have a couple to revisit. We have three to revisit item number one.
 Motion is to send to CD. Motion is now to send to CD. All right. So first we want to take it out of the band, second by Councilmember Fialetto, and then send to CD, second by Councilmember Fialetto. Motion to revisit item 19. Motion to revisit item 19. I believe it is to correct the motion from a motion to adopt to a motion to approve. Is that correct, Councilmember Golombet?
 I think it was the other way around. Let's see. What did we have? I think we originally approved it. Can we check? Yeah, and it just needs to be adopted. Correct. The motion. Go ahead. The previous motion. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Golombek.
 I think it's to adopt. Right. That's what we want. So most of it is to adopt. That's okay. We got it. Second by Councilmember . Exit to revisit. We can revisit item number 30. I motion to revisit item number 30, second by Councilmember Wingo who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was just asking if the sponsor didn't mind that I be added this resolution to amend the ordinance because I absolutely agree with all of the tenants that were listed in here and also commending my colleagues again, Mr. Nowakowski, Mr. Bowman on such a great job and how thorough.
 of a amendment this is as they are literally giving the city of Buffalo some type of teeth to enforce these ATVs. So again, if they don't mind, I'd like to be added. He said yes, add Mr. Wingo. Any other items to revisit? No. Councilmember Wyatt, you're on mute. Are we all on the, for number 30, are we all on that one? I thought that was everyone, but if not, I would like to be added. I'm not sure what number 30 is. Maybe we can bring it up.
 The one we just spoke about. What else are the ATVs? The ATVs, no, everybody's not on it. And Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. Golumbak, too, please. Golumbak. I'd like to be added as well. Rivera. All right, I guess. Vera Leto. All right. Stanley, did I miss anybody who wants to be added? All righty. You all are added.
 All right, if there are no other items on the agenda, clerk, the announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash B-F-L-O-C-C.
 Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, January 26, 2021 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, January 6, 2021 at 1 o'clock p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, January 26, 2021 at 2 o'clock p.m. Special Committees, Committee on Police Oversight, Monday, January 25, 2021 at 11 o'clock a.m.
 Thank you. Any announcements for your districts, council members? All righty. Hearing none, motion? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Brian Bowman. We are adjourned.