Councilwoman Everhart? Present. Councilmember Farrelletto? Here. Councilmember Golumbac? Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk? Present. Councilmember Nowakowski? Present. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Council President Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Cormier is present. Okay, from the top. Item number one, call for a special session. Motion to receive and file. Motion is to receive and file, seconded by President Pro Temp-Bullman. Anyone who's watching at home, I just wanted to make clear that we were not intending to have this special session today. We were debating possibly having one later in the week around Thursday because The new class for the Buffalo Police Department is being sworn in on Friday, and if this contract was going to be approved, we wanted to do it this week so that the new class would be hired under the parameters of that contract. But due to the weather that's coming, the weather forecast for tonight and into tomorrow, we wanted to move that special session up to today. So we apologize for any inconvenience for anyone who might have wanted to attend. But in order to make sure we got this done to cover the next class that's coming on Friday, we felt it was necessary to move it up till today. Item number two, discharge items 24-99, 24-101, 24-102, and 24-103 from finance committee. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number three, police Bolivian Association tentative collective bargaining agreement. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number four, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number five, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golanbek. Item number six, transfer of funds. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski and Council Member Rivera. Hands to the floor. Mr. Chairman, on item number three, the approval of the bargaining agreement, I just want to go back to some of the requests that were made of the administration. We've had little time because of the weather forecast and because of the class coming in, where we really haven't had an opportunity to really look at the numbers for the out years. And we were told that they would provide us with that information. I ask that they continue to provide us with that information. We'd like to know what the cost is. Not only for the current years, which is 2.7, but for the out years, which could be in the tens of millions of dollars. And we just want to make sure that the city's prepared to plug the gaps that may arise in the out years and that the city is prepared and has a plan to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Anyone else? Yeah, one of the things I know that the BFSA requested for, along with the budget, was a plan for any potential gap in the out years, correct? Delano Dow, Commissioner of Administration and Finance. Yes, the BFSA did request a gap year or however you want to cover these in outer years. We will provide that data to you. And we do also have an updated four-year plan to cover the cost, which we can provide to council today. Please do. Majority Leader Hulten Pope. If I may, Mr. President, during our Finance Committee meeting earlier, I asked the commissioner what the ask was for the city of the state. What we would need in an ideal world, which would be an additional 25 million in additional AIM funds over the next three years, and the governor's proposal was just released. Members will get a copy of it, the vast council staff too. And it turns out her initial proposal remains flat with no increase at all as it stands today across the state. No increase for anybody, so we have a lot of asking to do over the next couple of months. I just want to make sure that's on the record, thanks. If there's nothing else, Mr. President, motion to adjourn? Motion is to adjourn, seconded by Council Member Rivera.