Special. 4, 3, 2, 1. Special public hearing on the 2018 operating budget, Tuesday, January 16, 2018. All right. Thank you. We ask that council staff close the back door, please. Ooh, we're throwing. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to welcome you to, if we can get the back door closed, council staff. Those who are in the top gallery, the chamber is created where everything can be heard all over, so we'd ask that you would please, as you're coming in, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are here tonight for what is a first. Tonight is the first time in my tenure of being on the council and of having a budget. We can't because it'll bleed over. The back door must be closed. So this is the first time that the Council has held a meeting in January for a budget that is coming up that will not be presented to the Council from the Mayor until the first day of May. According to the City Charter Section 20-3, on or before the first day of May, the Mayor shall submit to the Council a budget. So there is nothing by charter that forces the council to have this, but last year during the budget hearings, which usually for the council is after the mayor has submitted the budget, people spoke to this council and said, well, the budget is already before you now. And we felt, many of us on the council, and I wrote the resolution, that that was a fair statement. And so we wanted to give people... the opportunity to be heard on what they would like to see in the operating budget. Now, I want to be very clear. Today's meeting is about the operating budget of the city or the general fund. It isn't the capital budget, which would be things like streets and sidewalks and that type of thing. These are things, the money that we use to run the city. So I want to be clear because if you start talking about the capital budget, that's not what we're here for tonight. And we wouldn't be able to really, I don't want to take up the time to talk about a budget that is not in front of us. So I do want to thank, first of all, my colleagues who are here tonight who voted unanimously that we would hold this type of hearing. And I think it is important. So stating that, and we do have a rather lengthy list of speakers, and so that everyone has at least one time to talk, because often what happens without a time limit The first people go on half an hour and then people leave and we're not able to hear everyone fairly. So the first time around you will have a limit because the list is so extensive of three minutes. The counter will be up, it will go to zero, and if you go over the three minutes, I'll politely, politely ask you to wrap up so that we can hear everyone. Again, this is on the operating budget, and it really came out of people's requests that said we want to be heard early. And so this council has done that. All right. So we are going to start with those who have already signed up. There are two mics. We will name three names. The first three names, one can go to one mic or be in the vicinity. Another can go to the other one or be in the vicinity so that we continue to roll right along. You are welcome. All of this is being recorded. Once we put it down in paper, we will submit it to the administration because it is the council does not. put the budget out, the council receives the budget, and then we cannot, we can dispose, we can take things away, but the mayor is the one who actually writes the budget. So it's your council who is hearing you tonight. First three names. Inga Yakam, Dennis Barr, John Swan, So if they will begin to go to different mics, there is a green button, there's a little button. If the green light is not on, we'd ask you to push it and then state your name and residence for the record. Hi, my name is Inga Yakum. I'm a leader of Buffalo Immigrants Leadership Camp, BUILD, and Project A Voice of Buffalo. I live on Berwyn Avenue, Buffalo, New York. I'm originally from Liberia, West Africa. And I'm here today because of incidents that happened. I have a child in the Buffalo Public School who got suspended for 45 days. And there was no thorough investigation to that effect. as well as no teacher. He had no tutorial classes for those 45 days, which is very frustrating, and he got very upset about it because he feels like he wasn't heard being a foreign student. So, as a member of this Buffalo Leadership Team, we do appreciate the efforts that Buffalo Public Schools is putting into supporting our refugee immigrant children. But however, the Buffalo Public School graduation rate for English language learner students was 25% in 2016. And this is completely unacceptable and is an indication that either the school district are not aware or don't care about our immigrant kids. So Buffalo leadership team is believe that much more can be or should be done to this effect so that we can see an increase. We want to see an increase in funding for cultural sensitivity teachers and strong restorative justice practice in each school. We aware that Buffalo gave $500,000 more to the Buffalo public school budget which of course amount to $83 a year per child. And we don't believe as parents and members of this team that $83 is enough to educate a child for them to be successful in life. So today we are asking immigrant parents as well as the team is asking Common Council members, Mayor Brown, to stand with the Buffalo immigrant leadership team by investing more in our children's future, to give them a chance, give them a reason to stay in school, and to have the dream that they want to achieve. Thank you for your time. We look forward to talking with you. Thank you. Next. Good afternoon. My name is Denise Barr. I am with the leadership of the Food Belt and with the Advisory Council in the Fruit Belt. I am grateful to be here today as many times as I have sat in these seats, but today is an exciting time for me because I see progress. And this is a wonderful thing that the voice of the people is finally beginning to get recognized in this situation. so you know i'm here today to say yes i'm grateful that the common council has endorsed our our what was the original land trust for the fruit belt you get let me be specific with that because there seems to be more than one out there but we had the original we put it together community first alliance and the fruit belt residents and i'm grateful for that so I am here today because as much as it's been endorsed and as much as it's been talked about, we need for Mayor Brown to come together with everybody else that's in alliance with us and to look at this situation with the land trust and to see that this is necessary for the fruit belt. This is a community, again, you know, as many times as people have heard me, but I'm going to keep saying it until you hear it in your sleep. This is a community that has been ignored and pushed back in 2018. They still don't have what they should have, and I'm going to continue to sit in these seats, and I'm going to continue to fight for them because that's my job. Community First Alliance, group-built leadership, and the endorsement of the Common Council, Mayor Brown signed on to the FB community land trust. We need that to happen immediately. In addition to that, we are not forgetful that we also want to see that money that was earmarked for our community center, because we deserve it. to have a community center, just as much as anybody else. We deserve to have a community center. And that money needs to stay earmarked for our community center. So I'm thankful to be here today, and I'm grateful to my councilmen who has continued to work with us, and for those councilmen that understand the need. And that is our theme for 2018. Meet the need, don't feed the grief. Next speaker. Good evening. My name is Jen Swan and I'm the interim executive director of Arts Services Initiative of Western New York. My organization works with the many nonprofit arts groups and artists in the region, helping them to plan, prepare, and be successful in their creative businesses. On behalf of the Arts Services Initiative, the Greater Buffalo Cultural Alliance, and the entire arts sector, we want to thank the Common Council, the Mayor, and the City for its past and continued support and partnership with the arts and our community. This partnership that we have allows our many arts organizations to have a greater impact, seek and leverage additional funding and support, and bring national and international attention to our region. However, there's still much more work to be done in regards to city support. Recently, I mailed a position paper to all the Common Council members titled Arts and Culture in the City of Buffalo for 2018 and Beyond. This paper includes five main points in relation to city support for the arts and suggestions for improvements. However, I'm only going to touch on two of those tonight. Those two are support for arts organizations in the minimum amount of $2 per capita. Currently, the support is at $0.40 per capita. and the creation of a routine, transparent, and peer review based process for awarding arts funding. Currently, the City supports the arts through a total of $100,000 distributed to over 30 arts organizations on an annual basis. This funding has been kept at the same level for almost the past five years with no increase or alteration. Currently, the funding, as I mentioned before, sits at 40 cents per capita. Raising the level to $2 per capita would provide a more appropriate amount of support to existing organizations and be significant enough to encourage growth for new organizations to further meet the community's needs. Also, the budget line for arts funding is currently co-mingled with anti-violence funding, and both of these items are very important and deserving of their own dedicated line items as well. Secondly, the process and application for arts funding is also shared with the anti-violence pot as well. And we would ask that there's a creation for a routine, transparent, and peer-reviewed-based process for awarding arts funding on its own right. And then the anti-violence would be reviewed in its own right as well. We suggest the release of arts funding application at a regular yearly interval and a transparent process based on peer review, which is an accepted best practice at the county, state, and federal level. Also, within the past couple years as well, timing of the release of the funding application and process has been delayed greatly, so much that actually two years of funding for both arts and anti-violence funding has been missed completely. So this means that arts groups and anti-violence groups and initiatives have missed funding that they may have relied upon in any given year. By any indicator, Buffalo is a leading cultural city. Many of our peer cities have strong and multifaceted partnerships. And for that reason, we would like to ask the mayor and the Common Council to publicly voice your support and commitment to these initiatives that were addressed tonight. Thank you again for your support and partnership over the years. We look forward to more city collaboration in 2018 and beyond. And we look forward to working with you on these improvements on the arts funding process. Thank you. Next three speakers. Alex Montia, India Walton, Tom Graber. Everybody's coming down. I don't come here with any affiliations to any organization, but just as a product of the Buffalo public schooling system. I currently attend Canisius College, and I believe that education is going to be a major key to community development in Buffalo and developing the people who live in Buffalo. believe that our education system is lacking because I experienced it firsthand to see the resources that other school districts have that our district doesn't necessarily have the SAT prep courses the AP courses the electives that students from the Buffalo public schooling system are able to experience and I believe that Positions for parent involvement and community involvement within our schools and community decision-making within our schools is necessary, and I'd like to see funding allocated for that and funding allocated to help our students succeed and be the next generation of leaders once they move past the school and district and be able to say that they're proud of the education that they've had when they look at the education that everybody else has had. So that's pretty much it. Thank you. And we will need your help to help advocate for us because the council can allocate the money. And what we've found out is we cannot direct the money. So once the council sends over, or the city sends the money to school district. Right now, state law allows the school district to do whatever. When Damone Smith was here, he wanted money set aside for truant officers or attendance teachers. I'm sorry. And the decision came back that the council has no authority over that. So I hear the jest is more money for education. And then over at the Board of Education side is where we're going to have to get specific. But we will send exactly what you said to the Board of Education. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Next speaker. There we go. Good evening. My name is India Walton. I am a resident of Ellicott District from the Fruit Belt. I'm here today to give my endorsement to participatory budgeting. We would like to try that in the Ellicott District. But also just to talk a little bit about budgets and what it means to have an economy. So I think in traditional language we think of economy as finances and, you know, the ways in which we spend money and pay bills. But actually I've been learning that the root word, eco, actually means home and noem means the management. So when we talk about an economy, we're actually talking about the management of home, and home is our community. And I think it is quite astonishing that we're spending a third of our budget on policing and very little on services like parks, recreation, and community services. I don't think that an invasive presence of police actually helps to effectively reduce crime. We've not seen a reduction in crime in Buffalo. I think that some things that will help reduce crime is actually giving people something to live for and hope in – resources. So I think that if we take some of this money that we're using to militarize our police force and actually put that into employing our youth full time, giving them adequate recreational facilities and something to do after school so they're not hanging out in the streets and a way to make a decent living for people so they're not resorting to underground economies that will actually see a shift in the culture of Buffalo as a whole so I just wanted to say that but as always Thank you for being so forward-thinking and hearing the voice of the community. Thank you And let's just name three more after that so we we are rolling along and hearing and Daniel sack Bill Waco Sydney Brown, all right We'll get you on. It's a lot wider in this aisle. It's nice. I'm like 5'11", and my knees are not hanging. First, I want to thank the Common Council for holding this meeting. My name is Tom Graber. I'm the Annual Fund and Grants Coordinator for the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra. And I'm here to piggyback off of what Jen Swan said, give you more context about what the arts and culturals do in our city. I don't think it comes as any surprise for anyone in this room when I say that orchestra is another nonprofit cultural organization across the nation. It faced hard times. I grew up actually in Oswego, New York, a little small rural town, and I remember the Syracuse Symphony coming to my school a lot. It was very inspiring. I was a violinist at the time. That orchestra went bankrupt back in 2011, and I kind of used that as motivation and as a drive every day to do my job as best as possible. With that being said, the BPO is extremely fortunate to have the support of so many individuals, the local government, foundations, and corporations from Western New York. The orchestra employs about 100 full-time and 300 part-time individuals. These employees live and support the community. We buy homes, we send our kids to school, we teach and volunteer our time. Musicians as well travel from across the country to audition here. The BPO brings talent to Western New York and it stays here. Most of the BPO's $11 million budget is reinvested back into Western New York. Through prudent planning and programming, we've achieved a balanced budget for the past 12 out of 13 years, with the only exception being in 2008, which was the height of the recession. We impact hundreds of thousands of people across Erie County. Last year we impacted roughly 51,000 students either at Klein Hands or in classrooms across all eight counties of Western New York. This includes Buffalo Public Schools as well. These aren't just musicians going in and playing for an hour with children just to have them. miss class or anything. Some of the events that we do target specific community members. For instance, we had an exceptional holiday concert over the holiday season where we had busloads of people with autism spectrum disorders come in and enjoy a performance from the orchestra. These are people, these are children and families that would not otherwise be able to have that opportunity. Filling upon that, last season we reached over 212,000 people at BPO Conference. And that's again either at Finehans or out in our community, such as at Canal Center. We collaborate with so many different cultural organizations, such as Road Less Travel, Irish Classical Theatre, the Albright-Knox, Chase Performing Arts Center, the Richardson Olmstead Complex, and a name of a few. We're trying to fulfill our mission to reach the broadest audience possible. And the impact that the BPO and others like us yield in Western New York, according to an Arts and Economic Prosperity report, which I know Jen can give you a copy of if you'd like, the Nonprofits and Arts Center in Western New York generates roughly $352 million a year, and $27.5 million of that is garnered by local government revenue. Funding the BPO and other cultural organizations is an investment in the Buffalo future. A strong arts community not only leads to a better quality of life, but also attracts businesses to the area and retains leaders in the workforce. It's a major attraction for our group. Thanks, sir. I just want to thank you so much for your past support, and we're honored to be here. Thank you. Next speaker. Yeah. My name is Daniel Sack. Thank you, Council President Pridgen, for holding this meeting. You mentioned how the mayor creates the budget and you were approving it. I was wondering, seeing as you're the law-making body of City Hall, if the council couldn't change that so that you had more input into the budget that you were approving rather than just looking at the mayor's budget. But the reason why I came is because before the snow melted last week, I walked to Elmwood Avenue and counted 19 properties in half a block where there was no evidence that any snow had been cleared from the sidewalks. There were two illegally parked cars. I mention that because the city is very vigilant about ticketing cars for parking violations, but not so vigilant finding property owners who fail to clear the sidewalks. I know the city has profits of several millions of dollars a year from parking violations. I think that tickets for uncleared sidewalks could also turn a profit, seeing as there were 19 sidewalks that weren't cleared in that half block and only two cars. I've heard, you know, call 311. I don't know why citizens should have to call 311 for this. Parking enforcement doesn't rely on 311 calls. Nobody even cares if the car is damaged. meter ran out or or if it's parked on the wrong side of the street at noon But this is a quality of life. This is a life safety issue Why should it be up to citizens to report on troubled sidewalks? It's simple quality of life if a third of the city households don't have cars these residents probably walk probably as my wife and I do they often walk in the street and Please, budget some funds for this. Probably you'd see a profit and you'd see safer sidewalks. It's one of these win-win situations I've been talking about for decades. I was in Mayor Mazziello's office.
 20 years ago talking about this and I've heard all the excuses about how difficult it is to enforce how enforcement would be uneven there's lots and lots of excuses I've heard about oh you don't expect an 80 year old house owner to be able to clear the snow and I replied well where's this person gonna walk does parking violations look at the age of a car owner before they ticket them Do permits and inspections look at the age of a property owner before they cite them for a hole in the roof? No. If the sidewalks were cleared, we would all be better off. Thank you. Next speaker. Bill Walker, local Buffalo resident. I'd like to speak in favor of a request called a demand request. request is a little softer word for the Common Council to budget 1% of the city budget, or at least what you have control over for participatory budgeting. The purpose of this... And you'll hear the figure $5 million. That sounds like a lot. That's based on a $500 million budget, but it's 1%, which is one penny out of every dollar that's spent. The purpose of participatory budgeting is to increase citizen involvement in the community, to empower citizens, and to more effectively direct public resources to community needs. I've been on a steering committee that's been working, as far as I know, voluntarily, even in terms of the paid employees of the Clean Air Coalition for the last two years, two years ago to spend $150,000 that were budgeted for this purpose in the city budget, and last year David Rivera committed $10,000 of his discretionary money. And the participatory budgeting is a process whereby – residents, citizens of Buffalo in this case, directly say what they feel they would like to see done in their community. It gets vetted and then the projects get voted on by residents. So it brings people into the community. It started some years ago in Brazil. The easiest way to condense this into three minutes is just a couple highlights. In 2015, there were 1,500 incidences of PB across five continents. In New York City, every council member had a million dollars that was committed out of – for their district to spend. And in Boston, there was a million dollars that actually was budgeted for participatory budgeting for teenagers to decide how to spend. The results – in Brazil have shown that participatory budgeting has led to direct improvements in facilities in Brazil, and also that it can lead to improved conditions for the poor. It brings people into the budgeting process, and it's not just economic basis, but for all of us that don't have a direct say or power to do this, and also resources. the council members budgets are relatively limited in terms of discretionary budgets so even if they were wanting to do this um there are many other demands on the 100 or 150 000 that they have so we're requesting that you all budget one percent of of of the budget for participatory budgeting and thank you very much for holding this open hearing it's wonderful so yeah So I never imagined that we'd have this many people here. I'm really glad. But I have 40, almost 40 more speakers. So because it is public and I'm giving you the power to decide if we, this is what I'm proposing so that we hear, I want to hear every speaker. And so I don't want us to have like brain drain at the end and then the last are not heard well. So if we can move it to two minutes, you don't have to use the whole two minutes. If you made your point, you could be done. But two minutes and then you can come back after everybody on the list if you feel you didn't get everything out. Is that fair? Okay, good. All right, so we're going to reset this clock at two minutes so we can hear from all of the speakers who have signed up.
 Next.
 Good evening, Sydney Brown with the Clean Air Coalition Board Member. I just want to thank the Common Council for providing this hearing and listening to the people. I also want to take time to just thank the people. As many of the council members have served, this council chamber has never been this filled by residents of the City of Buffalo. So I want to say our voices do matter and I want to thank each one of you for taking time out of your schedule to be here. And as community states, you can't have community without unity. I've been a part of the steering committee since participatory budgeting has been brought to the city of Buffalo. We've worked with nine districts. There's two that we are still laboring to get residents. to participate. As Bill just mentioned, it is on a voluntary basis. We put a lot of hours in. Like I said, it has been such a rewarding process to work with people from around the city with a common interest to make our city better. Not being mindful of, I only want to make my district better, but I want to make our city better because it's just one Buffalo. It's not a matter of the nine individual districts, but we are one city. We are a city of good neighbors. And participatory budgeting helps to bring that out. Residents from all over, youth, seniors as well, has been engaged. I also want to give a shout out for Clean Air taking the lead on this initiative to bring in people from New York and other places throughout the United States to hear about this process and also just encourage people to go to participatorybudgeting.com to hear more and to check us out on Facebook to hear about meetings and things like that. But it helps us to help you to be better council members. Our government is a mindset of being a public servant. I'll say as residents, I think we've exemplified that in the time that we put into this. I want to thank the council member for making that amendment 2 years ago because it was not in the budget and it was because of your that you made that amendment for the $150,000 to be a part of that, $100,000 for the general funds and $50,000 for community programs. And I'm going to close with this because I know we're cutting it down to two minutes, but there is an annual meeting coming up. and I would like to invite council members to come out. It's very empowering to see other countries have a more democratic mindset than the United States. I was able to go, and I thought I was going to see more United States residents, but I saw people from all over the world. I invite the Common Council to come with us to that. It will be in Phoenix, I believe, this year. And put some money in the budget to send it. Thank you. Thank you. And I would say this, over this last year, we have had these chambers even more full where we had to stop people from coming in. And so that's a good thing to have people in their chambers and hearing. So thank you. Next, three speakers. Marie Malino, Katie O'Sullivan, Annie Cruz. And if there's anyone who cannot come down the stairs because of limitations, we can get a mic to you. Are you next? What's the next? Marie? Marie?
 Yes.
 Yes, ma'am. You'll state your name and address for the record. My name is Marie Malinowski. I live in Black Rock Riverside area, and I've been a bus rider for 30-something years. I know that you said that this is a different form of budget, but... I live in the city. This is all over the place. This is happening. I actually got stuck coming off the bus and into the hole, into a little bit of a watery mess. Because it's when you guys plow, which is great, but the plows leave it in front of the bus stops. I want to thank you for having this public input budget meeting THIS IS NOT JUST ONE AREA OF THE BUDGET. THIS IS THE WHOLE TIRE CITY. I HAVE SEEN SENIOR CITIZENS COMING OFF THE BUS. I'VE SEEN PEOPLE IN WHEELCHAIRS COMING OFF THE BUS. I'VE SEEN ALL KINDS OF PEOPLE. I'M A VERY PASSIONATE PERSON FOR A LOT OF FOLKS. AND, YOU KNOW, I MIGHT NOT BE THAT OLD RIGHT NOW AT THIS POINT IN TIME, BUT IN ANOTHER 40 YEARS I WILL BE. And, you know, I hate to see it happen to a lot of folks get run over by a car trying to get off the bus because it's so plowed in. What I'm asking for is the Buffalo Mayor Impact Team to hire, put into the budget to hire more impact members to, youth or anybody that could qualify for it to clean out the bus where the bus stops are and some of those air sidewalk areas and you know they you know people are looking for jobs that may be a good opportunity if you have the good thing so I'm asking for that to be a better safer place for a lot of folks thank you Hi, Katie O'Sullivan. I'm a resident of the Niagara District. First, I want to thank the Council for holding this hearing earlier in the budget cycle than in the past. I'm speaking in strong support of participatory budgeting. I served as a volunteer delegate for the PB Niagara process last year, which was supported by Councilman Rivera's discretionary funds. And through the general assemblies, developing project proposals, manning the voting stations, I saw that PB is really effective in engaging residents of all ages, all backgrounds, through direct input projects and spending that benefits their neighborhoods. I saw that PB supports an inclusive, transparent, open process. I saw that the process also harnesses the asset of our city's most most important asset which is the people, their local knowledge, their enthusiasm, priorities, and values for improving their neighborhoods. So I join others in asking the council to submit in the departmental budget request to the mayor an allocation of 1% of the general fund, or $5 million, for participatory budgeting. Over a dozen other cities across the U.S. have stepped up with ongoing commitments to PB, and I think that the City of Buffalo should do the same. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Don't worry, I'm not speaking. I'm just going to be reading for Annie, who forgot her glasses. OK. So it says, my name is Annie Cruz. I'm a board member of Push Buffalo for the past 14 years. I wanted to talk as a resident of the west side of Buffalo. The city has become the second, or sorry, the third poorest city in the east of the United States. Poor people from Buffalo did not pick that. The economy dropped. Jobs were removed. People lost their jobs on the east side and west side were the most affected areas. violence came drugs robbery of houses and people cannot afford to to pay rents There are vacant homes everywhere a lot of the houses Where many of the people live there are not livable And this problem started in the late 80s and this part of the west side in a small spot In the west side we have been able there to fix some of the houses while there are still 30 or THOUSAND VACANT HOUSES IN THE CITY. IT SAYS NOBODY HAS THE COMPASSION TO DO SOMETHING FOR MY PLACE. PUSH BUFFALO STARTED THIS PROGRAM 14 YEARS AGO WITH NOTHING, AND TODAY WE HAVE BUILT AN ORGANIZATION THAT CAN WORK WITH OTHER GROUPS TO FIX THESE ISSUES. AND WE WANT TO THE CITY OF BUFFALO TO WORK TO IMPROVE THE HOUSING CONDITIONS AND NOT SUPPORT LUXURY APARTMENTS BEING BUILT. IT IS NOT FAIR TO THE RESIDENTS OF THIS CITY. People from the areas that I mentioned are hardworking people. They're people who work at McDonald's, rent a centers, pharmacies, stores, work in housekeeping. And these people are the ones that make the rich rich. Without poor people, low income people, rich people would not be able to live or even take out their own garbage. They are being pushed out of their neighborhoods and says to lawmakers, judges, governors, mayors, and all politicians who want the poor and low-income people to leave that the city should be investing its money and resources in ways for people to stay on the west side. It says, tell me, all of you people, who is – So essentially it just says that we want the city of Buffalo's resources to be used to better the economic conditions and the housing conditions on the west side of Buffalo. Thank you. Next speaker. Excuse me. These people are the ones who have given the vote to all these people. Low-income people are the ones who work, and now they're going to push it out because rich people want to come. Yes, thank you. Next speaker. We've got to keep moving because we want to hear from everyone. Abdukadir Farah, Naseeb Adan, Isa Abdukadir. And then after those, after those, if we could just, after those three, it will be? Mariel Smith, Melvin Lee, Eliza Shriver. So if you can start getting into position so that we can continue. Thank you all for your participation. You can come right down, sir. Please, everyone, get right in position when you get to position. Hi, my name is Abdi from Pushpuff Law. Shout out to Pushpuff Law. I'm here to tell you how we could manage our $500 million. We need to get more community centers, and the more community centers we get, the more crime reduces, and we can take kids out of the street, having all these gangs and kids committing to violence. And... You guys don't have to pay the cops that much more and you guys can make more money and spend on the youth and it's a win-win for either both of us and you guys don't have to hear us coming here over and over again and keep convincing you guys to come here. But I guess we have to but and we need to stop beating the police because all they do is treat us wrong and um that's it. Thank you guys have a nice day. Who shoots? Who money? Next speaker. Hi my name is Hi, my name is Naseed and I'm from Bush Buffalo. Um... You don't have to read it, you can just say what you feel. Alright. So, the 500 million dollars, it could help other people that don't have money, like... You know how there's bad people in the streets? Bad kids, bad teens? They're not bad, but like, they're doing bad stuff because they don't have activities to do after school. Like, in Buffalo we need more sensors. We need more community centers. We need more things to do for teens to do after school. You know, all those school, like school abandons, they could turn those school abandons to community centers, activities kids could do. In the summer, people like teens have work. They work in the summer youth program. They could do that all year long. Not just during the summer. And just like I said, we need more community centers so kids can have things to do after school. Kids can not be in the streets. Kids could do better in school if they have people helping them with their homework, everything. And we can have more activities in each and every center. Every center that we get have different activities in each of them. That's all I have to say. Who streets? Who budgets? Next speaker. Hey, my name is Esau. Shout out to Pusha Buffalo! Okay, first I used to be one of them kids that used to be in the streets and all till I ran into the Grand Street Neighborhood Center. Now I don't see kids, I don't see a lot of kids around because of the center, but we need more streets like in the east side, west side, and all these other streets. Because I still see kids in the east side that still sound, that be posted on the block and all that, doing all this, because they don't have nothing to do. I used to talk to kids, be like, oh, what you doing down here? They'd be like, bro, hook me up with a job. I know a lot of people, a lot of kids that talk to me and be like, yo, you got to find me a job. I don't want to be out here no more. I'd be like, bro, just keep on. Don't stay out here. Do something. Talk to your counselor. Talk to your teachers. Do something with your life. They're like, I'm trying, bro, but I can't. I have to get this money up. I'm like, there's other ways to get your money up instead of just staying in the street. I tell them, I used to be like y'all boys, too. I'm like, hang around with me. I changed your life or we could help and do something and get you a job without just being out here. And with this money, the one we talking about and the community now, we should all use that money wisely and help out the youth, schools, streets. And instead of only having married summer youth, we should have fall, spring, winter. Because definitely winter, because we need it for winter. It's like kids out here that's cold, we could help out, shovel the snow, one car just stuff we need that money and the community is it and we should definitely use this advice and we should not only like we should hear youth voices too even though some youth be shy to talk and I know I know a lot of youth that be shy about I want this but they don't know how to speak up so now that's what I have to start doing speaking up or if I don't speak up my voice won't be heard that's it Whoo, buzz it! Next speaker. Folks, in order to get everybody heard, first of all, let me say this before I bring the next adult. I applaud the young people who came, and you're right, young man, gotta speak up. Good job. All right. Now, adults, we've got to hear all these adults. We've got to be able to hear the next speaker. Thank you so much. All right. Thank you, council members and constituents for having this hearing. One of the – my name is Mariel Smith, and I am a community organizer with Just Resisting. Just Resisting is a black and people of color community organization that – is composed of you folks from the community also art um artistically inclined people that are trying to incorporate the social justice movement what we are here to ask for is for the one percent participatory for participatory budget um of our city's 500 million budget we already know that about 28 percent has been going to the police and if Over the past several years that is about an inch for every dollar that the city budget has gotten The police budget has increased by two that that is unacceptable and this past year to up to Unarmed men have been killed by police instead of and it's not right instead of finding these killer instead of funding these killer cops and We are calling for the money to be used for actual needs of the community, such as creating shelters for the LGBTQ homeless youth, renovating community centers and making them Wi-Fi accessible hubs for the community, creating more community cooperatives, such as urban firing, community food cooperatives for food deserts that exist on the east and west side, an arts and culture cooperative, and child care collective. I'm going to touch base with... She touched it. I'm going to touch base with them very quickly. As far as the housing for homeless youth, here in Buffalo we have a large population of runaway teenagers. I don't have to go too deep into that, we know. Escaping unsafe living environments, teens that are kicked out of family homes because they identify as LGBTQ and are too old for programs such as Gateway and Longview. Thank you. That's my time? Yeah, that's your time. All right. If I can have time to come back, I will. Next speaker. And, folks, just to remind you that this is the operating budget. So it's not the capital budget that comes up later in the year in which we do buildings and grounds and streets. This is the money of how you run the city. Yes. Do we have all three named? The other two getting in place? What's your name? Good evening. I'm Elisa Schreiber. I now live in the Fillmore District. I once resided in the Niagara District. As far as your operating budget goes, I'm going to ask you to remove 3% from the police department and give Cariel Hallam-Horne... her deserved pension. On the participatory budgeting, I ask that you allocate the 1% or $5 million so the average person can decide how we want to spend our money in our city. Our youth don't have enough to do. And every time I mention why isn't this happening or why isn't that happening, I'm told, why don't you talk to City Hall? And talking to City Hall has done us no good. So if we have this extra money or this certain amount of money for us to decide how we are going to budget it, the city will be a lot better off. You want to talk about undone sidewalks, but it's a city law? I live on Newton off of Memorial and I have to walk Memorial in the street all the way to Broadway. Why? Because all that green area that belongs to the city, the sidewalk is all plowed in and it's not clear. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Next three speakers are... Lee, Rachel Manor, Jawan Cotton, Larry Scott. After those three it will be... Larry Scott, Fa Mu Nar, Jazz Frazier. All right. My name is Mohamed. I prefer if you call me Mohamed. I would like to ask this committee to put some money aside for lawful conviction. I myself have been wrongly convicted by Canisius College. I spent years in prison as a result. When I came home a few years ago, I met some of the federal judges. They put me in law school at the University of Buffalo. Okay, I own a house now. I founded an organization called the Citizens Review Committee to investigate wrongful conviction. I've been sitting here listening to a lot of people complain about what's going on in the city. And a lot of things, it seems like everybody is going in a downward spiral. And we have maybe 1,500 or 1,700 black people sitting in their holding center. It's no way that all these people can be guilty. It's mathematically... It's logically, legally impossible for all these people to be guilty. But yet, our district attorney has an 80-90% conviction rate. All the time, African Americans, Spanish, and the poor whites come before the judges and they don't go home. They sit in jail. These people should have some representation. They should have some constitutional rights. These things, the city of Buffalo, you can put. I know you. We're born together. We raised together, man. And we have a lot of injustice in this town, man. A lot of injustice. And we should work together to try and resolve some of these things, okay? We are you, man. All right? Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker, we gotta keep rolling. I know we want to applaud everyone, but we gotta keep rolling so that all the speakers are heard. Next speaker who is on the list? Yes, ma'am. If not, you're here. Hello, my name is Rachel Manor. I reside at 505 Wood Avenue and I'll be quick. I got a million things I could say, but I'll be quick. If I ever hit the lottery, I got a lot of big dreams for this city. When I first heard that you became counsel, I was a little upset and judgmental. Because a lot of times we think when Christians become part of the politics, they're part of the problem and just want to check. But then months went by, years went by, God started dealing with me that we can't just pray about stuff, we've got to be about stuff. So I would like to propose that some of the things, I'm just heartened that the East Side is neglected. I grew up on the East Side, and there's beautiful people over there. There's beautiful buildings over there. I know about architect. I'm an HGTV fan. I love beautiful buildings. Thank you. They're all empty, they need to be housed. They need to be people in there. I would like the mall to be reopened. Mainplace Mall shouldn't be dry walled up. It need to be open. Buffalo, New York sits between the communities of the Puerto Ricans and the blacks. So they're gonna get us as people whether they like it or not. We don't want to be an enemy, we want to work together. And I feel that mall was shut down because of that reason and it's very disheartening. Those can be stores, those can be young people that you've seen here today that want to experience getting experience, getting jobs, all of that. So on the corner of Main and Utica, there's five massive houses right next to the Utica station that's been laying dormant for years. 12 families could be housed there. affordable housing on the east side. They build up the canal side and they're all happy about it but it's not fair. We're neglected and we're part of this city. Buffalo is centrally located between New York City and Canada. There's no reason why we in Niagara Falls can't be the Dubai of America. So there's a lot of ideas out there and I appreciate this opportunity. I don't take it lightly. This is my very first time coming to something like this. When I heard about it, I knew I had to be here and take responsibility. Please find it in your hearts to be a blessing to people with the position God blessed you with. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name's Darren Cotton. I'm from the University District. I'm here on behalf of the University Heights Business Association, which represents about two dozen businesses and entrepreneurs in the Main Street corridor. And for about a decade, it was defunct. And in 2015, reformed as a way to advocate on behalf of our community, sponsor beautification efforts, and to also host events to drive support to local businesses And one of the things we've been diligently working on is sort of trying to recapture the magic that was holiday shopping in local commercial districts. One of those things being street lights, light displays, looking to Hurdle and Elmwood and other successful commercial corridors. One of the issues we ran into in the holidays of 2015, we had a couple volunteers test the outlets on the street lights. uh... the main street light poles and none of them works now these like those were installed as part of the main street reconstruction project about a decade ago they did work and they don't work now uh... one of the issues we've been running into uh... we've had about two years of correspondence with the department of public works and they just hasn't been enough uh... money in the repair and maintenance budget of the street lighting department uh... so i uh... You know, among other issues, the light poles hadn't been painted in nearly a decade, so they were down to bare metal. I don't know if you know, but University District has a pretty civically active population, lots of awesome people that you see here, neighbors, friends. So we actually got a group of about 50 volunteers over the summer to paint 70 light poles up and down Main Street from Kenmore Avenue to Hurdle Avenue. So I do, unfortunately, we don't have a team of specially certified electricians that can also climb the light poles and repair those outlets for us. So I do respectfully request that approximately $6,500 be included in this year's budget to repair those outlets. And just in closing, I just want to say public infrastructure lays the groundwork for private development. It is a critical partnership that allows neighborhoods and cities to thrive. A commitment from the city to its neighborhood infrastructure is an essential component to not only a more prosperous but also a more just and equitable city. Thank you again for this opportunity to share our needs and look forward to working on you with this issue. Yes, hello. My name is Jasmine Frazier. I live in the Niagara District and also I work with the community organization Just Resisting. I would like to see 1% of the $500 million budget go to participatory budgeting. It's pretty clear that everyone is interested in having their say heard. I would also like to see a cap on the police budget. I would also like to see the current police budget have 3% of that allocated to the community, specifically in community centers, to engage citizens and support families with vital services such as affordable or free childcare, after school programs, free or affordable classes for adults to bolster their chances in the job market, and provide a hub for neighborhoods across the city. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Pamuna. I'm from, I'm resident from the Northwest District. And it's very nice to meet you, my councilman, who was calling back. It's my first time to see you here, and I never knew that you was my councilman. The reason I'm here is to speak up for my people who don't speak English. I'm Korean, I speak Burmese and Korean. And there are a lot of people who need help to find a job, and I know that this $500 million is going to help a lot of people who don't speak English. Because they have a hard time when they go apply for a job, people not accept them because they don't speak English. And it gives them more depression because of the... of the gentrification that have been going on here people have to pay rent, a lot of our money is needs to stand out but we don't have enough financial resources so I want to make sure that you guys thinking about this for people who don't speak English and people who are have an old age I saw a lot of people who not like an ancient adult who don't speak English walk on the street by collect the bottle I mean they are more we can create more opportunity for them to to like to have them spend the time that more like that can help our city i mean everyone from like a young adult until old people we can help each other if we have a center we can organize our own people and then we don't even need uh we we may need a police but not a lot of police police because if we have the strong base we will will make the community and the city is beauty and strong. Thank you. Thank you. Next meeting. Next meeting. Good evening. Larry Scott, co-chair of the Buffalo Parent Teacher Organization and father of two kids at School 81. Thank you for this great opportunity to speak tonight. I've been somewhat diplomatic about the city aid allocation to Buffalo Public Schools. Last night, while educating myself on the city budget, this changed. I became irate when comparing budget appropriations to police and the Board of Education. Since 2006-07, across 12 years, aid to police has increased nine times. 42.16 million more is now appropriated to police. How many times has aid increased education? Once. Last year, only because parents advocated for it. How much was it? 500,000. Taken away from an appropriation to a strategic Buffalo school partner, say yes. So over 12 years the police have received an increased appropriation of 42.16 million, while our schools and children have received only an increase of 500,000. In 06-07 the police appropriation was 22.5 million more than for our schools and our children. Today the police receive 64.16 million more than our schools and our children. How have the police become such a priority to invest in? How are our schools and children, at the very least, not a comparable priority to invest in? Our Buffalo Public Schools are moving in the right direction, but we have a lot of work to do. Comprehensive plans and worthy initiatives are meaningless if we don't invest in them, if we don't provide the necessary staff, supports, and resources. We need the city to help advance the good work that is occurring with our strong community schools. These are not only a benefit to the educational community, but a difference maker in our neighborhoods and for our families and taxpayers who are unaffiliated with Buffalo schools. We need the city to help increase staff in music, art, libraries, and mental health to levels that our surrounding suburban districts and children receive. We need the city to invest in programs that initiate... I'm sorry? You have two minutes. That's two minutes? Yeah. Can I just close up? Close up. We need the city to invest in restorative practices in our schools and our surrounding communities. And we need the city to assist and invest in addressing significant transportation needs for our Buffalo students. I have much more to say on that, but I'll just close up. If the concern is that the city council doesn't have control over that aid, I suggest then creating a committee with the Board of Education, parents, community, and the City Council that provides input and oversight over that aid. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Next speakers. Next speakers. Next speaker. And I don't think that there's a council member here that wouldn't like to have control over where those earmarks are going. So as we talk about this, there may be some move to keep pushing to say city government should have some say over where those dollars are going and that they don't just go away. Thank you. Alright, next three. Chiquita Ray, Sarah Wooten, Kian Lee. Alright, those are going to be the next three. And then after those three, it will be? Josie Diebolds, Kaweah something? Yep, we know who it is, right? Fardosa Omar. You know the name? What is it? You want to spell it? Kaweahjumare. Alright, and after that? Pardusa Amar. All right. Next three. Hi, I'm Shakita Redden. I am an organizer with Just Resisting, and I live in Niagara District. I'll be very short. Essentially, I just really want to say that our community's priorities should not be policing, right? The budget, if you look at the budget as a moral document, it shows what we actually are believing in, and that is the over-policing of our people, specifically people of color. in our communities, and I think that we should be putting our money, the 1% into participatory budgeting and focusing on community issues such as putting our money into increased community services that would include summer youth positions, but not just all year round, right? Like, increase the number of positions that we actually could have for people who actually need them. I know a lot of young people are contributing to their families with this money that they're helping or actually buying their own school clothes, right? Like I had to do something very similar when I was a kid. I also think we need to be putting more resources into community centers, keeping our libraries open, having hubs. Thank you. actually getting people to work so that our communities end up being safer and we don't actually have to be paying for police because research shows that when we actually increase the money into our services that communities actually are safer and not the illusion of them being safer because we're having more police. Thank you. Trevor side next speaker hi my name is Sarah and I'm the policy analyst with the partnership for the public good and a resident of the Niagara District yeah I just wanted to echo the ask for the 1% of the city budget to go toward TV it's clear that everybody has a lot of ideas they're great ones and people obviously are able to control this process I'd also like to echo some of our partners' asks, such as Marie from Be True asking for funding for the NFPA shelter maintenance. Also Ms. Barr from the Community First Alliance and everybody who asked for community centers in their neighborhood. That seems like a pretty basic need. I think there's another kind of need that has been discussed in a lot here, right, which is affordable green housing for people in the City of Buffalo. We've heard time and time again that people are no longer able to afford their rent. that people are, you know, not just the rent, but also the utilities and homes because they're so old because they don't have insulation, things like that. So one possible solution would be to create a cabinet-level position, which would be the sustainability director of Buffalo. Okay. And that position could oversee city funding to add to the limited federal and state funding that goes toward weatherization funds right now. That could be in the form of a revolving loan fund or something else. Also adding city funding... for the creation of additional community land trusts in the city of Buffalo. This is something that has obviously worked in a lot of other cities, something that we're working on now, and we hope to see more of those across the city, but it does come with extensive resource needs, right? And in most cities, it's only worked when the city provides something in the form of land, in the form of funds, things like that. And so to oversee these initiatives and others that would, you know, increase sustainability within the city itself and also to expand affordable housing opportunities, we would ask that this cabinet-level position is created. Good evening. My name is Keon Lee. I'm the chairman of the Sex Offender Registry Awareness Task Force. And since 2015, the task force has been diligently stomping the pavement to make the city of Buffalo a safer place for our children. Just last month, we had three attempted abductions and one abduction. This is unacceptable. Our children are vulnerable out here. Our first step was for the notification, the lack of notification. They wasn't notifying the residents in the city of Buffalo who these sex offenders are, when they're being released, and when they're being located. Since the task force has been formed, we now have the registry list inside the four parent centers in the schools, so parents can go to those schools and access that registry list. Since then we have expanded to where now we're we're into prevention and treatment now We're getting a lot of people in the city of Buffalo a lot of treatment where we're doing a lot of prevention with the help of a few of the council members of president council president the brother here Wingo, the brother of Rasheed Wyatt. They're locking arms with us and we're starting to get the job done. But we're only touching like 8% of the city. This city is big and there's a lot of children here. The Child Advocacy Center did over a thousand, they did over a thousand intakes last year in 2017 of children being molested and abused. This is unacceptable. This is unacceptable and we pray, man, that you guys really fight it in your hearts to really lock arms with the task force so that we can continue to get the job done and spread throughout the city. It's not one district. We can't do it just in Madston District or just in Ellicott District or just in the University District. We need everybody to pull together. Our children are vulnerable out here. They hurting. We need your help. Please. Next speaker. Thank you. My name is Josie Diebold. I'm a community member of University Heights and I'm a member of CIRD. And I'm just really grateful to be here among so many dynamic residents of the city of Buffalo. And I'm here because I believe, as has been stated already, that we need to stop increasing the ever-expanding police budget, which has increased 45% since 2006. And instead, as has been stated so eloquently already, we need to fund community resources, we need to fund education, And these are line items that rarely see increases, and that's unconscionable. And the police budget should go into participatory budgeting so that people can decide how to spend that money. Thank you. Next speakers. Want to reread the name? Okay, they're coming. And while you're coming down, read the next speakers after that. Brian Overland, Candy Hayes, Brian Hornkamp. All right. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Okay, so $500 million. That's quite a lot of money. First of all, I am requesting interpretation services. My people, first of all, they don't speak much English, okay? And we came here as immigrants, as refugees. They don't understand the English language as we young people do. Because we came here, being young, we got the privilege to be able to learn the English language, but we are forgetting the folks that do not speak, and if they can't speak it, they don't have that much privilege. They cannot do much. So I'm really very much requesting the interpretation services for my people, Somali, but not just my people, but Somali Bantu and Burmese. Burmese people and you know I'm talking about the minorities they don't they don't they don't have they don't know so they need help we need we need to help them so 500 million dollars can do a lot for us in this in this community I am from the Niagara District but I'm representing all of Buffalo because we are all one city Just a few weeks ago, I believe, we took a trip to Albany and we had the chance to be able to speak with Paul Ryan. And he said that this city gets, every ten years I believe, it gets like a budget amount of money to help with the school system. However, that's not enough. It is not right to be investing in the cops and the police when young people need that money. I don't, it doesn't make any sense. The police put us more into the system. nothing for us if anything they create hatred if anything they create fear who here feels who what what does that reveal when it comes to the police please tell me nobody i'm sorry all right your time is up thank you next week thank you thank you yes let's hear the next speaker please yes you it's you Hello, my name is Fardosa Omar. This is my first time speaking in front of everybody. So right now I want to talk about jobs. Like we need jobs. We have a lot of adults that don't have no jobs, including myself. We don't have to go to another city just to work over there. We need work jobs in Buffalo, New York. We don't need to catch two buses just to get to work, leave our house early just to get to work on time. We need more jobs. We need more community services. We need more, like instead of, Summer youth, we need more jobs throughout the year. And we need more activities for kids that comes out from school instead of being in the street selling or whatever they're doing. We need more jobs to keep them off from the streets. If there's jobs, they will not even be in the streets. Instead of robbing people houses, they will have their own money to buy them their self what they need. so my main point over here is that we definitely need a job buffalo new york needs a job instead of going to lakwana or tauwanda or all the other cities we need job in where we live in at right now thank you thank you next speaker next speaker and your name's already been called yeah you hear me yeah candy hayes was going to speak which found out that some of the subjects you want to talk about wouldn't be appropriate for this uh this hearing so she asked if i would speak uh as Okay, but you can't take her place. We can sign you up, but people who got here, you know, earlier and signed up, I don't want to... Well, we came in together. No, no, no. Next speaker. You can hang out for a minute. I want to be fair, and you hang out, but I want to be fair to those, because some people came before the meeting to sign up. So I just want to be fair to them. Okay. Speaker? Hi, my name is Brian Overland. I'm a resident of 440 Plymouth Avenue in the Niagara District. and I'm a member of the Buffalo chapter of Showing Up for Racial Justice. In April 1967, Martin Luther King said that a nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual death. And year after year, we spend more money on military defense through our police while our school budget stagnates and actually doesn't even meet inflation. So in effect, we are defunding the schools to give more and more to the police. A 45% increase over 12 years is hard to imagine, but when it comes to police, people expect it. They don't bat an eye. Imagine the headlines. Buffalo increases school funding by 45% over 12 years. That's the community I want to live in. The police have had their chance. They have not really done a lot to help crime. The unsolved homicides, homicides in Buffalo go unsolved at a rate twice that of the national average while research shows that a 10 percent increase in male graduation rates leads to 20 percent increase or decrease in the homicide rates. So that's my first point. Please stop expanding the police budget and increase the school budgets. Second point is for participatory budgeting. Like you can see the people's response to this meeting. We want to be here. We want to be involved. We know what we need, and we want to tell you and be part of the process. And doing that will not only lead to better programs, but will lead to more community trust. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Council President. I'm very appreciative of this hearing. Two quick points. So the first is that if we look at city charter, Chapter C, Article 20, states that on February 1st of every year, every city department is required to submit its proposed budget to the budget office for the mayor's review. Now, Common Council is both a branch of government, but it is also a city department. And so what I am requesting is that I want 1% of the budget, or $5 million, be decided upon for participatory budget. Now, the head of the administrative unit for the Common Council per charter is Council President. So, Council President, I am asking you, and I am asking for the support of your colleagues, to include in your department's budget request that is submitted on May 1st to include a line item for $5 million for citywide participatory budgeting The second point is about how the budget actually reports spending. So if you look at your summary statements and graphs in the budget document, you'll see that fringe benefits are accounted for separately. Fringe benefits are $147 million of a $500 million budget. So what the community has to do is we have to go back through the general appropriation summary by detail and look at every single department and add back in those fringe benefit costs to get the true cost of a department. So when I hear folks using numbers like, you know, the increase to police spending, the $135 million you spent on police, that is the combined total of fringe benefits. and the existing appropriation. So for future budget hearings to increase community communication between the council, we really need to look at how the budget is reporting those items to make sure that as community members we're seeing the true cost of departments because those fringe benefits are part of the true cost of a department. And that's what I've got. Thank you. Next speaker. Next speakers. Rufo Fields, Natasha Soto, Jose Pizarro. And then the three after that. Eddie Jones. Grace Karambizi. Betty Jane Grant. All right, whoever's at the mic, we can go start right away. Hello, good evening. I don't need to say much more than has already been said already. My name is Natasha Soto. I'm a... member of the Niagara District. I work for Clean Air and member and work for Just Resisting. I want to thank for this momentous hearing this evening. It took four years of organizing work to move the council to let citizens decide on the budget before the budget is drafted and printed so thank you so much. Right, residents are here tonight because they want to make decisions on how their money is spent, right? Our tax dollars contribute to the budget, and we should be able to decide how that money is moved and spent and what gets put in our neighborhoods. And so my curiosity, and I'm wondering, Council President, if you can answer this, what happens after tonight? What happens after we tell you ideas, after we ask for a more democratic process? What happens between now and May when that budget is drafted? The mayor will submit the budget and the council could make decisions after the hearing. I can't answer that until after we've had the hearing. That's why we're here to hear from you.
 Great. So can I then also ask for more community involvement before the mayor puts a draft budget? You can ask for anything, but I'm not going to stop every time to answer the question. You need to make your statement before the council.
 Sure. My statement is that there is more community involvement between now and May before the mayor drafts his budget, so that's what community members voiced here today we can actually see on paper in black and white. Next speaker. Yeah, blessed love, family. I want to say that it's good to hear people coming out and speak It's even better if the councilmen actually listen, and it's actually even better if people are actually heard. If you're interested in public comment, I suggest that you create a 30-day public comment period before budgets are actually implemented. That will give people actually a chance to see the budget they're talking about and make their own comment, an informed comment as exactly what that budget is. I think we need to have stronger education for all. I think that the access channels, channel 19, 20, 21, and 22, need to be more equally dealt with. They're supposed to be public, educational, and governmental access, but the way it's actually prioritized is government, education, and then public. We need to have a review or a hearing on the services, the spectrum services, to find out whether they're actually doing what they say they're going to do, they're the great business that they say they are. We need to have citywide development, not just downtown development. We need to have regular public hearings on various subjects. It's great to hear the public's voice, but they need to be happening on a regular basis, maybe based on the 311 calls, the things that are most important, urgent for the city, like potholes. We need to bring back the at-large representation, not just have it council district by district. We need to get back to electing the council president. We need to right-size city government. The city is growing. We need to right-size it so that we actually have the right government. You say this is the operating budget. Is that 500 million? What is the actual capital budget? How much is that? And I want to give a shout out to the gentleman who spoke about the wrongly convicted. In this country, which talks about freedom and justice for all, how can we ever tolerate anyone being wrongly convicted and not having that corrected? Thank you, sir. We need to make place for the youth. And as I finish up, I say it's great that you let people speak. It's more important that you listen, and it's more important that the people be heard. Thank you, sir. Next speaker. Hello, Councilman. My name is Antonio Jose Pizarro, and I wanted to say to have 1% to PB, and I wanted to say something that I want more money for the education, for every right for every kid, because I've been seeing when I was in high school, I went to Olmstead, and I got expelled for six months. doing so, like they said that I was not doing good. And they never gave me a chance. But I see every kid getting kicked out of school and living on the streets. And I see my best friend, he is in the jail right now. He went through all of the houses he went through. And I see everybody going through a struggle. and that i want one percent taken away from the police department and put it to the towards the education that kids need to actually have a better future and a better generation for buffalo new york because i see all the other places thank you next speaker my name is grace karamizzi and i live in the delaware district And I was born in Rwanda, one of those countries, and I immigrated here in the United States about 14 years ago. I am one of the leaders of the Buffalo Immigrant Leadership Team, and I'm here to advocate for education. I'm sorry, more funding to go towards education. That is... A U.S., an American philosopher who say education is not preparation of life, education is life itself. And we can all agree that because of access to equitable education, we are here and can be able to speak and advocate for other people. I'm glad of so many initiatives that are being put in place in the Buffalo Public Schools, but those initiatives require money. I'm glad to see things such as restorative practices, trauma-informed care. Again, we need more money to be allocated to those programs or to the education in all. We cannot keep working under the same budget that was like 10 years ago. because education changes and if you want to give the chance to the student in the Buffalo Public School to be able to compete on the international level to be able even to compete in the United States alone or to be able to compete with the student within the The suburbs of Buffalo, we need to put more money towards education. I believe that with education we can avoid many problems that we run into. We can avoid to have so many police officers on the street if you put the money where it needs to be, which is education. Again, I'm going to repeat this quote, which was written by John Dewey, who was an educator. He said, education is not preparation of life, education is life itself. So please put more money towards education. Thank you. Next speaker. Next speaker. Thank you. Good evening, everyone. I'd like to say thank you to the council members for holding this event. For those who do not know who I am, I am Eddie Ice Cream Jones. I am a community employee. I represent my community, which is the city of Buffalo, because Buffalo, as a friend of mine has said, is only as big as a couch. We're all just fighting for the remote, and we thank the council member for letting us take control of the remote. I am here to represent right now The students that are coming out of high school, I am here to represent the refugees that are here in our city. I speak the common language of all languages. My language is tools. I am here, and I'm asking that the... Council members please take 1% from the police department financial budget and invest it into getting training centers to teach our youth a secondary trade or career because a lot of students are right now trying to pay their bills which are basically involved college funds. And instead of making money to make a living, they have no secondary trade and this is what I do. What I'm asking is that the city council please take the training centers to get also qualified. Out of the suburbs and put them in the communities that need them on the East side, the West side, the North side and the South side of the Buffalo in order for a notifying feature to keep building places like the. the hospital area and do renovations like they're doing all these great construction work downtown and all the places in Buffalo and now they're starting in Central Park. There's nobody that looks like me or from any of the nations that are represented here in the city of Buffalo, which is very diverse on those job sites because they cannot get to the training centers in order to apply for those jobs. So again, I am asking that the council look into putting training centers, especially in the building trades, because a house does not take care of itself. It takes a person to take care of a house. And while the Honorable Betty Jean Grant is coming to the mic, can you name the next three? Sean Scott, Sam Herbert, Akia H., Good evening. Good evening. Thank you for having this meeting. And, Council President, I commend you for being the council member of all of Buffalo, not just the Ellicott District. I'm here to ask for 1 percent of the budget to go towards the revitalization of distressed commercial strips like Jefferson Avenue, Broadway, Bailey Avenue, Sycamore Street, and many on the Lower West Side. would go greatly to fund a sign and storefront facade program where there would be no matching, there would be an outright grant. Can it be done? Yes, it can. We did that in 19, in 2000, 2001, with our discretionary funding. We did that. The Main Street Initiative was a great project, but you had to have a grant writer, you have to have technical assistance, you have to have 50% of the money that had to be used up front. So for people on the east side of Buffalo, it was not good for them. I commend the Parkside Candy and I commend the Theodore and Bailey for having a fantastic writer based out of Gloria Parks. I commend them. I commend Council Member Wyatt for making that happen. But for those on Jefferson Avenue, that didn't happen. We had the closing of a check cashing place at East Utica and Jefferson that had been in business, the black owned operator, for 53 years. It's closed. DG's hasn't reopened. The Cricut store moved. How long can a business stay on Jefferson Avenue and other commercial strip with no customers? We closed the check cash in place. That shopping at Topps Market is going to be decreased. The use of the library is going to be decreased. So when they went to get their check cash, they used to stop for other initiatives. That won't happen. So we have to really do all we can that we won't lose those commercial strips. I commend Canal Side. That is beautiful. We're world-class in recreation. We should be world-class in economic development. And I want to finish with the $15 an hour minimum living wage jobs. That's good, but it's also going to decrease employment opportunity. You go to Delavan and East Delavan Grider, the restaurant there, it is modernized, but they're going to use 50% less workers in doing so. So as we increase the minimum wage, What are we doing to ensure that those who are working will not be laid off? Thank you very much. Thank you. Next speaker. Next speaker. Sir. Yes, my name is Sean Scott. I live on the west side, and I've got a great counselor sitting right here. That's right into that mic, sir, so we can hear you. He's my neighbor, and so I can catch him walking his dog and ask him some questions. Hi. I wish I had looked at this earlier, I would have changed my whole focus. I'm an educator. I've lived in Buffalo, and I've been coming to Buffalo before since the early 40s. And I've watched it grow, and I've lived in 18 countries. And my favorite city is Buffalo. I always come back to Buffalo. I've lived on the west side for more than 30 years now. I'm a school teacher, social worker, and I couldn't get a job in education here. I was overqualified in the 80s when I graduated from Buff State. I was overqualified and I was the wrong color. And that's what I was told by the school board. So I ended up teaching in the library English second language. I taught, I could sub at all the schools, BOCES. My education is in English. trades. And I didn't come to even speak on that. But looking at the budget, I thought, wow. I guess my pet peeve, I think Buffalo's great. And it's getting greater and greater and greater. And I really love living here. There's many, many opportunities. I think what is needed is people's availability to what opportunities are around. There are so many that are free. and easy to get to, but so many people never even heard of them. I've been teaching English, second language, at the library for 15 years, and people never even hear of it. They didn't know you could go get free English for minorities and immigrants coming to the country. I'm an immigrant. I'm from Canada. And I love the city. I guess my... My pet peeve is you've done all this work for bicycles and riders, which is great, but they haven't done anything for the riders to teach them, hey, you should have a light on the bike and don't wear black at night. All right. Because you can't see in that bike. Thank you so much. Next speaker. Good evening. My name is Sammy Warford. This evening I am addressing you, Mr. Chairman, and the Common Council members, as the chairman of the Coalition to Save Martha Luther King Park. Mr. Chairman, I would like to present to you a pre-emba and a copy of a petition that was kicked off yesterday on Dr. King's national holiday. calling for the removal of that black head in MLK Park and replacing it with an enlarged, life-size, identical replica of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King. The Coalition, we kicked off the project to correct a wrong. I ask everyone that's in the chambers who ever been to MLK Park Do that black head look like Dr. King? No. I would like if someone can give, ma'am, if you can pass this on to the chairperson. Council staff.
 Mr. Chairman, is somebody going to come just get this for me? They're coming. Keep going, Sam, because your time is up. All right. If you have anything else. Quickly, Mr. Chairman, what is, this is, the $500 million is a budget that's already in place and there's no room for adding things on. The reason I'm asking the question is this. I would like to present to you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Common Council, a estimate of a budget that is gonna be needed Once this petition process is finished and we collect the 10,000 signatures from residents from Buffalo, Erie County, and the state of New York, I would like to go on record asking the Common Council, can y'all, a item in place, anticipating... a proposed amount of money that will be needed from the City of Buffalo to help pay for this new structure and statue of Dr. King. Okay, so I want to answer your question. This isn't that budget that would be... A capital budget item.
 Okay. We are we are this is the operating budget of the city. Okay. How we run the city. So we would not be able to do that in this budget. Okay. Thank you for the clarification. And I just wanted to add all to those young folks that spoke. Sam, your time is up. I'm sorry. My time is up? Yes. Let me just say this. It was up after you passed it off to those folks. But I'd like to put some money in the budget so there'd be seasonal work for those young folks. Thank you, sir. Next speaker is right there. Thank you, sir. I'm speaking only to the city budget. My name is Akua Kamu Harris, and I'm speaking to the amount of the budget that goes to the police department. The Urban Institute in September 2011 did a study of three cities, Chicago, Washington, and Baltimore. In those cities they had instituted more surveillance cameras, and they had also built a central surveillance center to monitor those cameras. We need that system here in Buffalo. We need to stop thinking that cameras are Henderson, are hinder our lives in some way because they do not. We're into the 21st century. Crime is rampant in our neighborhood and I'm tired of young people dying and I'm tired of going to funeral. When I know the cameras placed in the proper place with the right type of surveillance, centers could help us resolve some of these this issue in our community. The rest of it is up to the people, but we need to know where the guns are coming from and we need to see the crimes when they're happening. And so I want some of that police budget money, $10 million of it, taken out to build that system and put these cameras in our cities, in our communities where crime is so high. We need it. The other thing is the city budget is not enough. I'm appalled at the fact that our budget last year was only $500 million. Maybe that's why they never had budget here. Because Rochester and Syracuse budget is almost $50 million more than ours. This year, Syracuse is asking for $700 million for their city budget. Rochester is increasing their amount that they're requesting. Naturally, just like the year before, they won't get all of it, but they will get a large sum of that money. Where are we at in asking for our budget, and where is the money of our people? Where is that money that we're living off of $500 million in this city? What is going on? Because we are the second largest city in New York State. Rochester, North Syracuse should have a bigger city budget than we have. So we need to, I want someone to investigate that. And we want, not only that, I want some transparency in the budget. When you go online, you can't even figure out what the darn budget is or how the money is being spent. And that's disgraceful. We've got to change that. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Speaker? Lucy Velaz? Rose Jones, Aaron Kralikowski. And I will say that there was a time when there wasn't a city budget online. And we worked very hard to get those things online, including hearings like this, to be able to hear. So we're not all the way there yet, but we are much better. But I agree in hearing that I'd like to see some changes so it's easier to understand. Yes. Okay. It's going to be filed with the council. The whole city will see it. And it'll be online. Next speakers. Move quickly, speakers, please. Let's name the next six. Victoria Gweet, Althea Davis, Bridge Rausch, and Lois Young. All right. Whoever is at the mic first. Hi, I'm here in support... She's got to give you a name. My name is Rose Jones, and I'm here to support the Sex Offender Task Force, and I'm here to talk about how good the task force for the community and how hoping to protect our children from molesters and sex offenders is very important for our community, and that we should be here to protect our youth. We're so busy worrying about everything else, but people don't understand that damaged children turn into damaged adults. And we lean on our children to support our future, and if our future is damaged, what future do we have to look forward to? So we have to find ways to support, we have to find ways to protect our youth, find ways to get programs and programs. things in the community that's going to be safe for them and for them to feel like it's safe for them to go on the streets, for parents to feel like it's safe for their kids to go to school without getting abducted in places as a bus stop. A lot of parents have to go to work and not able to sit at that bus stop with their child and they have to know that it's safe for them to get on that bus. And if we don't have programs or systems to make sure that doesn't happen, how can we be okay with sending our child to the bus stop, how can we be okay with being, sending our children into this world and if our child is, do become a victim of this situation, what is in place for them to help them grow, to help them overcome these obstacles that is there, that's happening to them internally. So we as a city need to find ways to prevent this, and if it did happen, we have to find ways to help them grow. Because, like I said before, our children is our future, and damaged children turn to damaged adults. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Aaron Krolikowski, and I live at 947 Delaware. I'm a resident of the Ellicott District. Information is the raw material of the knowledge economy and education and commerce are increasingly conducted via text message, social media, and via the internet. Even more, it's become all clear to everybody that digital divides and access to the internet disproportionately and negatively impact low-income neighborhoods and communities of color. I'm here today to advocate for approximately $50,000 to be allocated to the development of a strategic plan for deploying public Wi-Fi across the City of Buffalo and to allocate up to $2.5 million over five years for technology and other expenses related to the expansion of free public Wi-Fi in the City of Buffalo. And I have one other point, the City has already seen success with projects along the way. along Main Street and a new project along Jefferson. That's Buffalo Connect and the Jeffrey Wi-Fi projects. Each project involved public-private partnerships with substantial sponsorship from the private sector. And given this interest from our local commercial leaders, the city may want to consider using any funding related to a project of this sort in the form of matching grants to incentivize that private investment in our city's commercial corridor. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Lois Young. I'm representing the University District Black Club Coalition and the Children Shall Lead. So can I give a round of applause for those individuals from the University District? Black Club Coalition. So we thank you, rah rah. It's part of your two minutes. That's all right. We just want you to know that we're present. We're concerned about our city. I see that there's a $500 million budget and I just want to know or just want to request and let you know that we're interested in that $500 million. We have many concerns on the university area, quality of life issues and I see that some of our issues fall in line with what it is that this budget is deemed for. So when some of our issues, and I asked some of the members of our meeting that thankfully come every Tuesday or the fourth Tuesday, third Tuesday of every month, and some of those issues were plowing the driveways. They plow the driveways, and they plow it. I mean, the individuals... shovel their walk, then the city comes around and puts the snow back in the driveway for our seniors. That is an issue, that is a concern. These are quality of life issues. We have traffic issues, traffic bumps. We would like some money to be improved or to include civic engagement. gentrification, the houses being poured by the slumlords, we leave inspectors and then they leave the area and our area does not look as well as we would like for it to represent. The people in our neighborhood are concerned about our area. There's issues with the pouring of the asphalt in the streets and and just pouring it rather than just packing it on top. We would like money to be given to community resources and we are here just really to let you know because I don't know how this thing works, but I want you to know that we concerned and we will be at every meeting and anything that we of a concern, we're gonna bring it to the table. So we thank you for the time that you have given us and I also would like to give a shout out to Carol Horn. Thank you for what it is that you did. Thank you. Next speaker. My name is Brid Rauch. I live on the west side. Thank you. As a member of the public, I first want to thank the Common Council for this hearing, and I hope that the public will continue to be able to offer feedback to the regulatory budget and process. Second, I want to say that the means to budget is a moral document which speaks to the priorities of the administration. With that context, the city budget with the majority of funds being spent on policing speaks to an unhealthy city. We should first and foremost seek to eliminate reasons people turn to criminalized activities. We need to prioritize attacking causes of poverty. We should also question which activities are being criminalized. Our city is literally arresting impoverished people for fishing for food. Third, I want to point out how dangerously underfunded our city-owned community centers are. This past summer, I worked at a community center where the employees made $9.70 an hour. They were fleeting to offices and public spaces every time it rained. And during heat waves, we actually had to inform residents that we were unable to serve as an emergency cooling center because we lacked AC. When questioned what was taking so long for the city to fix the AC, we were informed that there were only two HVAC repair people employed by the city for repairing all the city-owned buildings. On top of all the woes the city is currently confronting, we are also destined to climate change. Underfunding and neglecting our community centers is putting people's lives in jeopardy. I'd like to encourage flexible funding for CBOs, help families keep their homes and address gaps and the lack of funding from everything from foundation repairs, ADA adaptation, and for house planning. Finally, speaking as a member of the Buffalo Transit Riders United, we need citywide municipal sidewalk snow plowing. Impassable sidewalks are a violation of ADA, make it difficult to ride transit, especially when those of us trying to catch the bus have to climb over massive piles of snow. And snow shoveling efforts, excuse me, it slows firefighting efforts because hydrants need to be shoveled out. The present approach to fines imposed on residents is punitive and hurts low-income disabled people the most. Please expand the municipal sidewalk snowplowing pilot to citywide and make it permanently part of the budget. Thank you. Next, speakers. Oh, let me hear it. Okay. Hello. My name is Victoria Geist. I'm a woman elect, and I'm with the district. My main concern is that we should be putting aside some money for cuts. If anybody's been watching the news federally, they are coming. And the state and the county will also feel the pinch, as noted by Cuomo's budget proposal today. Now, I really think we should be focusing on that. All of the other ideas are great, but there's... Form is already here, and a lot of it will go to healthcare, come from healthcare, that is, and a lot of other social services. Now, some of us will be able to cope with those cuts, But our community is not measured by those of us who don't need the help, but rather by how much help and care we give those who do need it. Stock up and be prepared. Thanks very much. Thank you. Hi, my name is Carrie O'Horn. And I want to propose that the police budget be splashed in half. and half of it goes to the Board of Education and the other half to the community. Give us a chance to work with our children and our people. With the police department, what some people don't realize is that one arrest creates a lot of jobs in the justice system, one of them being programs within the justice system. So if you put those programs into the community, then we can work with, our people who we know have issues because we're out in the community. And that way the police, they won't have to have contact with the police. That's it. Thank you. All right. I think we got to the last one. Thank you, Ms. Horn. And again, I want to thank the community. This is a first. And obviously by the turnout, this was, to me, this was successful in hearing from the people. You elect us. We need to hear from you. We will forward and consider everything that has come before us and forward a copy of this meeting to the administrative branch for consideration. Thank you.