Okay, we are live. Five, four, three, two, one. Council Member Bowman? Here. Council Member Farrelletto? Here. Council Member Golombek? Here. Council Member Nowakowski? Here. Council President Pridgen? Here. Aki? Majority Leader Rivera? Present. President Pro Temp Scanlon? Present. Council Member Wingo? Present. Council Member Wyatt? Present.
 Here, thank you. Corm is present. I stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Council President.
 I had hoped to have a friend, City Bishop, join us to pray this morning, but we talked and he has three funerals this week. And I know that for many of us, the feeling coming into what was the Happy New Year where we wished each other just a few days ago has started in some painful ways. Yesterday, Deb and I had a close ministry friend whose wife passed away, and that's
 12 in the last 10 weeks for us. And I know for some of you, the pain is real. And for many in our city, the pain is real. The scripture that I oftentimes refer to in coming into a new year is one of my very favorites. In Philippians chapter 3, verses 13 and 14, Paul writes, I have not achieved it, but I focus on this one thing, forgetting the past and looking forward to what lies ahead.
 I press on to reach the end of the race and receive the heavenly prize for which God, through Christ Jesus, is calling us. Forgetting what's behind. That's the goal in coming into a new year. Happy New Year and resolutions and the reorganization of the council last week. But what do we do when the residue of 2021 continues into the new year?
 How do we look forward when there is pain in the recent past and pain that continues into the present? And for each of us with hearts of compassion for our city, love for our city, the thing that unites every one of you nine members of the council is you all love Buffalo. You express it in different ways, different personalities, different types, but every one of you loves this city and when we see a city hurting, a city grieving,
 precious citizens that are caught up in that. And then it hits our home as well. How do we fight through? How do we be the public servants that we're called? And how do we serve hurting people? So today there'll be business to conduct many things that are essential within the realm of your offices as council members.
 But if we lose track of the people that we're called to serve and the love of Buffalo that manifests as we love on people who are Buffalonians, we can complete business, but we won't complete the task, I believe, that we're assigned to complete. It's a bigger task.
 Some of the things in the past we're going to have to let go of and forget, but it's because we together are called to love a city and to serve it with everything that's in us. Would you bow with me in prayer?
 Father, you know that for the bishop who is going to lead us in prayer today, his heart is heavy and his plate overly full with three funerals this week. And other pastors, even those that are here in City Hall, are feeling that same pressure and pain and hurt. And it's hard to get the residue of 2021 off when funerals continue into 2022. Thank you.
 Lord, you know the love that we have for the city that you've planted us in. We're planted here to bloom, planted here to make it better, planted here to produce fruit, good, positive fruit that remains. Lord, as we serve this city, as we serve you, as we answer the call, I pray that you'd allow us to be life speakers, life givers,
 life sharers with those that need a word of life communicated to them in a hard time.
 Lord, today as business takes place, necessary city business, necessary to the functioning and appropriate functioning of our precious city. Lord, beyond that, help us to be able to love herding Buffalonians in each of our districts, each of our neighborhoods. Let us be dispensers, Lord, of your goodness, grace, mercy, and love. I ask in your precious name. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner.
 Council members, anyone more? Council member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I ask if we can dedicate this council meeting in the memory of Ron Brown. Ron Brown was very well known in City Hall and around the city of Buffalo. Just a awesome, awesome man. I didn't know he attended Elam.
 And when my cousin was telling me that he would be out there shouting during service about praising God, you wouldn't think that when you see this dapper brother that,
 He's that type of guy. But he was a real good guy, a very encouraging guy. I'm one of the most dapper people you'll ever meet. I wore my bow tie. I can never be as dapper as him. But in his memory today, I wanted to wear my bow tie. I'm just asking the citizens of Buffalo to keep his family in prayer.
 Because as Dr. Warner said, COVID has affected a lot of folks and it's hurt a lot of people. And at this point in time, I really would like us to pray sincerely for his family. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to honor Michelle Johnson who passed, who is a beloved member of the Fillmore District, and she was a creator of Buffalo Dreamweavers that still is in existence today. And every winter twice, usually in December, one in February, they line the corner of Broadway and Bailey with hats, coats, gloves, scarves.
 And they do it in a way where you feel like you're shopping and that you're not being given something or that you're a burden to someone but it creates a existence where you can walk and talk and feel like you're shopping for yourself and your family, especially in Buffalo winters which are so harsh and so cold and
 I actually had the opportunity of talking to Michelle a few years ago when I first got elected. I found myself in her car talking to her and getting to know her. And she told me how she created this to channel her pain of losing her son. Because the pain of losing a child was so great, she didn't know if it was going to
 consume her and take her, but she tried to take that pain and by serving others and that just showed the true character and quality of who she was. And I know that her board of directors at Buffalo Dreamweavers will keep her memory alive and she'll always be someone very special to the Fillmore District. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Council Member, Golombet.
 Thank you Mr. President. My former neighbor Timothy Austin lost a battle with an aggressive form of cancer last week or so ago. I just want to make a little aside here. His brother was one of the firefighters that was killed in the explosion in I believe it was December of 1982 in downtown Buffalo.
 I remember, you know, the family, the Austin family very, very well. But Timothy Austin lost his battle with cancer, and he's going to leave a big hole in the hearts of many people in the Riverside neighborhood, especially his wife, Shelly, and his daughter, Victoria, and his son, Jake, who I got to be very, very good friends with.
 over the past several years. So my heart and condolences go out to the Austin family. Council Member Riviere. Mr. Chair, I'd like to place in memoriam the name of Smiler Greeley. Him and his family arrived in Buffalo in August 22nd of 2007.
 And since the time he arrived, he became actively involved with the refugee and immigrant community. He was the founder, one of the founders of the Quran Society, which he served on the board for a number of years. He also proudly served and worked with many other not-for-profit organizations such as Jericho Road, Push Buffalo. His community will definitely miss him. And we remember him. Thank you.
 Thank you. Did I miss anyone? I'd also like to join in remembering Ron Brown, who was the executive secretary and CFO for Buffalo Sewer. Everybody, I think, in City Hall knew Ron, always speaking to everyone. Councilmember Wyatt mentioned his bow tie.
 Ron walked past me one day and he had a very nice tie on. I always said to Ron, you can put together colors better than anybody I know. And he had this nice tie and I said, Ron, you know, I really liked that tie. And Ron loosened the tie up and I was like, no, I'm just, and he handed it to me and gave me that tie that day. I'll never forget it. I was coming out of the elevator. It was just the type of guy
 Ron was. He was also an accountant and helped many people and organizations in the city of Buffalo. A dear friend of our mayor, and so our hearts go out to his family, to the mayor of our city,
 and to all of his friends, which are too many to count. And of course, to his church family, the Elam Christian Fellowship, who actually their pastor was going to be on today. And so that's weighing heavy on this city. For all of those names that have been mentioned, and again, for any man or woman who has given their life for the freedom of our country or any country,
 in this world we pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the State of Meeting held on December 28, 2021 are approved. Council Members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you?
 Seeing and hearing no objection, we will hear the entire agenda, not taking away your right to pause the meeting to review an item that you may not have had enough time to look at. Majority Leader? Mr. Chair, motion to take Item 7 out of CD out of order. Second by President Pro Temp, Stanley. Item number 7, disposition of road property at 61 Terrence. Motion to open the public hearing. Second by Council Member Golombek.
 This is open. Is there anyone that called in to speak on this item? We have a representative from Bureau Scott Billman available.
 All right. Attorney Billman, do you want to brief us? Sure. Good afternoon, council members, council president. This is a request for a disposition by Bureau to Douglas Development Corporation for the parcels that Bureau owns on the property commonly known as 61 Terrace in Buffalo. It's a parking service lot that's encircled above by the I-90 on-ramp.
 The city also owns parcels in this collaboration of parcels in that area. This is a property that would go with the city parcels. The developer is proposing to acquire the property and replace the current surface parking lot with a nine-story mixed-use building, including five stories of structured parking.
 four stories of residential apartments above and an interior courtyard space. The city and bureau obtained an appraisal of approximately $1.5 million. The appraisal broke out those parcels to the city ownership and the bureau ownership. Bureau would receive approximately a million dollars of that purchase price as determined by the appraiser. The city has
 previously gone to the council seeking permission for the city parcels to transfer. This is the other piece of that deal with bureau parcels coming before the council today and asking for permission for that transfer. All right. Council Member Nowakowski, did you have anything to add?
 I just wanted to add that I did work with Vera and representatives from the Jamal Development Corporation and we had previously permitted a special use permit and had worked with them closely to make sure that we can get affordable units on that lot. So I really want to make sure that folks know that these parcels that are being sold, we have worked where there will be affordable units on that property. That's great. Good to hear that that is moving through. Anyone else?
 Majority Leader. Motion to close the public hearing. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golumbac. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Winkle.
 Council member Wyatt. Yes. Thank you. From the top. Item number 1, 166 and 173rd Street, DDA Extension. Mr. Chairman, this is an approval. I believe Council Member Kolumbik would like to recuse himself. The second by Council Member Wingo for the recusal.
 and mr chair mr uh councilmember golomba yeah thank you um you know i know that uh in the past because i work part-time at buffalo state college uh the law department had recommended that i recuse myself however they did uh tell me mr ball that you know technically because it is my district i could opine
 on the item but not vote for it. I will be very, very active with the community and with Buffalo State College because I think that this is a game changer for the Black Rock and West Side neighborhoods that both states abuts against.
 I think that this has the potential of being an outstanding project. And I think that if we're able to work with the rebuild of the expressway over there as well, I think that we could make a truly urban and rural college at Buffalo State.
 that residents of the West side in Black Rock would also be able to use something similar to like the University of Rochester along the Genesee River. So I just, I wanted to mention that although I can't vote for this, I do think that it is a game changer for those neighborhoods that are dead, but that the North and parts of the North and the Niagara district. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Council Member, Columbus.
 All right. Council member Bowman? Yes. Council member Farrelletto? Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Majority leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number two, abandonment of sale portion of Carroll Street of Frank Lloyd Rightway and Carroll Place. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember White. Item number three, appoint open data analytics project coordinator. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Friar-Leto. Item number four, change order for Bergman Associates for B&M C-Phase. Motion to approve items four through seven. Okay.
 Second by Council Member Bowman. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golumbac? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Malenko? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 8, a point pumping plant operator.
 Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number nine, permission to accept 2021 Motor Vehicle Death Insurance Fraud Grant. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto.
 Council member, I'm back. Yes. Council member, no, I'll call ski. Yes. So President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President pro Tim Scanlon. Yes. Also member Winkle. Yes. Also member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 11, Police Department obtaining towed vehicle. I'm sorry. Number 10. Number 10, full start license 432 East Ferry. This is the late file and it's open.
 Council Member Wingo. Thank you. We can send this item back to committee because we have some more conversation that we have to have with the new owner or the applicant, I should say. Thank you. Chair DeRuwe? Motion is sent back to CD or was it in ledge? It's in the item. It's in the item. It's going to ledge. Ledge. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 Item number 11, police department obtain and tow vehicle. Motion to approve items 11 and 12. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes.
 Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 13, appoint personnel specialist to. Motion to send the civil service items 13 and 14, 15, and 16. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 17, notice of appointment for council intern.
 Motion to adopt items 17 and 18. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Miscellaneous, item number 19, mental health pair connection. Motion to send the CD items 19 and 20. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 21, police deliverance association updates. Motion to send to the police oversight. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Presentation.
 Item number 22, request response for abandoned vehicle. Motion to send the CD items 22 and 23. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 24, support of good cost legislation at the state level. Motion is sent to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Petitions. Item number 25, plan unit development for 1681, 1689, 1703, and 1707 Main Street. Motion is sent to legislation in City Planning Board. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Submissions list. Civil Service Committee. Item number one, appoint police lieutenant.
 Motion is to approve items 1 and including 4. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Winkle. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes.
 Finance Committee, item number 5, permission to extend contract for BWEL. Motion to approve. Second by the majority leader. Council member Bowman? Yes. Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Golumbac? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Majority leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes.
 Community Development, Item Number 6, 2712 Bailey Avenue Designated Developer Agreement. Motion is to approve. Council Member Winkle. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Colombeck. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Winkle. Yes.
 Yes. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes. Item number 8, report is still 68, Ernest. This is a motion to deny. Motion to deny, second by Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wingo, and 12 is to deny. Do you want to put a reason for the record?
 The reason for denial of these applications to purchase property from the City of Buffalo is that the applicants have not been maintaining the current properties that they have. We don't have the confidence or faith that they will upkeep the properties that they are purchasing for extra green space or any type of use for that matter. That's why they are being denied, as well as some other issues that were discovered by our housing liaison.
 and those issues will be recorded and sent to council staff for the record. And that's for 11, 12, and 13, correct? Yes, whichever items we're denying, those are the basic premises of the reasons why they are being denied. All right. Did I give you a second on that already? Yes. All right. Item number nine, report itself, 591, Wyoming. Okay.
 The motion is to approve 9 and 10 with conditions. Motion is approved 9 and 10 with conditions, second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombic? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo?
 Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 11, report is cell 535 Northland. Motion is to deny items 11, 12, and 13. Second by Council Member Wingo. Legislation, item number 14, new tire handler 2832 Bailey. This item is unmarked in the Mastin District, 2832 Bailey Avenue. Council Member Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. The item is open because we were speaking with the applicant regarding the sale of the cars. We have not determined what the parameters would be for the sale of those cars. So we will have to send this back to committee until we have a definitive agreement or a list of conditions for the applicant to sell cars on their property. So you want this to go to committee, I mean, to remain in the committee?
 We recommitted. We recommitted. Okay, motion is to recommit. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 15, new used car 2832 Bailey. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 16, used car dealer 2284 Genesee. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski to approve with conditions. Councilmember Bowman.
 Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombak. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council member Wingo. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes.
 item number 17 full start license 1245 bailey motion is to approve items 17 items 18 with conditions item 19 item 20 with conditions item 21 if you could keep scrolling down please and yep through item 21 mr chair number 17 is uh to recommit
 all right let's change that that portion of the motion to recommit number 17 second by Council member Bowman and now taking up the item of the approval as the chairman has called out the numbers previously second by Council member Wyatt
 Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombet? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? And Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Yes.
 Resolutions. Item number 26. Support for New York State Assembly Bill A-4283 for companion and animal consumer protection. Motion to adopt the results. Remainder to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek, who has the floor.
 Thank you Mr. President. This item is in regards to a bill that is stalled in Albany in regards to basically puppy mills. You know what they've done is a
 Different municipalities have banned the practice of being able to mate animals so that they can sell dogs in particular. And while we have places like the SPCA, the City Pound, etc., that are filled with dogs...
 And many of these puppy mills are in very, very bad shape. The animals that are raised there are, you know, are really not treated very well. And so this goes on the record in support of the program or the law that is currently in Albany waiting to be voted on. I want to thank lawyers, Matt Albert and Peter Reese for helping with this resolution.
 and hopefully this will help move some of our colleagues in Albany to approve their legislation. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wingo. We'll add it to this resolution. Council Member Wingo would like to be added. Same. Council Member Noll, council would like to be added. You could add me to it as well. Council Member Rivera would like to be added.
 Next item. Item number 27, Halting the Demolition of the Great Northern Grain Elevator. A motion to adopt the results, remainder to CD. Second by Council Member Golombak who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. You know, this is always, anytime that you're dealing with preservation issues, it becomes very, very sticky for many regards. And one of the criticisms that the preservation community and myself included, you know, opens themselves up to is that, oh, you want to save things after the fact, or, oh, you want to tell someone what they must do with their property. You know, this is a land of private property.
 property, capitalism, et cetera. Well, you know, because of Douglas Jamal coming out a few weeks ago and saying that he would be interested in saving this building in the South Buffalo part of the city of Buffalo, I felt very, very confident in putting together this resolution, calling on ADM and others to come together to try to salvage this property.
 I've heard different things from different people, different professional people that have said whether the building is beyond repair or not. My understanding is that the insides of the building is like a 12-pack pop dispenser. The cans are inside and are in great shape, but the container around it is what is having problems.
 And you know that the container around it can simply be fixed in this case, it would be the brick workings on this is the last type of elevator grain elevator of this type, I believe that's worldwide. When at one time, these were found all across the country and the globe Canada or.
 think even the Russia had some once upon a time, but they're all gone. And people, you know, roll their eyes and say, Oh, you know, this is ridiculous. It's just an eyesore. It's history, whether we like it or not. And there's been these debates in the past about keeping our history warts and all. And I believe that it is very, very necessary that the city of Buffalo protect our heritage and our history. Uh,
 in particular the grain elevators, the predominantly Irish from South Buffalo, the valley, the ward that worked there once upon a time. And I know that people don't necessarily believe this, but there are people that come to cities that look at architecture, that look at historical sites. When I do my summer, little summer vacations in Montreal and Quebec City, I
 pick out a map and I find places that I want to go to that the average tourist would not be going to. But in my regards, I look for literary, I look for architectural, I look for historically relevant places. And I also just walk and I just look for places, whether it's a church building or a firehouse or a park that's named after someone. And I bring my
 tourist dollars into those cities and there are people that do that in the city of buffalo so this resolution calls on sort of a deep breath for everyone to see if there's a way that we might be able to salvage this building and i want to publicly thank mr jamal for being involved in this and i've not spoken to him but i support the idea that he is interested in trying to uh
 purchase and help the building. Perhaps there's a way that he could work with the union that was also interested in that building. And this way we could protect, salvage, and, you know, keep a little bit of our Buffalo history because, you know, the people that scream, tear it down, it's an eyesore, you can put something more beautiful up there. Well, I'm just not that progressive that I think that we should destroy everything from the past.
 I would like to see our history saved. I think that Buffalo should market on its history. I mean, a few years ago we had, I think, one of the preservation coalitions that had a group that came into Buffalo for their yearly hearings. And I think that we could do that again and again and again. And unlike the old ideas of Bass Pro, the silver bullet approach,
 i think that it is so much more important to have the silver shotgun pellet approach a hundred different smaller things throughout the entire city of buffalo that brings a wide diverse range of people tourists educators whatever to come into our city and see the jewel that is the queen city thank you thank you to the district council member um council members and president protest
 Thank you. When preservation issues like this arise, they elicit strong reactions from all those involved, whether it be the property owners, the preservation community, or residents of the greater Buffalo community. Unfortunately, when feelings are this strong and people are this vocal about a topic, often the opportunity to collaborate and arrive at a mutually beneficial outcome can be lost because people only want to hear it.
 their point, get their point across, and the art of listening tends to go out the window. This resolution, as Council Member Glumbeck stated, is just asking for all involved to hit the brakes, slow down, let's have a conversation about the Great Northern Elevator. I think we have an opportunity for representatives from ADM, the academic community, the preservation community, and representatives from the City of Buffalo to come together and have a conversation and do what's best for this building as well as the City of Buffalo.
 We have an opportunity to bring this building, which is a true testament to Buffalo's past into the 21st century and breathe new life into it. I would hate to see us squander that opportunity. Councilmember Glumbeck touched on the heritage and the history of
 that area along the Buffalo River in Silo City, and it's not lost on me. My father worked as a scooper in some of the grain silos along the Buffalo River. So the history that talks about that part of Buffalo's history is very important to me. Also, one other thing I did want to touch on is I hear a lot of people saying, and I've read comments laying the blame for the current situation over there at the feet of the city of Buffalo.
 But I want people to understand that the city of Buffalo and specifically the Department of permits and inspections cannot just enter buildings whenever they want and start inspecting them. They don't have carte blanche when it comes to entering buildings they have to operate within the constraints of the code within the strength constraints of the law so.
 Again, people want to blame the city of Buffalo for letting it deteriorate inside. But again, they cannot just go into buildings and start inspecting them. But as I did state, we have a tremendous opportunity here to come together and have a conversation regarding this building. There are people from all different areas of the city who are interested in collaborating on this. And I hope that ADM takes them up on their offer. Council Member Wingo. I would like to be added to the resolution. Council Member Wingo. I would like to be added to the resolution.
 All right. Councilmember Ringgold to the resolution. I had asked in caucus meeting to be added to the resolution as well. Majority leader to the resolution. Council President. Councilmember Novanowski.
 Thank you very much. And I'd like to thank my colleague in the South District, Chris Scanlon, for putting this resolution forward and really bringing up good points that show that we need to work together when we are faced with these preservation issues. Because this is not in my district, but the Buffalo River does separate the South District and the Fillmore District, and the Old First Ward and many parts of the neighborhoods that it represent have their history to this specific parcel of land.
 And I often say this sometimes, when we are talking about preservation in the totality of the city of Buffalo, it has a large standing quality and benefit to preserve our history. Last year, millions of dollars were spent when
 movies were being taped and filmed in the city of Buffalo. And they weren't being taped and filmed because Buffalo is known for wonderful beaches and seafood meals. We're known for our historic architecture and it's worthy to be captured. And that's what we're really talking about. We're talking about the footprint in the history of Buffalo and the beautiful architecture that we have that makes us Buffalo. And I know that this resolution is calling to bring people together to come to a mutual conclusion. And I support that and would like to thank Council Member Scanlon.
 Councilmember Rivera? Thank you very much Mr. Chair. There is certainly something systemic that we have to look at. There are a number of buildings in similar conditions to this mill and throughout the city of Buffalo and in our neighborhoods and I know the Preservation Board does great work in trying to identify these buildings.
 But a lot of times these buildings are mothballs for many years in the conditions and sometimes they either implode or they explode or bricks fall off. But we have to find something or some way to make sure these buildings are safe and preserved. Thank goodness that nobody was injured because of a falling brick.
 But it's not like that in other places. It does pose a risk to public safety. To the firemen or policemen or somebody that's around those buildings, we have to do a better job in working collectively, not just on this building, which I think should be preserved. And I want to thank all of the legislators up in the state on down and Doug Jamel and Chris and Joe for their support.
 for sponsoring this resolution and bringing attention. But I think we need to go a little further beyond that, just identifying that we need to save this building. There are a lot of buildings in conditions like this that deserve to be preserved.
 that should be preserved and we need to find a way. And I know there are challenges as Chris mentioned. The challenges are, you know, the laws that exist, but we have to find some way to preserve these buildings and not allow them to get in the condition that they're in to the point where they're either imploding or exploding outward. So I'd like to see a plan, a better plan that would do, be more proactive early on instead of waiting for bricks to start falling. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Council President Pridgen is just reconnecting. If another council member just wants to temporarily take over. I know council member Fairlady, you had your hand up.
 Yes, thank you very much. I just want to commend all my colleagues, Council Member Scanlon, Council Member Glombeck, everyone else who signed on to this. I think this is extremely important that we're taking a position on this. Also, I wanted to add, this building was a local landmark. It has been a local landmark. And when the owners purchased it, it was a local landmark.
 currently our department of permits and inspections, they're in charge, I mean they oversee tens of thousands of properties in the city of Buffalo, and they just they don't have the resources to pro actively inspect every single building in the city of Buffalo. So I know they do a good job when they get calls about properties.
 And I know it said in the paper that Commissioner Comiford, he didn't get calls about this property. They didn't have an inspector out. So I understand. I certainly understand that that's how the city works. But I do think we can...
 make some changes and I think we could address this legislatively. Right now I'm drafting some legislation that the Department of Permits and Inspections proactively inspects the properties that are local landmarks. We have less than 150 local landmarks in the city of Buffalo. That way I think we could get some sort of whether it's annually, biannually, some type of regular inspections on the properties that are in fact local landmarks. Thank you.
 Okay. Item number 28, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Motion is to adopt, seconded by Councilmember Farrelletto. Item number 29, Disposition of Road Property City of Buffalo Urban Renewal, Agency 61 Terrence. Motion to approve. Motion is to approve, seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrell little. Yes. Councilmember Golumbak. Yes. Councilmember no Akowski. Yes. Council President pridgin. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. President pro temp Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. Yes. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes. Item number 30. Abenda, Minnesota sale portion of Carroll Street, Frank Lloyd right way in Carroll place.
 Motion to adopt items 30, 31, and 32. Motion is to adopt items 30, 31, and 32, seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 33, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve. Motion is to approve, seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Councilmember Bowman.
 Yes. Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Golombet? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Prichard? Yes. Majority leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Announcement.
 Announcement of committee meetings. The announcement, the follow meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com slash BFLOCC. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, January 18, 2021 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance follow on civil service is Tuesday, January 18, 2021.
 2000, I'm sorry, 22 at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, January 18, 2022 at 1 p.m. And Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, January 18, 2022 at 2 p.m. I'm sorry, we froze up. Thanks, President Pro Tem. Any announcements, Council Members? Council President. Council Member White. Just wanted to ask, did we reschedule the Oversight Committee meeting? No.
 Can we announce that? Mr. Chair? Yes, sir. I did receive a call from the administration asking us to postpone the police oversight committee meeting. My understanding is that Commissioner Byron Lockwood will be retiring. If he hasn't retired, I'm not sure.
 and they will be naming a successor and they ask that we at least adjourn it as soon as we find out who the successor will be we'll reschedule it and we'll try to get the schedule for the whole year all right thank you any other announcements all right seeing none majority leader motion to adjourn second by council member brian bowman