Okay, we are live. 4, 3, 2, 1. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Present.
 All right, can we stand for the pledge? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all very much. We're joined today by Pastor Ted Howard, the Senior Pastor of the Edison Street Community Church,
 long time community advocate and always helping somebody. Thank you for being with us, Pastor. Thank you for allowing me to come and serve. The floor is yours. We just bow our heads. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity of these chosen leaders to come together, Lord, as they serve the city of Buffalo. And we ask even now, Lord, for synchronicity.
 and Lord that there would be one mind, one heart. I pray today Lord for the spirit of commonality, Lord that there will be a peace that will take place in the chamber today as the many issues and concerns of the city of Buffalo are discussed. I pray even now that the peace that surpasses all human understanding will overtake now. We thank you for the outcome. We thank you for what has already been done. And we pray today Father that your will in the chamber
 would be done. Thank you for every man and woman serving even now. We love you and we thank you. All of these things we ask in the precious name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. We really appreciate it. Thank you for spending this time with us. God's peace. Have a tremendous evening. Thank you. Council Members, Memorands. Council Member Golombeck.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Start off with Carmela Grunswig, the mom of Elizabeth Rogan, who is the first mother of Little League football here in the North District. She's going to be very, very sadly missed.
 my neighbor very sad younger younger man when he was in kindergarten I used to walk him to school with my best friend Kevin and Mike Waters passed away I believe on Sunday night you know just sort of out of the blue he's about eight or nine years younger than me he's going to be very very sorely missed by his dad Tom as well as his sister Sue and the rest of his family um
 Kurt Wettlaufer, another Black Rock resident, passed away. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his friends at St. Mark's All Saints Episcopal Church, his wife Margaret and his friends in Black Rock.
 Former Buffalo resident and plow driver extraordinaire, Ken Giroux retired a ways back. He was my neighbor. He lived a block away from me and he was great because when he was our plow driver, because he was so close, he always made sure that his street was plowed. And so therefore my street got plowed.
 Um, and so we were thrilled about that. And I was just talking about him the other day. And then, uh, I got a message from, uh, some friends that, uh, he passed away unexpectedly. He leaves behind his wife, Brenda, uh, as well as his children and grandchildren. Uh, I'm sorry for their loss, uh, and also, uh,
 Riverside resident Ann DeLeo, who used to be the office manager at Ultimate Auto, where I get my car work done. She passed away very unexpectedly this week as well. She's going to be missed by her family and friends. Thank you, sir. Council Member Nowakowski?
 thank you mr president i represent the unique neighborhood of allentown and they lost a very valuable member to our community his known as chuck and corvia or better known as aka the bubble man that was on the structure on the corner of allen and elmwood folks from all around western new york could
 go and cross that intersection at any time and see beautiful bubbles and him giving a lot of you know sunshine and light to that neighborhood and it makes one of those things that he made Buffalo unique and known for those unique qualities so may he rest in peace and may we remember him today. Absolutely. I saw another hand up Councilmember President Pro Tempskin.
 Thank you, Council President. Tony Scotia, affectionately known as Tony the barber, a man who served as a cornerstone of the Seneca Street community, passed away this week.
 Tony operated his barber shop for six decades on Seneca Street, serving as a staple throughout the neighborhood. But he was so much more than that. He truly and honestly was a friend to all. He served as a mentor to anyone who sat down in one of his chairs for a haircut. He was always available when he needed someone to speak to, and he stood ready to offer advice whenever needed.
 Tony believed wholeheartedly in fought for South Buffalo, and in particular, the Seneca Street area. It is because of Tony who fought for that area during an economic downturn,
 And who wouldn't let that community falter that we are now seeing a tremendous turnaround, both physically and economically throughout the corridor. Very, very few people have an impact on a community and on a neighborhood the way that Tony Scotia has. And because of it, he will be missed by this community, and I will miss him a great deal.
 In addition to this neighborhood and this community who will miss him, I hope that we can all please keep in our thoughts and prayers his family, his sons, Chuck and Tony, his daughter Maria, their spouses, Nancy and Jeremy and his grandchildren, Amanda, Nicholas, Ashley, Anthony, Samantha, and Alex. Tremendous losses. Anyone else? Council Member Bowman?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I have a few names to enter in the record. First off is Millie Bernsdorf. She was a resident on Gold Street in the Lovejoy neighborhood, and I really got to know Millie well over the years. She was, you know, didn't have much
 much family or friends around. So I would pick up her heap applications or some of her tax applications as a staffer. And we just became close over the years. She was a great Lovejoy resident, lived there for her entire 90 years. And so she'll be sorely missed. We also have Ms. Evelyn Maricola.
 Mary Weather. Miss Mary Weather was always, I would see her at our Academy St. Mary's Block Club. She was always active in our community and she was also a, worked for the Criterion newspaper. So she did a lot for this community over the years and definitely made her voice heard
 Mr. David Radicek, an avid Yankees fan, but also married to his wife, Judy, for 40 years. They're over in the southern portion of our district. Great family. And I know you can just see the outpouring of love and support from his family and friends. A very well-known and loved guy. Yeah.
 Also Joseph Light was a longtime neighborhood, Lovejoy neighborhood resident who is a big member of the Big Timers Club. And he worked for the local roofers union. And lastly, Anna Rodriguez, who was better known as Chiquita, and she was the member over on Lilac Street. She passed and she was related to Judge Betty Calvo Torres.
 was her niece. Chiquita was a fun loving person and you could just see all the stories of you know love and compassion and and the people missing her. So I'd like to enter all those names into the record. Thank you Mr. Chair. Thank you. Did I miss anyone? All right. Council Member Wingo?
 City of Buffalo keep in their hearts and prayers. The family of Barbara Bailey Truesdale. She was a member of the Antioch Baptist Church and one who was always involved in her community. She will be sorely missed. She just buried her son one month ago. Now her brother will be coming from Colorado to lay her to rest. And we're going to have her home-going celebration on this Saturday. But she was such a beautiful spirit. She loved to smile and she loved to dance.
 Barbara Truesdale was always found helping someone in the community some kind of way. Even when she did not have the resources, she would find the resources and make sure that folks who were in need had what they needed. And because of that, she found herself blessed beyond measure.
 She also worked, again, like I said, in the community. She was very active when it came time for voting, when it came time for registration. So she will absolutely be sorely missed in the city of Buffalo. And to her family, you are all in our prayers. And we're just asking that the city of Buffalo continue to pray for that family. Thank you. Thank you.
 We remember Alvina Staley, who was the longtime secretary to the Board of Education way back when I was elected. She eventually retired and she has gone on.
 We pray for her family and of course anyone who was given their life for our country or for the freedom of any other country across this world. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence for all of the names that have been given. Thank you. Today we do have a special presentation by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. And I have this pleasure and honor to acknowledge three incredible women from the Miss Buffalo Scholarship Organization. And the first one is Miss Alisha Lester, who we have worked together at HSBC for many years. And she's taken on the leadership role as the executive director for the Miss Buffalo Organization. And I just commend her for her advocacy and just her tremendous leadership
 You know, sometimes, you know, you don't get a lot of acknowledgement for when you do things. But she loves what she does. And I was able to play a role as a judge from this previous contest. And I really appreciate. All right. He is reconnecting. We're going to fix Council Member White's problem. Okay.
 Sorry for the delay. Amaya is a graduate of Howard University and Buffalo State College, and she obtained her master's degree in public administration. Her determination could be coupled with her commitment to serve, preserve,
 presented her with an opportunity to open her own business, OU, which is out of your estimate, which in turn has allowed her to teach life skills to incarcerated youth at the Erie County Youth Detention Center. Her compelling argument for caring about our young people
 was something that touched my heart and I thought made her exemplary person to represent Miss Buffalo because we have a lot of young youth that need leadership and guidance, especially young women. So we acknowledge her and congratulate her on her winning the Miss Buffalo 2022. Now, she doesn't work in my office. The previous Miss Buffaloes did, but she doesn't. But I look forward to her doing a tremendous job. And I think from what I've heard already, she's already hitting
 the ground running, leading and doing a great job. So we thank her and celebrate her today. The second contestant who won,
 was who is Miss Niagara, Madeline Teal, is a senior social work major at Niagara University and will graduate with a bachelor's degree in May. Madeline's determination coupled with a commitment to serve brought to work in her family's theater company, the Teals Niagara Theater. She has an incredible group of foundation called the Ruby Slipperer Project.
 which was really incredible. And it talks about reflection, uniqueness, and boldness you. Madeline would continue to spread her program throughout Western New York and the region and build up young people, empowered bold women. And she helps girls to learn that their power is as close as their shoes on their feet. And that's another exemplary example
 presentation of a young woman who has a clear understanding of how to make a difference. And we look forward to her making a difference in the Niagara area as Miss Niagara 2022. So we celebrate you ladies and thank you so much for your dedication and the work that you will do in making a difference in the lives of young women in our city. And with that being said,
 We can give each one of you a moment to say something. So we'll start with Alicia, then Amaya, and then Madeline. Thank you, Councilman, and also thank you to the Council President for allowing us to have a moment on the floor here. We, the Miss Buffalo Scholarship Organization, we're actually the preliminary for the Miss New York and Miss America competitions. And I like to think that our organization is tri-fold. First of all, we're here to help reduce educational costs for the young ladies.
 Secondly, we're here to mold future leaders. That is our goal. And finally, we are very impactful in the communities we serve, that being Buffalo and also Niagara County area. Miss America mantra is that we're here to prepare great women for the world and prepare the world for great women. So I wanna thank you again, and I'm just gonna pass the baton over to first Miss Buffalo, Amaya King.
 Good afternoon everyone. Thank you Councilmember Wyatt for your kind words. I appreciate having the opportunity to even be here in front of you all today. Buffalo is the city that I was born and raised in so I'm super excited to represent the city that made me over the next year and I hope I come in contact with all of you in some capacity throughout this next journey. Thank you guys.
 Oh, hi. Thank you. Oh, sorry. Thank you so much, Councilmember Wyatt and all of the councilmembers for having us. It is so exciting to be here. Like Amaya said in front of you all, I couldn't be happier to serve Buffalo and Niagara this year alongside Amaya. I know that we are going to make some major changes and helping the youth of this community. And I'm just so honored to be a part of it. So thank you so much.
 And I look forward to hopefully meeting you all in person at some point. All right. Thank you all for being on. And thank you again, Ms. Lester, for what you do for so many people.
 All right. Congratulations. I know you all have better things to do, so we'll let you leave us if you like. All righty. Council members, on a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting of January 11th, 2021 are approved. Do you have the late files before you? Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you?
 Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review an item. I believe we have a few items to go out of order. Yes, Council President. Motion to take items 9 and 10 from CD out of order. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 9, Abandoned Minnesota Portion Carroll Street of Frank Lloyd Rightway. And of Carroll Place.
 Motion to open a public hearing. Motion to open a public hearing, seconded by Council Member Wyatt. The public hearing is open, and I know Mr. Norris, our attorney, is on. I'm not sure who wants to speak first. I don't see anybody. Is there anybody from the public on? All right. Then we will go to Attorney Norris.
 Thank you, Council President. I appreciate it. Thank you all. We felt as I am here with Jim Sandoro, the executive director and really basic heart and founder of the Buffalo Transportation Pierce Arrow Museum, we wanted to be here so that we could make sure if you have any questions about this item that we can answer them. I think most of you are probably fairly familiar with the museum itself. I would like to, if I am able to share my screen, which I believe I can. Yep.
 Basically, as you know, the museum does bring crowds in from Buffalo and from beyond. And when we do that, it's the economic benefit to the city. The museum, this is actually our 25th year. We're celebrating our 25th year this year.
 And it is something that we think has been an asset to the city. And we think we in the city have had a great partnership. We've had great working relationships with the city and all the city departments over the years. I very much do appreciate that. So I wanted to make sure that that point was made very clear. I am trying to reshare my screen. And I'm, oh, here it is. The issue right before the council today is a question of
 the Carroll Street and Frank Lloyd Wright Way. The museum campus right now, as I'm assuming you can see my screen right now,
 The museum campus encompasses everything from Michigan, which is this street here, to Chicago, and from Seneca to Exchange. So all of the properties you're seeing within this area, including this building here that used to be the Social Security Administration lease offices, we acquired title to that a couple years ago, and their lease is now complete, and we are in the process of bringing the collection into that area as well.
 And all of the old ethics building, this parking lot, all of this is already owned by the museum.
 which is in essence owned by the state of New York. The museum is not a typical not-for-profit corporation. We are actually chartered by the Department of Education and we are owned in essence by the people of the state of New York. So it is not, some people mistakenly think, a private company or Mr. Sandoro's hobby or whatever. This is a very important museum that is in essence controlled by the state of New York.
 Because we've acquired all of these properties, it would be significantly beneficial if we were able to acquire the streets that intersect, which are outlined in blue. That would allow us to then gate off the campus and have events in these streets. In other words, car shows, we could have longer car shows, etc., which then means that we can have bigger events, which then means we can bring a better impact to the city.
 So it is with that that we are asking for the council approval to acquire these streets. We've worked through the price of the streets. We've done the appraisal. We are paying market value for the streets. It's not any kind of a gift or grant from the city. I do want to say again, thank you very much to the real estate department and to the city for assisting us through this process. And other than that, we're pretty much just here to answer any questions you might have.
 All right. Attorney Billman, were you on in case there were questions?
 I was, Council President. Good afternoon everyone. Scott Billman, General Counsel for BURA. So BURA is required when they dispose of property to get permission from the Common Council for that disposition and the reason that we're here today on the BURA transfer request is that during the due diligence period for the title work it was discovered that BURA had a deed coming into it that
 retain some interest in the part of Carroll Street that is being asked to be abandoned.
 So the title company recommended that the best course to clear that title issue was for Buer to transfer any and all interest it had in that Ben Carroll place over to the city so the city could complete their transaction with the museum. And so that's the request here from Buer to approve that portion of transfer back to the city so the city can finish their transaction
 As Mr. Norris just described, the Bureau Board has already approved this transaction subject to Common Council approval. Thank you, sir. Council Member Norikowski?
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I did want to note for the record that I was able to go on a tour of the campus with former Councilmember David Fronczek and Mr. Sandoro a few weeks ago. And I want to state for the record that the museum and the parcels that are acquired that he maintains, we should be proud of. He will make sure that this is an area that's safe and developed safely.
 and it's adequately addressed in every form and fashion. And for those folks that have not been to Pierce Arrow Museum I would deeply encourage to go. Hopefully Jim will be there one day cause he gives the best tours, but this is something that is worthy of the common council approval. Thank you. All right, anyone else? Council member Revere, you're still on mute, sir. You mentioned, I'm sorry, you mentioned that this was a state organization
 who actually own the museum, is that correct? Yes, the museum is chartered by the state education department and we are bound to them, they control us. We have to report to them every year with all of our assets. Okay, now I wanna thank Mr. Sandor for all the work he does, but in going forward into the future, should this organization dissolve, would those streets revert back to the city of Buffalo?
 If the organization was to dissolve, it would have to go through basically the surrogates court, which would determine what to do with the not-for-profits assets. It doesn't technically own by the state of New York per se. It is a not-for-profit, but it's controlled by the education department. So if it is dissolved, the property would then be determined, its disposition would be determined by the surrogates court. So it would go to the surrogates court.
 Now, this is for the city's attorney. Maybe you can answer that. Was there any consideration to putting that in the language of the agreement? So you don't have to go to surrogate's court? I'm just curious if protecting the city going forward, to be able to recapture the property should the board for any reason,
 disband or the organization that the city be protected so I'd just like to know from our attorneys if that's something they considered councilmember just I'm I'm here it's general counsel for bureau on the on the request for the city I'm not sure there's anyone here from city law they could answer that question
 Okay, I'm just Karen Karen is on. I'm not sure if she's. But let me and Scott you can attorney Billman, correct me if I'm wrong, because they are paying for the street it would be like any other sale of property, because it's not an abandonment without payment.
 So it would seem that whatever, it wouldn't just automatically revert back. It's like when we do city honors, if we do city honors, if city honors is there, we sold it, we received the money, and that deal is basically done. Is that basically correct? That's basically correct. And that's really why the council has a public hearing on this matter, because of the act of abandonment.
 the act of abandonment um declares that that property then can be abandoned as to public use and uh transferred to private to the privacy but again i'm not i'm not on that part of the transaction for the city but that is my understanding i don't care i don't know if i am i am here i'm sorry i am here what's the question you can repeat it thanks karen i had asked this is
 I have a question about the streets. I know that there's a kind of a joint kind of thing between a not for profit in the state where we're abandoning streets and I asked if should this organization be dissolved in the future. Can this can those streets revert back to the city. Now there's a question about that we're actually selling it so they can do it with it as they
 I don't know what the future plans would be for the streets. That's kind of a tricky question because it's like a two-part question. And you're correct that if it's sold, then whoever it's sold to can do whatever they please with the property. It's their property at that point. And with the abandonment phase, as an addition to that, meaning that the property is no longer used for the...
 public good, then I don't see how it will never revert to the city in that instance.
 It might have been different if it was a situation where the city was entering into agreement to lease the property or lease that portion for a set period of time, and at the end of that time, the property then reworks. So I think it's a different situation. I don't see the likelihood of that happening. But I think if, you know, for any more specific analogy or explanation, Scott might be able to assist in that area. Did that answer Majority Leader?
 I mean, I don't know if it answered completely. I understand it.
 the purpose for what they're doing now, but I don't know what can happen 10, 15 years from now in terms of the need for that, what happens after that in terms of the street, not the buildings, but the street itself. So, um, I'm hoping for the best. I mean, all I can say is I'm hoping for the best and that that building and that, um, that museum is there long,
 past us and we won't have to deal with it or even think about it but that was a question I had because I know it many times the city looks out for things and it reverts back to the city if there's an interest in being that it's a street who knows what can happen but I'll defer to the whole body not a problem is a good question um
 The I'm in full support of this. The museum has done a tremendous job in that area. And of course, it being at the foot of the African American Heritage Corridor, it is a very important piece of history. I've been through all those sections and know that it
 if all of that can be joined together and maybe one day you won't have to go outside to go from one to the other, but in some ways be able to go and see all of the collection that is there, I think it's a very important piece.
 I hear your hesitation, Majority Leader. I'm always hesitant to do what's called abandon a street. Abandon is the legal terminology, but it's actually selling a portion, as you've heard me say with City Honors, wanting to know the traffic. We don't have the same type of dynamic down there, or I want to know the same thing that I do with City Honors. But it is a do-fill-good project, and that...
 It can only enhance what I think is one of Buffalo's gems. Anyone else? All right. Majority Leader. Motion to, well, this one is going to go, we're going to close the public hearing. Yes, we have to close it. It's going to go to CD and the Planning Board. All right. Motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Council Member Frioletto. And then the motion was to send to CD and the Planning Board, seconded by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 10, disposition of road property at Frank Lloyd Right Way. Motion to open a public hearing. Motion to open the public hearing, seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. We have this in front of us. Bob, did you want to give us a quick overview on this one?
 This is basically the same project, just the rest of the streets. As Mr. Bielman indicated, there was a little portion of this project that was actually had a title issue with Bureau. There's really nothing more for me to add beyond what I said before. So I think I'll just stand on that at this time. Okay, we'll let you stand on that, attorney. Anybody have any questions?
 It's just another little piece of that puzzle, but it was shown in that first layout. That was a part of that first layout. All right. Seeing no other questions, majority leader. Motion to close the public hearing. Motion to close the public hearing, second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Motion to send the CD. Motion to send the CD, second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Thank you, attorneys. Thank you. Item number 1, amend grassroots garden lease.
 Motion to approve items 1 through 4. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Leto. Yes. Councilmember Glumbach. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes.
 Item number 5, report a cell 60 century. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Bolden. Item number 6, report a cell 215 Hudson. Motion to approve item 6 through and including 6 through 8. Second by Council Member Golombic. Council Member Wingo. Please include item number 9 and item number 10 in that approval.
 Motion to approve up to item number 10. You can, if you're doing the nine and 10, you could do the 11 with conditions. Approve the 11 with conditions as well. All right. For the record, the conditions on number 11 is that the structure that is being proposed, the 156 West must be built within 18 months, or clawed back by the city. Roll call. Council Member Bowman.
 Council member Farrelletto. Yes. Council member Golombak. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council member Winkle. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 12, report of sale 510 Woodlawn.
 uh send number 12 and 13 to cd please my council member later majority leader hello majority leader yes council member wingo yeah the motion would be to approve those items i spoke with my staff and those items are fine as well we don't need to send those to cd all right so the we send the item to the motion to send the cd second by council member wingo
 And majority motion is motion is now to approve items 12 and 13 and 14. Second by Council Member Stanley. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wyatt.
 Yes. Item number 15, Crystal Middleton, Director of Planning. Motion to send civil service items 15, 16, and 17. Second by Council Member Noah Kowski. Item number 18, Notification Serial for Truck Route Additional Haze Place. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Colombo.
 item number 19 change order amherst paving mill and overlay motion to approve items 19 20 21 22 23 24 and 25. second back council member council member bowman yeah council member faroletto yes council member golembeck yes council member nolakowski yes council president pridgen yes majority leader rivera yes president pro temp scanlon
 Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 26, appoint supervisor street sanitation. Motion to send civil service items 26 through 29. I'm sorry, second by President Pro Temske. Item number 30, property manager license, Burroughs Properties. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Bowman?
 Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombak. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council member Winkle. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 31, second hand dealer.
 Motion to send to legislation items 31 and 32. Second by Council Member Noah Kowski. Item number 33, used car dealer 980 Grant Street. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombi. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto.
 Yes. Council member Golombak? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 34, Liquor License Notice. This is Lightfile from Lovejoy. Item 34, if that's the used car dealer, can we send to Ledge, please?
 Motion is sent to legislation. Second by Council Member Bowler. I'm sorry, I don't have that. It's on 34. I'm not showing that on my agenda. We're showing it on the agenda from 1122 AM. And the one I have is from next up. Okay. Okay. Okay. One second. Okay.
 I'll read it off online. I'm sorry. My printout is reflecting yesterday's date. Item number 34 was used car dealer 1719 Seneca Street. And it's going to go to send the CD second by Bowman. Next item. Item number 35, wholesale junk and scrap processor for 267 Morella. This is another late file deferred to the district council member. Motion to commit.
 Recommit. Where is it going? Where is it going? The legislation, please. Legislation. Okay. A motion to send the legislation second by President Pro Temp Scanlon, and if somebody can make sure our clerk has the correct agenda. Next item. Item number 36, Liquor License Notice for 834 Abbott. Motion to receive and file items 36 through 38. All right. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item 39, notice of appointment labor two seasonal. Motion to send to civil service items 39 and 40. Second by Council Member Wengel. Item number 41, appoint senior legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member DeLongo. Item number 42, CC Western New York workforce and education programs. Motion to send to education committee items 42 and 43. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item 44 letter to DPW requesting a discussion of the approval of the snow removal plan. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Golombet. Mr. President. Council Member Golombet, I'll just . Thank you. I want to ask staff
 for the next CD meeting to make sure that we invite Commissioner Finn and anybody else that we think would be necessary. I'm not sure if it would be, you know, Henry Jackson, Kevin Helfer from parking violations,
 because, you know, we had some problems in the North District and in other parts of the City of Buffalo, and I understand what some of the problems were, but, you know, it took longer to get to the snow than it normally would. I understand that we were hit by record snowfall on that day, and I think 17, 18 inches was the most that we'd ever got.
 on that date, but in certain parts of the North District, it was 72 hours later that we were getting snow plows down the streets. And I want to see what exactly the problems were. I did do some research over the past week or so. I know that in parts of the North District, we had numerous cars that were parked on both sides of the street.
 And I worked very, very closely with Chief Fahey at D District. I think there were six or seven that were apparently abandoned. And in each of those cases, it was new Americans that did not understand the parking regulations in the city, in particular during a snowstorm. And to their credit, the community police officers actually found out where these people lived, went to their houses, knocked on the doors, used the...
 I believe the translation app that is on their phone. And then explain to them, hey, you got to get your kids over there, shovel out the truck or car or whatever and move it. But I know that there were a lot of problems all over the city of Buffalo, in particular in the North District. And I'm not planning on doing an I gotcha with anybody from the administration. What I want to find out is that what went wrong is,
 what were the problems and how do we rectify this situation in the future? That's my reason for submitting the letter and requesting that Commissioner Finn and whoever else is deemed appropriate to be able to answer these questions would be invited to this meeting, the community development meeting next week. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Thank you. And I'll, because there's an item that's coming in a few minutes, I'll comment now. Several of us have filed an item that has requested that, so it'll be voted on a little later in the agenda. But I do agree with you that to have a open conversation, I think, is very important when we talk about the snow plan, because this council does approve a snow plan.
 And I think we have to now really dig in to, excuse the pun, really dig in to figure out what went wrong and what went right. Because some things did go right and some things could have been done a lot better. Whether that is equipment that is needed. I've gotten a ton of calls with suggestions into our office. It was, you know, there were certain things that happened that we know we will hear about
 They will be in our meeting next week. Commissioner Finn has already said that in caucus that he would be there and some of the representatives. And it is important that we work together because at the end of the day, regardless of what our responsibilities are during the snowstorm as far as the council, one of our greatest responsibilities is to answer
 answer our constituents and the problems that we have, and that's only going to happen by working together. So it's not a point the finger at one person, point the finger at a branch of government, but really what is it that you need so that if this occurs again, we do better than what we did. So thank you. Council Member Bowman.
 Thank you, Mr. President, and I thank Mr. Golombak for filing this. I would say that it's important if we could have the parking commissioner there. In the Lovejoy District, we did have significant issues as well. In my district, we have several different forms of alternate parking, and the way it broke down, I think we need to decide how.
 how we're going to handle it and have a clear decision and communication, which way we're going to go with that. For example, on Monday, I had several residents asking me, you know, we're not going to be able to move our car. There's no way I could get it to the other side. It hasn't been plowed yet. So we were waiting kind of to hear, but I said in the last storm prior, they were ticketing to get the cars to move. And then later in the evening, it was decided that they were not going to take it at that night. But I just like a,
 a more concise decision so we could communicate it effectively to the residents and i'm not coming down i know there's a lot of uh a lot of things going on that they're dealing with in these situations but i just would like the way find a way to uh you know effectively communicate and uh so i i would ask that commissioner helfer also be at the meeting to discuss these problems thank you
 Thank you, sir. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President, and I agree with my colleagues. We don't want to point fingers and lay blame on the residents who dealt with this record snowfall. Don't want to hear excuses, but they want to hear there's a plan, and I thank the council president, the resident that you put forth to revise the plan, to re-look at it with all of us, with
 you know, clear eyes on how we can maybe improve and become more efficient, I think is appropriate. I want to give a shout out to Mr. Henry Jackson. He did an incredible job. I mean, I know everyone didn't see all that he did, but the residents who contacted me and I coordinated with him, block clubs,
 He went out and assisted them, but it's not all on him to come up with a new plan, but we should be hearing his input on what he thinks you could do better as well as from residents. So again, I think applaud the council president for putting forth the resolution that we all can take a role in and play and see how we can become more efficient. We don't have snow. We're in Buffalo.
 So we should do just like the state has done. They've adopted and changed their plan over the years as they come into different situations. And I think we should do the same. So I don't think we want to lay blame. I think it's us. We want to become more efficient. And I appreciate your support in doing that. Thank you.
 Thank you. Councilmember Reed, did you have a question? Thank you. Yes, Mr. Chair, I agree with you. This is not about pointing a finger at anybody, especially when we had a record fall. But during the course of that three days, we did get a number of calls from residents who had some good ideas as well on what we can do to improve our snow removal. And I think we should, I don't know if collectively our offices
 I can share that information with our central staff so we can present that to the commissioner. There might be some ideas among them that have some merit. I believe that there are parking lots in the city of Buffalo and wrap lots.
 lots that the city owns that they can allow people to park in when they're trying to remove snow off the side streets. So we need more spaces for people to park their cars. And maybe we should look at using some of those sites that have large parking lots so that people can remove their cars off some of the side streets, at least one side of the street, so the plows can get through. I think that was probably one of the biggest problems I witnessed was that there were cars parked on both sides of the street and the plows.
 plows cannot adequately pile the streets from curb to curb. But if we're able to work with institutions that have large parking lots like Kleinhans, Deauville College, churches, to remove cars off the streets so the plows can get through. I got stuck in North District. Of all places, I thought I was safe.
 I said, I'm going to go to Henrietta and I got stuck between two cars. And thank goodness for the people on Henrietta, they were digging themselves out. I wish you could have seen people with shovels up and down the street. And that's how I got off the street. I had to reverse and get back to the west side. So it was all over the city. I, you know, it wasn't just the west side. It was those neighborhoods that had small streets and narrow streets. And it was the big streets as well.
 The other thing that might want to look at, there was a little bit of mixed messaging. They say, hey, get off the side streets and park on the main street. They did that. They moved over to the main street, then they got ticketed on the main streets. We have to send a clear message. If we're going to tell you to get off the side street, go on the main streets and then you're going to get ticketed.
 So hopefully we'll won't send mixed messages, but I think there's a chance to improve upon this and I'm not pointing a finger at anybody. They did the best they could with the resources they had and if we need to allocate more resources in terms of manpower and equipment to make sure the snow is removed quickly, as quickly as possible. As Councilmember Gallant makes sense, 72 hours is a long time to be stuck on your block and trying to dig yourself out so
 let's see how we can work to improve the snow removal. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. Item number 45, concerns with good cost evictions. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member White. Petitions, item number 46, special use 819 East Ferry for neighborhood shops. Motion to send to legislation and planning board items 46, 47, and 48. Second by Council Member Wynne.
 Civil service item number one a point pumping plant operator. Motion is to approve items one and including 3. Second by the majority leader here. Also member Bowman yes also member fair little it's also member go on that yes. Also member know a Kowski yes also president pritchett yes majority leader Rivera yes.
 President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Winkle? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number four, appoint truck driver. Motion is to receive and file items four and including eight. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Community Development, item number 11, Olmstead Parks Conservancy 2022 proposed fee adjustments. Motion is to approve. Second by the Majority Leader of the Board.
 Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Farrell. Yes. Council member going back. Yes. Council member Noah Kowski. Yes. Council President Pritchett. Yes. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. President potent Scanlon. Council member Winkle. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes.
 Legislation item number 12, special use 1052 hurdle, aka 2350 Delaware. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard.
 Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 13, special use for 193 Leroy neighborhood shop. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member, did you have anything to say? Yes.
 The applicant submitted this application after we had discussions and concerns that they could not address regarding parking and the fact that the same type store that they were proposing to put here would be a super saturation of the current stores that we already have in the community, as well as their plan for traffic diversion. There is no traffic diversion. This is in a residential area.
 where this retail convenience store property is a mixed use, they don't have parking either. And my concern is that they cannot use the commercial parking on the corner of Fillmore and Leroy, and they cannot park on the street because there is no standing any time on that side of Leroy. So we spoke to this applicant. We just don't understand why they resubmitted the application after they could not answer those
 few concerns. So the motion is to deny. Right. The reason has been stated for the record. Item number 14, special use 2154 South Park Tavern and outdoor dining. Motion is to approve item 14. Is Councilmember Scanlon 15 and approve or recommit? Okay. Motion to approve 14. Second by President Pro Tempster. Councilmember Bowman.
 Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 15, Special Use 160 Abbott for Vehicle Repair. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 item number 16 special use permit for at work 41 at work tavern for industrial motion to approve with conditions item 16 and approve 17. a second by the majority leader review council member bowman yes council member farrell yes council member golembeck yes council member noakowski yes council president pridgen
 Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Winkle. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 18, supplemental letters of support for 600 Delaware. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Noah Koester. Item number 19, special use for 445 Rhode Island. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader Rivera.
 Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Fairlittle. Yes. Council member Golombek. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Temp Scalin. Yes. Council member Winkle. Council member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 20, letters of support in opposition to special use permit for $600. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by the majority leader of the year. Item number 21, Full Store License 3 Lakeview, aka 72 Pennsylvania. Motion to approve with conditions item 21 and approve items 22 and 23. Second by Councilmember Golombak. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Leto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen?
 Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Council Member Wingo? Yes. Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 24, controller fund balance response. Motion to receive and file items 24, 25, and 26. Am I on mute? Did you hear a motion to receive and file 24 through 26? Yes, we heard it. Okay. The clerk is having a problem.
 I'm here. I'm just waiting on a second on it. It was second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 27, Special Use 28, Memorial for Public Assembly. Motion to deny. Motion to deny, second by Council Member Bowman, who has the floor. I'm sorry, Nowakowski, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. There's the denial that I submitted language to the clerk, but ultimately, while this application was being considered before this body, the applicant decided to open anyways, and the events that they had at the structure, the C district had to respond to a numerous amount of incidences. So I'm basing it on that denial, and it's been in writing to the clerk. Thank you, sir.
 item resolutions item number 49 east side transfer station resolution motion to adopt second by council member bowman item number 50 fee waiver for november project motion to approve second by council member fairlady uh would item 51 be an approval as far as an adopt that's an adopt okay so motion to approve item 50. set uh motion step
 Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Golombak. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. Yes. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes. Item number 51, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. All right. Second by Councilmember Golombak.
 item number 52 budget and personnel amendment motion to adopt items 52 53 and 54. majority leader that's an approval i'm sorry a motion is to approve 52 53 and 54. second by council member
 Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Farrelletto. Yes. Council member Golombek. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. Scalin. Council member Scalin. Yes. Council member Winkle. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 55, Commissioner Bates.
 Motion to adopt items 55, 56, and 57. Second by council member, Noah Council. Item number 58, approval of abandonment and self portion of Carroll Street. Motion to send the CD. Second by council member, White. Item number 59, disposition of real property for Frank Lloyd Rightway. Motion to send the CD. Second by council member, White. Item number 60, review of the city snow plan.
 Motion to adopt the remainder to CD. Seconded by Council Member Golombek.
 item number 61 2022 council goals for strengthening language access motion to adopt second by council member noah kowski did you want council member revere you guys thank you thank you very much mr chairman we spoke briefly on this uh resolution in caucus um this resolution uh recognizes that the city's population has grown by 16 percent
 mostly due to a wave of new immigrants, new Americans who have come to resettle in this country. And with that, they have brought many challenges or have many challenges. And one is language access in so many different ways in terms of
 of transcriptions, documents, services. We've done a good job, I believe, in addressing through English language access. The administration through the Office of New Americans, the county has done great work. State of New York has continued to do great work. We're asking for our staff,
 to put a good faith effort into finding ways that we can make the lives of these immigrants a lot easier by translations, about documentations, anything that has to do with council meetings. And we've done a good job in terms of transparency and accountabilities. And also for those that are hearing impaired, deaf,
 We want to make sure that whatever information we put forward is easily accessible by new Americans and people with disabilities. Council Member Golombik mentioned a person, a few immigrants that didn't understand, you know, where to park their cars even. City Hall should be a place.
 where we can provide that information. And we want our staff to look at ways to better improve. And I want to thank Jim Montour, especially who worked on this and Pedro. I want to thank the Partnership for the Public Good, a number of people that have commented on this. And I want to thank the Common Council for making every effort to make the information that we have accessible to the general public. So thank you very much, Council President. Thank you. Thank you for the resolution.
 Item number 62, City of Buffalo Exemption Renewal Waiver Procedure. This is a late file. This is an adoption, Councilmember Rivera. Motion to adopt. Councilmember Wendell. Item number 63, Support for New York State Senate Good Cause Eviction Bill. Motion to adopt. Remainder to legislation.
 Right. Second by Councilman Wyatt, Councilman Fairletter, you have the floor. Yeah, first of all, I would like to be recorded in the negative on this. This is a resolution asking the New York State Legislature to pass a bill that deals with housing. First of all, there are no...
 western New York state legislators that are sponsoring this bill in either the assembly or the state senate. So that gives me hesitation to ask the western New York legislators who have an opportunity to be a sponsor or co-sponsor to do this when none of them have signed on for it. Second of all, we listened to one advocacy group.
 at one council meeting on this. This bill puts in rent control in apartments. This bill makes leases meaningless. If you have a one-year lease, this bill would not let the landlord end the lease. The person would be entitled to live there unless the landlord had cause eviction, which is defined in this language.
 I don't think it's reasonable for this body to be taking a strong position on something that's so important when we have only heard from one advocacy group on this. We have not asked anyone besides...
 We haven't asked anyone to come. It's just one advocacy group. And besides that point, I have very strong concerns on this. I don't feel comfortable saying that I support rent control. I don't feel comfortable saying that a lease could continue to go on indefinitely. Therefore, I am absolutely not in favor of this and would like to be recorded in the negative. Thank you. Thank you, President Pro Tempstone.
 i'd like to be recorded in the negative as well thank you councilmember negative councilmember
 yeah thank you mr chair um you know i if we are going to vote on this i'd like to be in the negative as well um however you know what i would like to just ask and it's up to the uh it's a sponsor's prerogative of course um we have a group that uh sent in a letter this past week that i believe is coming in front of legislation next week and uh they are uh
 uh going to bring up some concerns that they have um with this potential legislation as well and my request would be that instead of actually voting on this right now if we could just send it all to legislation here the other sides and then perhaps vote on it in two weeks um otherwise i would be uh in the in the negative as well all right council member um was there another council member one you heard all right so i believe
 So on this item, and I do think that this, the bill as it is written right now needs work. I do feel the same way that it needs work.
 it needs work. I think that starting in council member will be in legislation. I've just asked the sponsor whether he wanted to just send it to ledge, and I'll let him say what he wants to do. But I agree that in the form that the bill is right now that there needs to be some work on it because
 I think that it is, I do think that the bill is important. I'll say that. I think that we do have to find new ways to protect tenants from bad landlords. And that's the difference.
 of a bad landlord versus someone who's a good landlord. And we create a law that does not allow that person to be able to control their apartment if it belongs to them. But because I've seen so much abuse, I think that there does need to be something, whether it's this half empty, half full apartment
 what I would encourage is our Western New York delegation to take a real hard look at this and if they disagree with it to look at what do we do then and move some let's say
 legislation forward, but this one needs work. I'll support this personally only because I'd like to see, have some discussion, but I do want to hear back at legislation. And as Council Member Fialetto said, I do want to hear from other groups on this. And that's why the council member is not simply adopting it and sending it, but asking for it to go to legislation also. Is that correct? All right.
 So we record those that are in a negative and a negative, and I believe that that passes second by Councilmember Wyatt. Clerk?
 Announcement of committee meetings. The announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live, www.facebook.com slash BFLOCC. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, February 1st, 2022 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance. Following civil service is Tuesday, January 1st, 2022 at 10 a.m.
 Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, February 1st, 2022 at 1 p.m. And Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, February 1st, 2022 at 2 p.m. Just to make a note, because we did switch two committees, CD and Legislation, we just switched the time because one usually goes longer. That way we can get people into both meetings on time. So just so that the public can take note of that.
 Council members, any announcements for your districts? All right. Seeing no hands. Council Member Revere. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Brian Bowman. Thank you. We adjourn.