47 years and in 52 days they were up. Because right leadership can change out. And I think this consul is asking for that. Jesus in one of his teachings in Luke 14, it says, suppose one of you wants to build a tower. Will you not first sit down and estimate the cost to see if he has enough money to complete it? For if he lays the foundation and is not able to finish it, everyone who sees it will ridicule him, saying, this fellow began to build and wasn't able to finish it. Delver a new knee and me with a dissertation complete reminds me that part of God's will, and Jesus outlined it in Luke 14, is not just to start with the city on a track, but to start with the city on a track. Better than it finishes. The finishing anointing literally lets you push it to completion. That's what Jesus is addressing here in Luke 14, the ability to finish. So I want to pray that what for me and for the city is going to be a completion of being started. Maybe some things that were started by council members who served in the city when we got there. But that this will be a season of strong finishing. That's what we've got to follow. You know that Buffalo does have decades of history of starting and starting and starting and all kinds of false attempts. I think of all the projects on the waterfront, all the ones throughout the city. This was going to happen. This was going to happen. That was going to be the Savior. That would rescue us. And, Lord, how few of those things actually came to completion. In this, the new Buffalo, I declare that these words of Jesus are true. that, Lord, we're counting the cost, not just to start, not just to toss out ideas, but to have the kind of creative ideas that have strong finishing attached to them. I pray for the deliberations today and for each council member as they face the challenges every day in their district office. I pray, Father, they'll know which things to do in what order, give them sequencing like I had to have as I was working on the paper, and I pray, Father, most of all, that for the good of this city, finishing anointing will be on each council member. Thank you, sir. Do we call you Reverend Doctor now? Oh, okay. You haven't defended it yet? All right. Thank you for the future, Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Council Member's memorials. Council Member Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President. Robert Cubala passed away. It was a family that owned Casey's Tavern on Amherst Street. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family. Roberta Rohrbach passed away, longtime Riverside resident. She will be missed by her children and her grandchildren in the neighborhood. young man, James Rex, Rexinger, passed away. I'm sort of friendly with his daughter from the neighborhood, RHS Alumni Association and all of that. He, too, will be sorely missed by his family. I don't know if anybody caught this in the paper today, but Buffalo resident Tibor Baranski passed away. Tibor Baranski was in his 90s. He had lived in... uh... hungry during the second world war uh... when he came back from school he had been attending school in a monastery school i think he was in his early twenties and uh... i think it was a bishop of uh... um... budapest and he worked together to save over three thousand jews during the holocaust and he uh... had to flee hungary in the late nineteen fifties during the uh... uprising uh... that was there and he adopted buffalo as his native town i believe he was a member of saint elizabeth's church which is the church uh... where the reverend the woman that we met a few years ago that was the old Hungarian church in the neighborhood and I got to meet him a couple of times more in passing But I would listen to him speak and you know for a man that had you know fought the Nazis fought the communists and then Came to Buffalo and lived a truly truly our blessed life, you know into his 90s But he's going to be sorely missed by his family and his friends as well. Thank you, sir any others Councilmember Wyatt? I'm just sending out prayers to the family of Vince Torrance and Kelly Earl. Vince grew up in Central Park and was a really, really nice guy and recently passed, so my prayers go out to the family. Any others? Hearing no others, we mourn better known as Miss Gigi. I didn't know her real name until I baptized her. After the store burned down, she became a member of our congregation. And at 78 years old, was baptized by immersion at 78 years old. And she passed this week at 80. A new location and this is in the Mastin district and a new Gigi's is coming to Mastin. Her son will operate that and it was just wonderful and all the mayor declared it as her day to day and all of the officials and everyone who was out. Thank you to this council for signing a joint resolution and it was read. portions of it at her service today. And of course we know that we lost two soldiers since our last meeting and so we pause in these chambers for all of the names mentioned even those who we do not know for a moment of silence. Thank you. Councilmember Wyatt has a presentation and council Men, he is asking for a joint photo at the end of it. So grateful to be the leader of a office full of women who are extremely talented and very, very sharp. Led by Sandra Munson and Doris Corley and Breonna Ferguson. Two young ladies. The first one is out one. Ms. Nina Zenske, who is just an incredible young lady. You know, right now is working on my Bailey Street Gate plan. And she's currently on school for her master's in urban degree and regional planning at UB. And my friend here, such a tremendous compliment. He said that he would have told it to someone. He's got the same work on his own now. Wow. I want to thank her for her stance as Ms. Buffalo's child support in 2018. And give her just a quick moment to say something because she has a tremendous job in my office. You know, as Ms. Buffalo, she still has a lot of things to do as well as work on her basket. I just want to give her a quick moment. Thank you so much. Since I came on board here at City Hall, my life has changed in so many different ways. And I had been crowned Miss Buffalo in January of last year. And then I came on board here in about late February, early March. So it was kind of still the beginning of my reign. And I keep saying that 2018 was the best year of my life for so many reasons. And one of the leading reasons not only being Miss Buffalo 2018 was coming into this family. that I get to work with is one of them. But I do want to thank the amazing women that have been able to be my role models for the last year. I can honestly say that they are examples of strong community-oriented, fantastically fabulous women and they have made a really positive impact in my life in the last year. And of course it was such a pleasure, I'm getting chills talking about it, but being able to crown one of my absolute best friends, Taisha St. Jean, Miss Buffalo, was just something I couldn't have even written in a storybook. It was, I remember when When I had a feeling it was her, I was standing on the opposite side of the stage and I just kept looking at her. And her face was just getting bigger and bigger as they called the third runner up, and then the second runner up, and then the first runner up. I'm like, it's gotta be her. And when they announced her, I screamed so loud and was shaking so bad that I was having such a hard time putting her crown on that it was just a mess. Thank you for accepting me into your family and thank you for being such great role models to me always. And now, if I can introduce the incoming Miss Buffalo. And her birthday is the same day as mine, as well, I thought. Aisha St. Jean, Miss Buffalo 2019. Aisha has been with me for about four years. Her and Bria, both who've gotten their masters. Bria got hers from Buffalo State. Got hers from Buffalo State. She got hers from Buffalo State. Great people around. He had to stay quick. He's like, for a while. I just am very thankful for the Buffalo Common Council. Counsel, any questions? My mom, my grandmother, God. community and to be the first Afro-Latina Miss Buffalo making history from 1930 is a pleasure But also representing a city that you guys are making so great So being Miss Buffalo is more than just an opportunity to be around the city But impact our youth and that's my job at this Buffalo and hopefully soon to be Miss New York in the summer But also it's great that Nina crowned me and having that relationship because we're empowered women empowering others And that's what Miss America is all about. We need to continue to empower young ladies and men around the city. It's just a blessing. So thank you. So if I can have my colleagues come over, we can take one joint. We'll have my colleague here in the middle. My colleague. Thank you. So the only pageant that I've ever been a judge in, and I had just been elected and Councilmember Rivera showed up, it was Miss Puerto Rican. And he warned me, he said, now that you're elected, you probably don't want to judge any contest because you're going to make somebody mad if you don't vote for him. And she was in that contest and there was a tie at the end and I had to vote to break that tie. And I'm just glad I voted the right way to break that tie. So congratulations. All right. Good stuff. Really, really, really good stuff. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on January 8th are approved. Gentlemen, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Hearing no objection does not take away your right as we go through the agenda for you to pause if you need to review one of the items. We are going from the top. On one submission of monthly report, motion to receive and file. second by councilman 311 item 2 report of sale 308 308 low pair motion to approve items 2 through 5 second by councilman 311 can we pause for one all right next item item 6 cash flow report december 2018 motion to send finance second by councilman white Item 7, Interfund Loan Fire Apparatus. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 8, Position Allocation Maintenance. Motion to send to Civil Service Items 8 and 9. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item 10, E-Payment Solution Vendor. Motion to send to Finance Items 10 and 11. Seconded by Council Member Furlow. Item 12, Notification Serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 13, block pruning. Motion to approve items 13 through 16. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 17, position allocation maintenance. Motion to send to Civil Service items 17 and 18. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 19, permission to accept 2018-2019 motor vehicle theft insurance fraud grant. Motion to approve items 19 and 20. second by councilmember fontana item 21 appoint police captain motion to send the civil service items 21 through 26. second by councilmember white item 27 food store license 160 dote motion to approve with conditions second by council member free lou item 27 food store license 441 walden avenue motion to send the legislation items 28 and 29. second by councilman franzay item 30 sale of concrete bollards Motion to approve items 30 and 31. I call my councilman, Franzen. Item 32, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 32 through 37. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item 38, notice of appointment, Council intern. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 39, notice of appointment, Mayor intern. Motion to receive and file items 39 through 41. Second by Council Member Colombo. Item 42, SEQR negative declaration 255 Hopkins. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member White. Item 43, PMHA trash corrals at Marine Drive. Motion to receive and file. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Franczak, who has the floor. That's not a receiving file, but sent to BMHA? That's the corrals, right? That's correct. Motion. Teresa in the brief Stephen felt motion is to my customer friends that motion is to send to the MHA second my customer friends Echo as a floor. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. This is a letter sent by Marilyn Gallivan who is a Very nice lady who has lived at marine drive for many many decades I mean she's seen the good days the bad days that so-so days and we know that this council certainly knows of all the issues with the BMHA and This is another one of those issues. And this is is that the convenience of being able to dispose of household trash within the comfort of the building in a proper place Has been changed by having going outside to a corral To throw garbage out and miss Galvin and certainly other residents of the marine drive apartments Are either elderly people? or they are handicapped people. And to go outside can be a very troubling thing. Now you can imagine, even for us, going outside on Saturday or Sunday or the last couple of days would be difficult for anybody, let alone a person who is elderly or having other issues. And she is just a... she's been there for so many years. She's been very concerned about some of the trends over the years. There have been a lot of issues there. And what I want is Mr. Brown, who I think is taking these issues very seriously, he's been here numerous times. He answers all the questions, taking the bull by the horns about the BMHA housing complexes and Marine Drive. So what I'm asking for is him to look at her letter, he and his staff, and to come back not with a form letter. I want them to come back with a careful analysis. Why did they do this? Why did they change the convenience for all the tenants to do it this way? Is it a question of money? Is it a question, you know, how can that be more convenient for the tenants? It isn't. So it's sort of taking away services they've come to expect and making life more difficult. So we don't want to do that. We want to make sure that people in public housing are treated like people in housing all throughout the city of Buffalo, respectfully and given the proper service. So I don't want to form a letter back saying, well, this is our decision, this is what we've done, and that's the end of it. I want something, and I've asked Mr. Urtha today in caucus to make sure we follow up with this, that this council, this council member wants a very serious response, and I want to see those services restored. If at all possible. And if not, then what's your alternative? So we're willing to be reasonable, but you have to don't take something away. I've received phone calls about this too, not only from Ms. Galvin, but from other people as well. So hopefully in a reasonable period of time. Better in the next two weeks, if not sooner. We need to have an answer on this. So we're sending it. I'm asking it to be sent to BMHA. Thank you. So if it's sent to BMHA, where would Mr. Brown respond to? Yeah, to Mr. Brown to respond. Just respond. To the council. To the council. Not only to Ms. Galvan and to the residents, but to this council so we know what's going on directly to us. Because we're watching this. I'm watching this. We all are watching this. So I don't want it to be just... put on a pile okay thank you very much uh mr president um we have forwarded many of complaints to BMHA, complaints that have come to this Common Council, and we've made the decision to forward them to either department or to BMHA. But we want the residents to know that yes, we do track the disposition on those complaints that we forward, and we discussed this briefly at caucus, that when we do forward a complaint on behalf of an individual, an organization, or an advocate, and we send it to BMHA, that they respond back to this Common Council as well, showing the people that we just didn't send it and we didn't care about your concerns that were valid. But there is a disposition to the complaint. So from this point on, when we get complaints whether it be advocates, whether it be residents, and we do forward to the BMHA that at least we get the courtesy of a response. And you're right, not just a form letter saying that we received it and we're looking into it, but the disposition of whatever the the concern was. So it shows the people that not only are we sending it, but we want to make sure that the problem was dealt with. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Next item. Petitions, item 44, use one marine draft for industrial artisan in N2C zone. Motion to send the legislation, items 44 through 46. Seconded by President Proton. Committees, civil service, item 1, appoint deputy comptroller. Motion to receive in files number one and two. Second by Council Member Revere. Finance Committee, item three, CDBP funding agreement continuation. Motion to approve the conditions. Second by Council Member Revere. Item four, approve to enter into contract for delinquent parking citation collection. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item five, concerns increasing parking meter fees. Receive in file five through and including eight. Second by Council Member White. Item nine, spectrum to raise prices for cable and internet service. Motion to receive in file. Second by Council Member White. Item 10, Department of Public Service Commission. Okay, those, once again, receiving file 10 through and including 13. All right. Second by Council Member Lingo. Item 14, lease of lots 1533 and 1537, Genesee. No objections. Now the motion from the committee is to receive in file 14 and 15. Second by Council Member Fiorilotto. Community Development Committee, item 16, report of sale at 932 South Park. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Ferenczak. Item 17, concerning unsafe crosswalks at Niagara Square. Motion to receive in file 17 and 18. Second by Councilmember Frioletto. And just on the 17, I do understand the gentleman's concern. I've been concerned about the vehicles. We spent a lot of money in that Niagara Square, and we still have vehicles parking in Niagara Square. I know we have the food trucks, got that. We approve that, but it's also being used by the media and other people, repair people. And I think with the amount of money that we put into that square last year, and just And just the way it looks, we need to work with Public Works and make sure that this is not a parking lot, a free parking lot. I have been working with Commissioner Stepniak to even find a place for media so that, you know, when they come, they'll have a place to park. But we definitely shouldn't be parking in that middle. I'm not thrilled about food trucks being there, except that there's no other place really to put them. And I'm only concerned about if they're leaking and that kind of stuff. you might have to look at this summer maybe they put something underneath it when they roll in when they park at least um to maintain that for the public thank you next slide legislation committee item 19 use three fifth one tacoma motion to approve second by councilman fontana item 20 use 1175 hurdle motion to approve with conditions second by council member fira little item 21 ordinance amendment chapter 168 Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rubio. Item 22, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 307, Parking and Parking Lots. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rubio. Item 23, Use Permit 1567, Hurdle. Joe, is this the one you wanted to approve with conditions? Okay, 20, that's approved. So vaping is without conditions? Vaping is approved. You like vaping? You're going to vape? No, just kidding. It's great to be. Thanks, Mike. Item 24, special use permit 69, Fulton. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golovkin. Item 25, special use permit 2637, Maine. It originally came without recommendation, and the motion is now to recommence. All right. Second by Council Member Wingo. item 26 zoning map amendment 259 mineral springs if there are no objections motion to approve 26 27 and 28 second by councilman fontana item 29 food store license 3154 bailey motion receiving file second by the president pro tell resolutions item 47 ordinance amendment chapter 479 traffic motion to send the legislation second by councilman freeway 48 he waiver for lovejoy pool motion to the motion to approve second by councilman Fontana 49 a point marriage officer Motion put that second by councilman friends at 50 ordinance amendment chapter 175 towing fees motion to send the legislation items Through 52 second by the president pro temp scandal item 53 Commissioner deeds motion to adopt I was 53 through 55 second by customer white and Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, January 29th, 9.45 a.m. Yes, can we go back to number 55, please? All right. Finish the announcements and then we'll come back. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, January 29th, 1 p.m. Committee on community development, Tuesday, January 29th, 2 p.m. now what's the item comes from oh sure we did oh yeah I just wanted for you because I got advice from the corporation council about this item because I wanted to make sure that there was a public meeting portion and we were told that the sensitivity of this because of the session of the assembly one day process it through or correct Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon, I think your question was whether or not you're going to get an opportunity to speak on the matter prior to this going into effect. And my answer was yes, given that this is just going to go to Albany requesting. There's no expectation that it's going to be passed by the Assembly or by the Senate. We're not sure what's going to happen. But in case if it does happen prior to then, you have an opportunity to hold public hearings. Thank you. maybe from next week to advise the public on what might happen if Albany was to pass it. So this is just a recommendation, a request to Albany. There's no guarantee that this is actually going to happen. Okay. So can we adopt the resolves and send the rest to committee? I mean, no. I don't think you can do that. That's approved, that's it? Yeah, adopted. We would have to adopt it and probably what could happen is we could ask council staff to set up an item that would allow you to hold another hearing to discuss this in detail moving forward. Okay, so if we can do that, I'd appreciate that. So we can have council staff put an item in so there can be discussion, but the only way approve and send as if it was a resolution, but this entire thing has to go as a home rule. Thank you. Correct? All right. Motion stands? Motion stands. Any announcements, council members? Those who are watching live, what's today's date so they don't come next week if they see a... The 22nd, I have a pop-up football game for the young people in Ellicott because they are out of school today. And it will be at Pratt Willard at 4 o'clock. It's only one hour. There will be hot chocolate and donuts and everything else to get them very hyper before I send them back home. And if any child is able to come, they can come. And it's free. And come enjoy the Ellicott district with us while you're out of school driving your parents. Because I'm sure they're all watching live. I know every kid in Buffalo is watching this live and will be there. Any other announcements? If not, Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn.