Roll call. President Pro Tems Bowman. Present. Council member Everhart. Present. Council member Farrelletto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Majority leader Houghton-Pole. Present. Council member Nowakowski. Present. Council member Rivera. Present. Council president Scanlon. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Corn is present. Please stand for the pledge. Pledge allegiance. Thank you for today's invitation. I would like to welcome to the floor Pastor William Pulliam of the Agape AME Church. You want to turn it on? I'll get loud and long speaking for the opportunity to be with you on this afternoon, despite the cold weather and the temperature. We thank God that we're able to assemble at a spring. Most merciful Father, Almighty God, we thank you for this time, this hour in which you have allowed us to come together. We thank you for those who have come to sit in these seats to take their place as councilmen. We pray that you would continue to grow them and use them, that they would see the things that you would have them to see. So give them the courage to stand before those in the community, that they may be the beacon in the community. But as we gather here in this space, in this place, we ask that you not only be in the question, but you be the answer. And that everything that's said and done in this room will be unified and be on one accord. So as we gather on this day, we say thank you. And we cannot thank you enough for what's going to take place on this afternoon. These are the things we pray. in your mighty name and everyone here said Amen. Amen and Amen. Let me just say this and I'll take my seat. The body, the body is made up of many parts and it takes everyone in the body to do there because one can't do without the other. So it is my pray that you move together on one accord because each part affects the other part and nothing is really done in the community until you are all on one accord making decisions for the people. You are here for the people. The people have chosen you, and I believe you have accepted the responsibility. So I thank you, and I just pray God will keep his head around you and lead you and guide you along the way. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor. Council members in memoriams, Council Member Glumberg. Thank you, Mr. President. North District Black Rock, Grant Amherst area, lost Linda Lavalley. She was a long time resident of the larger Black Rock Riverside community. She had been a member of St. Mark's Episcopal Church. as well as involved in some of the veterans affairs in the neighborhood. She's going to be very sorely missed by her family and friends. And also Tom Nola was a former Department of Public Works employee. He was a character, one of those good characters, interesting characters that gives Buffalo the fabric that it has. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his wife and family members. council member why thank you i'm just asking for the prayers of the city of buffalo for a dear friend that i just got messaged that he died joe boobus joe boobus was an employee from marine midland in hsbc for many many years and every quarter he would get the old timers together and we would have lunch and we would just share in fellowship he didn't have much he had a nephew and he had two birds but he was one of the nicest people you would ever meet And so today I ask for prayers for his nephew and his family who we lost a dear person, just a kind, gentle soul. We just keep his family in prayer. Thank you. Councilwoman Eber. Thank you, President Scanlon. As we're still standing, I too want to send prayers and thoughts to Edwin Jeter. Two weeks ago we lost our dear friend and community leader, Stephanie Barbara Jeter. We just moments ago left her funeral, which was a beautiful service celebration of her life. Stephanie Barber Jeter is the president of the Hamlin Park Taxpayers Association located within the Madison District. She is also the chairwoman for the Rock Group and her decades and decades of service to this community. She will be missed and loved forever. Thank you, President. No one else? In addition to those who've been mentioned, I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts and our prayers any service men or women who may have lost their lives since our last meeting in defense of this country. For those who've been mentioned and for those who were thinking up, we'll take a moment of silence. Thank you. To begin today's meeting, we have a special presentation from Council Member White. Mr. President, Ms. Patterson is running a little late. If we could, however you want to do it, we could do it then. We could probably do it during the- At the end of the meeting we talk about things going on in the district and stuff like that. Thank you. Yep, with that we'll, on a motion by Mrs. Leah Halton Pope, seconded by Mr. Bowman, the minutes of the stated meetings held on January 2nd, 2024 and January 9th, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the late files. Clerk, from the top, please. Item number one, State of Emergency Declaration for January 13, 2024. Motion to receive a file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Edible number two, appointment to Board of Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Edible number three, 23, 25, 27, 29, and 22, 24, 30, 32, designated developer agreement. Motion to send to community development. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number four, amend the report as so portion of 79, Sobieski, and portion of 74, Rother. Okay. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number five, designated developer agreement for 2969 through 2971 Bailey. Motion to move items five and six to community development. Seconded by Council President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number seven, report is cell 129 crop. Motion to send items number seven through 11 to approve item seven through 11. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Public Works, item number 12, notification serial to install one-way street direction on Coyle Alley. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Glumpack. Item number 13, permission to waive fees for RCWJCP project. Motion to approve items number 13 and 14. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 15, notice of appointment dispatcher. Motion to send items 15, 16, and 17 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 18, permission to increase contract for Oak Hill Park. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Ferrello. Item number 19, Full Store License 882 Northland. Motion to send a wedge. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 20, Garbage Collector License. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number 21, Request to Enter into Agreement for Ramp Management. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 22, Board of Ethics Minutes. Motion to send items 22 through 24, to receive and file items 22 through 24. Second by council member, going back. Item number 25, leave of absence. Motion to send items 25 and 26 to civil service. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number 27, notice of appointment. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 28, appoint labor to. Motion to sign items 28 and 29, civil service. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Miscellaneous, item number 30, strategies for improving school suspension policies and after school programming. Motion to send to education committee. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 31, concerning status of Airbnb special use permit. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Petitions, item number 32, special use permit, 1012 West Avenue. Motion to send items numbers 32 through 36 to legislation and the city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Glombach. Submission list, civil service, item number one, notice of appointment for account for typist. Motion to approve items one through two. Seconded by President Pro Tempoma. Item number three, notice of appointment for director of infrastructure. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Ferrello. Item number four, notice of appointment for senior account clerk typist. Motion to approve items number four through seven. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number eight, appoint recreation instructor. Motion to receive and file items number eight through including 25. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Finance, item number 26, acquisition fire apparatus for aerial ladder bound resolution. Motion is to approve items 26 through and including 55. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 56, September cash flow. Motion is to receive and file items 56 through and including 96. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Community development, item number 97, report is still a portion of 200 brickland. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Tempoma. Item number 98, designation of Urban Development Action Area for Mohawk Ramp. Motion to approve items 98, 99, 100, and 101. Seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Legislation item number 102, special use 420 Grant Street. Motion to approve items 102, 103, Item 104 is also unapproved. Item 105 is in the Ellicott District. Motion to receive item number 105. We didn't get to it yet. Sorry. So motions 102 through 104 approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 105, special use 424 Pearl. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 106, special use 209 Comstep. Motion to deny. Second. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 107, BASH for Buffalo Affordable and Safe Housing Initiative 1. Motion to receive and file items 107 through 110. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 111, special use 726, Linwood. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 112, Fuster License 3168, aka 3162 Main Street. Motion to deny. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 113, property manager for K&R Buffalo Management. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 114, new tire handler 2736 Bailey. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 115, special use permit 3047 Main Street. Motion to deny. Seconded by Council Member Glomberg. Resolution item number 37, set an end date for moratorium on full store licenses and small vape shops. Motion to adopt items number 37 through 39. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I have the location of the United States Postal Service in my district on William Street. And right now, I'm teaming up with Congressman Higgins and Senator Tim Kennedy on working with the local union members on making sure that these jobs do not go to Rochester. and to think of the magnitude of what could happen if they are to move, it could be a delay in service, it could erode and lose a reported up to eight to 46 positions. These are hardworking unionized positions that contribute to the fabric of our community, but it also can leave a large building in my district that currently houses almost 700 workers, vacant and abandoned. And I don't think that this decision to, To be able to do this at this moment has been truly engaging of the region's elected officials and the community around it. So I'm happy to adopt this, but this is something that I will be working on with other elected officials in the union moving forward. My office has been contacted by several of the union employees and other people around as well who have family members working there as well. So with the sponsor's permission, I'd love to be added as a co-sponsor. Please add me as well. Council member Hultenvoldt, Columbeck, Bowman, Bariletto. Everhart, Rivera, next item. Item number 40, Ordinance Amendment for Short-Term Rental, Chapter 380. Motion to send the leg. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 41, addition of members to the Affordable Housing Task Force. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Item number 42, BASH, Buffalo Affordable Safe Housing Initiative Report and Requests. Motion to adopt the resolves and send the remainder to ledge. Seconded by Councilmember Farrellotto. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. On item number 42, I believe is one of the directives for a vacancy study. And as someone that represents areas that have less mass amount of vacancy, those data statistics and numbers will help inform a lot of people on what is going on. With the sponsor's request, I'd like to be added to 42. Item number 43, bash Buffalo Affordable Safe Housing Initiative immediate actions and directives. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to ledge. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 44, Commissioner Beetz. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil services Tuesday, January 30th, 2024 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil services Tuesday, January 30th, 2024 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, January 30th, 2024 at 1 p.m. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, January 30th, 2024 at 2 p.m. Special committees will be committee on education Tuesday, January 30th, 2024 at 530 p.m. Thank you Mr. President and I'd like to bring down Ms. Bessie Patterson, well known lady in the city of Buffalo. And I am very, very proud to honor this woman today. She done done so much and I'm just not gonna read all the rest because I know what she's done she's one of those people that is not about talking but doing and She's done gospel fest for how many years? 1987 and I know that you've been doing the Martin Luther King celebration for 18 years and And at the time, it was passed down from the Honorable Clifford Bell to you. And I know sometimes in our community, we don't get the people who are willing to do the work and continue the legacy. And you had a great celebration on Sunday. And, you know, we just continue to thank you for all that you do for our community and especially ensuring that the. King memory continues and we honor those who continue to do the work because his work is not over. So let me just read the resolve. Let it be proclaimed by the Buffalo Common Council that we extend our deepest gratitude to Bessie Patterson for outstanding contributions to our community, recognizing her as a beacon of positive change and an inspiration to all who value community involvement. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. I humbly accept this Honor, I do the work that I do because I love it, and I like to serve people, and I appreciate you thinking of me. I always say that folks don't have to do anything for you. They don't even have to think about you as far as doing something nice for you. So I'm appreciative, I'm honored, and thank you so much, all of you, and especially my good friend here, Councilman Wyatt. Thank you. I love all of you. Okay, thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. Council members, we do have one item that we do need to revisit, item 38 under resolutions. Item 38, budget and personnel amendment for budget. Motion to rescind. Motion is to rescind the previous motion seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Motion to approve. Motion is now to approve, seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Council members, any announcements for your districts? President Potempo. Thank you, Mr. President. In the Lovejoy District, we are doing a citizen preparedness training, which is in conjunction with our governor. That will be at Schiller Park Senior Center, which is 2057 Genesee Street. That's Thursday, February 1st at 6 p.m. I think it's very relevant training with the weather we're having. It teaches you how to respond in severe weather events. And you do have to sign up, so it's very important you can sign up at www.prepare.ny.gov There's also a QR code. It could be found on my social media. And if you have any troubles, just give us a call at the office at 851-5151. Thank you. Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you President Scanlon. I do just want to say quickly that tomorrow, Wednesday, we will be hosting a public safety meeting around gun violence over at Canisius College at 5.30 PM. I am doing this event in concert with the New Yorkers Against Gun Violence. Obviously following 514, I have become an advocate in seeking gun reform, but also talking about the trauma of day to day gun violence. And so New Yorkers Against Gun Violence are coming into Buffalo tomorrow. So the public is invited, it is open, it is free to everyone to come and join in on the conversation. Thank you. Majority Leader Halton-Polk. This is not district, but this is a housekeeping? Just a reminder to members and the public that the last time to file is 2 p.m. on Thursdays. And we want to be very circumspect about when we do our late files going forward. Thank you. Anyone else? If there's nothing else, Mr. President, motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Thank you.