2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Fontana. Here. Council Member Franczak. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pritchard. I have a key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Forum present. Stand for the pledge. I stand for the pledge. Our Council Chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Some of you who get late breaking news on your phone like I do know that there was a shooting at a high school campus in Kentucky a while ago. A senior injured and two children died. I think that we've heard that story all too often. So I changed the remarks that I was going to have. Matthew 19, 14, Jesus said, let the little children come to me. Don't hinder them, for the kingdom of heaven belongs to such as he is. Children are just the future, the present. And guarding them, sorting them, protecting them is part of what society does, part of what this council does. I remember how many times memoriams have been given from each of you for children to die. Children who were injured, children at risk sometimes from their own classmates or parents or relatives, authority figures, buyers, gangs. There's all kinds of attacks on this next generation, and certainly the people and the families affected in Kentucky are thinking of nothing else right now but this. And it sobers all of us, every teacher, every administrator, every leader in this city. Your council districts have been impacted by bad things happening to kids. And it seems as though it's sort of increasing, but Jesus said, let the kids come to me. You think I'm too busy, but actually... Heaven looks a lot like this. In a whole lot of ways, heaven is a lot like those children. So would you join with me as we just pray once again for the children of the city of Buffalo. Father, even this news from Kentucky, as many times as we've heard it, still shakes us at the tragic and senseless loss. In so many ways, in so many measures, Lord, you know the pastors of this city who buried kids time after time after time. And you know, the certain pastors, certain bishops, certain churches have been places where it's happened even more often, where funerals have been done from those thanked to him. And Lord, watching a generation be lowered six feet under rips our heart and leaves us sick for a while. Father, right now I pray that each of us who is called to make an impact and to do things to protect the next generation will step it up and do it. And I pray for a culture of life to move among this generation, sometimes dead at their own hand in tragic suicide. I pray that life, you said to Ezekiel, to prophesy life, so we prophesy life over the next generation. And I ask now that angel armies would surround them in our city, protect them, guard them, guide them, make sure, Lord, that they get to their destiny. And, Lord, many of them change agents for a new Buffalo, a better Buffalo in the days ahead. Now bless these deliberations I am in Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain Warner. Council Members, any memorials? Councilmember Wyatt and Councilmember Galo. I guess it was so appropriate, Bishop, that you prayed for the children on Sunday so timely. I also want to pray for a middle school classmate of mine, Dana Morrow. I spoke at Olmstead High School's graduation last year and saw Dana. He was so proud his daughter had graduated with honors. It's so precious. Life is so precious. You never know what day God is going to call you home, but we pray for his family. and his daughter who is now in college. Thank you.
 Mr.
 Colombo? Thank you Mr. President. Joseph Kessler, dispatcher for the City of Buffalo, passed away earlier this month. Joe grew up in Black Rock, was a proud Black Rocker, although he did move down to South Buffalo. He sadly leaves his mom, Flo, his brother Dennis Kessler, Buffalo police officer, some of you might know from K-9, as well as his sister. We lost Russell Barbera, had been a long time Riverside resident. I went to school with his children. They were my age and a little bit older than me. Many of you know Obed Casillas. His sister passed away this week after a five year battle with cancer, Abigail Casillas Rodriguez. And Charles Chuck Gavidan, a neighbor of mine from Riverside, passed away after a very, very short battle with cancer. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends in Riverside. Thank you. Any others? hearing no others we also remember uh the past uh head of mt bank mr wilmer so yesterday uh there was a celebration at klein hands had the privilege a few weeks before he died of having lunch with him uh some of which i can share some of which i can't um although he was a a deep thinker um When he made a joke, I was leaned over the chair with some of what he had to say. But Buffalo Lawson, great supporter in so many ways. And I only wish Godspeed on the person who must fill the very large shoes. of Mr. Wilmers. And of course, our military and our civilians who have given their life since our last meeting all over this world for the freedom of others. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. You may be seated. I don't believe we have any presentations today. So on a motion to it, on a motion by Ms. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the State of Meeting held on January 9th, 2018 are approved. Gentlemen, all the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Now take away your right to object as we come to those items if you have not had time to review them. We're going from the top. Mr. Chairman, motion to take items 61 and 62 out of order. Motion to take 61. 61, what was it again? 61 and 62. Oh, the discharges? Okay. Second by Council Member Frey-Levitt. Before us. Discharges from Legislation Committee. Motion to discharge items 61 and 62. All right. Motion to adopt the discharge. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Council Member Franczak, you have the floor. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I would like to make a motion to deny this item with cause as prepared by the Law Department. I want to thank Ms. Karen Gordon for all the time she put into this, as well as Mr. Tim Ball, and it's for cause. And I will submit the reasons for cause. that I've enunciated in this report prepared by the law department and reviewed by me. The special use permit, the main issue is the proliferation of criminal activities that have occurred on Allen Street, which has been proven by the police calls of the objective police records in addition to meetings with the police department. In fact, one of which meeting you attended where the police have stated that there's too many people concentrated in too small an area and there has been a great decrease in the quality of life. Moreover, adding to that situation is that I learned that the establishment in question, 197 Allen Street, was recently fined by the State Liquor Authority for refusing to have an unlicensed security guard on the premises. Shortly after this citation of no security guard as required by law, In front of this establishment, which I've linked with a YouTube video of an Uber driver, shows a very raucous and frightening brawl of about 50 people that occurred in front of this establishment, which is only augmented by the... loss of parking of residents, the, well the most dire of course have been the thankfully few shootings that have occurred, but the tremendous loss of life of criminal activity from public urination, from confronting residents, swearing, yelling, damaging property, destroying property. You have attended those meetings, and you know the sentiments of the community. And we met with the attorneys for the bar. We did everything we could to bend over backwards. But the finding of this establishment, the proliferation of establishments that have caused these criminal activities, the law department feels pretty strong grounds that this denial is backed up, and I will... After the vote, I can provide this information. So we'll submit it for the record? That's right. All right. Mr. Chairman, we adopted the resolve. That item is in legislation, so you can do the denial when we get to it in legislation. All right. So we'll come back to it. We add that portion to the record so that when it comes back, those two will be joined and referenced in the record. No, we got one other item because we have... Motion. Take item 64 out of order. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. 64.
 Resolution?
 Mm-hmm. Item 64, investigating Shinda Property Management. With your permission, well, so this is a resolution, Shinda Property Management currently manages several properties allegedly with the Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority. The reason I'm asking for support on this investigation and one of the members of the two are here, several people are here from BMHA. This is very important because we're hearing mixed signals of who's responsible to do what. Who's responsible for the heat? Who's responsible to replace the heat? How long should it take to replace the heat? Who's responsible for smoke? All of these things. One party says the other one is responsible for certain things. The other party says the other one. So they've got a contract. First thing that this resolution asks for, trust contract. The council has the ability to do investigations and even has the power to subpoena if need be. I would hope that we would never have to use that power. for an agency that is receiving money to take care of largely foreign working class. They should just come forward and answer the questions. And then, and I was asked this question earlier, what would happen then? We have to see what we uncover as we start turning over these stones. Now, I want to be clear, we are not the BMHA. But at the end of the day, the things that affect our constituents, our people, especially our poor, it broke my heart to go into a house, person confined to a wheelchair, wheelchair enabled, who had no heat, had just got the hot water on, and had two space heaters in the place, was promised to be removed, to be moved somewhere else, and nobody showed back up again. So this is not a witch hunt. I want to be very clear. This is to make things better, or at least make an attempt to make things better by bringing this straight to the floor and to the council. So this resolution asks for Shinda to appear in our committee meeting on February the 13th. And the reason for that date is because we only meet every two weeks, obviously, in committee. And I've asked for some documentation so that we have the documentation, are able to review the documentation, so that we're able to do like Councilmember Fioletto does when he goes to court, to come in and know what we're talking about. And again, not a witch hunt, just trying to help the people who are part of BMHA. Mr. Chairman, motion is to adopt the resolves remainder to legislation. Second by Council Member Fontana. Thank you for your support. As done. It starts. All right, I think we can go from the top. Item 1, abandonment of sale of portion line beneath Buffalo River. Motion to send to CE. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 2, assignment of and assumption by Convectus Partners. Motion to send to legislation. And I meant to come to you, is there a reason we're sending this to legislation? This was just a name change Mr. Mahaffey told me. that it wasn't a change in the project scope of the project. They just changed partners. So I'm okay with this being approved if the council is. We can approve it. Motion is passed and approved. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 3, submission of monthly report. Motion to receive and file items 3 and 4. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 5, pay date equalization. Motion is sent to finance. Second by Council Member Kornbauer. Scanlon. Item 6, information plans, Frederick Douglass Towers. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 7, amend the Uniform Relocation Act. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Franczak. I made sex offenders registry awareness task force. Motion to send to CD. Second by the President Pro Temp. item nine requesting funding for coordinator positioning motion to send to police oversight president brooks upset i'm telling emergency repair casanova creek slope motion to approve items 10 through 14. say goodbye customer at the moment item 15 appoint supervisor of street sanitation motion to receive and file items 15 16 and 17. take my customer for your letter Oh, civil service. Which you meant to? Oh, motion to send to civil service. 15 through 17, 16 and 17. Motion, second by, yep. It was just a mistake. Same thing. Hunter White has the floor. Can we please go back to number 12? Motion to revisit item number 12. Second by Councilman Fontana. Okay, I was not comfortable with this because I still wanted to know what was the relationship between this wellness institute and the Apollo. So I'd like to send it to committee so that someone can come and talk to us about it because they are always on the government channel and I'm trying to understand why do they get time on the government channel and I can't even get time on the government channel for my own stuff. So let them come to us and talk to us about what their role is in being a part of the Apollo Would you like to send it to CD? Yes motion to send to CD So we already approved it. We need send the previous motion is to rescind second by councilmember. Why thank you Motion is now to send to CD second by councilmember. Why I Item 18, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Franczak. Item 19, appoint police inspector. Motion to send civil service items 19 through 27. Seconded by Councilmember Fieroletto. Item 28, appoint commissioner of fire department. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 29, approved to enter into contract with LCP Tracker, Inc. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 30, permission to settle Dorchester Block Club claim. Motion to approve. Second. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 31, food store license 981 Broadway. Motion to send the legislation items 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, and 37. Second by Councilmember Freyser. Item 38, lodging house licenses 203 St. James. Motion to approve items 38 and 39. Second by Councilmember Freylo. Item 40, appoint the building inspector. Motion to send to civil service item 40 and 41. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 42, appointing Commissioner of Community Services. Motion to receive and file items 42... True, and including 46. Second by the President, Proveso. Item 47, notice of appointment, councilor intern. Motion to adopt. Second by councilor White. Item 48, notice of appointment, seasonal. Motion to receive and file. Second by councilor Wingo. Item 49, notice of appointment, temporary provisional permit. Motion to send to civil service. Second by councilor Wingo. Miscellaneous items, item 50, brownfield cleanup 155, 157 Chandler. Motion to receive and file items 50 through 53. Second by councilor Fontana. item 54 request to speak at committee meeting on parking issues motion to send a CD by councilman white 155 letter regarding change to payroll schedule motion to send finance and my councilmember wing positions item 56 I'm sorry, President Hudson? Thank you. Last Thursday, the vast majority of the City of Buffalo employees were informed via an email from City Auditor Kevin Kaufman that their payroll schedule was going to change. Currently, the Buffalo Police Department and the Blue Collar AFSCME workers get paid on a separate day than the rest of the City of Buffalo employees. At first glance, this isn't a major issue, but if you delve into it a little more and really dissect it, it becomes a problem. These employees who are having their payment schedule changed, over the course of a seven-week period, stand to lose out on a week's pay until a later day, and that's unacceptable. It'll be pushed off down the road. It's very confusing when you look at it, and you really have to go over a number and number of times, and I've talked to people in a number of different departments here in the city of Buffalo, and they all seem to agree that at some point a week's pay will be pushed down the road. Again, like I mentioned, it is confusing, but at its most simplest form, from January 1st until the end of March, these employees are going to receive one less paycheck than they were scheduled to do so. and it's going to be pushed off down the road, as I mentioned. Many, many City of Buffalo employees live paycheck to paycheck. and they count on a consistent 14-day pay cycle. And during that seven-week period, you're going to see cycles of 18 days, 15 days, 16 days, things of that nature. And in the letter from the city auditor to the employees, it urges them to make any necessary adjustments. However, I think that's pretty unacceptable. I don't think the potential financial burden should fall on the backs of the City of Buffalo employees. The burden should fall on the back of that department that is initiating that change. These, again, while it's not just a financial issue, I see it and I have staff looking into it as a potential legal issue. I am assuming that there are either contracts or laws out there that lay out when employees are to be paid and I assume it is on a two-week cycle. I know they say don't assume things, but I am willing to assume that it says to be on a two-week cycle, not an 18-day cycle or 15 or 16 or whatever you arbitrarily decide you want to pay people. Because in my opinion, when does it end and where does it go to from there? I understand what they're doing and why they're doing it. My problem is with how they're doing it. So next week, I'm asking that this item be sent to finance and next week, Ken Barnes from MIS, Tim Ball from law, Don Estrich from administration of finance and the controller to come to finance to discuss this. That'll be next week that it's discussed? And I think I asked you this earlier, will next week be enough time to catch catch it to make some changes. You know what, maybe we actually have staff set up a meeting in the interim, have a meeting before then with all those included. I think that's important so that if there is a fix that it could happen rather rapidly and I know you've suggested some ways to fix it and I think you know when when you look back at it, it is rather important because I think I heard, either heard or read that employees can go for cash advance, however, that's paper-intensive too, or that's labor-intensive. And through conversations with a couple of people, it says, you know, no one's really losing out, no one's being harmed. Well, they are clearly being harmed. If you're offering them in advance, you're offering them in advance for a reason. It's because they're being harmed. They will not have the same amount of money in the bank when they should have had it in the bank. That's why you're offering them the advance. And if they take the advance, they're only going to be harmed on the back end when they take out the checks at the end of March. So, again, they're asking employees to take on this potential financial burden and make adjustments to their payment schedules when it can simply be done here through our processes. Thank you. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I thank my colleague, Council Member Scanlon, for stepping in the gap in this situation. Because it just sometimes seems like we're the only ones that care about the people. And I just don't understand how you put forth a process like this that we know that is challenging. We understand the importance of it. To say that people need to make arrangements when many people are paycheck to paycheck is kind of asinine. They should have brought something to us months ago. This shouldn't have been brought to us right now. This should have been done by the end of the year. We're doing it now. And then people have to make adjustments who probably can't afford to make any adjustments. So I'm hopeful that they will come and have a clear plan for what people can do. And it shouldn't be a cash advance. They should have a process in place where people do not go without. If they have to go... If there has to be a change, they should be getting advance in their paycheck for the four or five days that they're going to be short at one pay period, because you're not going to overpay them. So if you pay them for three weeks instead of two weeks or two and a half weeks, it will definitely help them pay them in advance so that they They can't put those dollars where they will have them in their hand to do something So if they have a pay a bill they can pay that bill But they should never be short and didn't have to make adjustments because we don't know their situations So I commend councilmember Scanlon for having a sensitivity to people ordinary people who don't have Dollars and dollars in the bank. They have to borrow sometimes at the rock Peter to pay Paul So we certainly don't want to cause that cause them any more heartache when they work every day they should get their full paycheck and if there's something we need to do to adjust our payroll system so it's more efficient then let's adjust it but they should not be penalized thank you thank you mr. chair I I do agree with with the sentiment that employees I think it's a little asking a little much in some regards to ask in such a short period of time for people to make adjustments. And I also agree with the concept of a meeting. And that's why I took my staff down to the floor, the 12th floor, to understand this a lot better. I read the letter from Councilmember Scanlon and I understand his frustration. There are seven days that need to be accounted for when you are pushing back a payday so that everyone has the same payday. Then I went down to the 12th floor and I spoke to the comptroller, spoke to the city auditor, and I spoke to the deputy comptroller, and they explained what's going on to me. Now, the City of Buffalo employees, we have a 14-workday period. As of right now, we get paid five days after that work period is over. And that puts a lot of stress on the staff to get us paid so quickly. So, instead of paying us on the fifth day after our last paid work day, our last work day, we'll get paid on the twelfth day with everyone else. So that gives the payroll department and our auditors, everyone, a chance to get everything straight so there aren't any errors in our finances. So I don't know if all of our councilors got this response that was filed, but I actually went down to 12. I didn't wait. I went down and I wanted to get an understanding of this equalization project. And I did. And from what I see, It's just as Councilmember Scanlon says, I don't want anybody to think that I don't understand what he's saying. I hear what he's saying, but I believe the intent of what he's expressing is the fact that the first four days of what he put in his letter means that instead of getting paid that fourth day, the fifth day after you get paid, you would have to wait an additional four days to get paid. And then the next time you would have to wait one day to get paid. And then you would have to wait an additional two days to get paid. But we're not necessarily missing a pay period. You're just having to make up those seven days from the date that we would have originally gotten paid. So they're doing it progressively, in moderation, I should say. They're doing this in moderation. It's, I believe, a necessary change. I believe it's a good change. And I'm not taking sides here. I just believe that in order for us to be, well, we do have our fiduciaries. In order for us to be judicious moving forward, I think that this is a good policy. And if there is a better way, which I'm not a CPA. I don't know. But if there is a better way, I mean, maybe they can find one before they actually implement this process. But for right now, if this is what all of the CPAs and professionals and the auditors have come up with, I believe that we just have to do our due diligence as public servants. Even though we live paycheck to paycheck, no one's getting rich off of working for City Hall. I understand the sentiment. I understand. I understand the frustration. I understand the outrage. But as public servants, none of us are trying to get rich off of working here in City Hall or for the public. So I think our responsibility would be to take this four days and do the best that we can and set a good example and show the rest of the city how we can do our due diligence, making sure that everyone's being financially responsible with the city's money. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. um thank you mr president um like i stated my problem isn't what they're doing i understand why they're doing i get it i understand the urge to get everyone on the same pay period to avoid um mistakes in payroll i know there's a crunch there sometimes with um the police and the blue collar workers overtime things like that i know it's a lot of work to squeeze in in just a couple of days there for them i understand that my problem is how they're doing it We are talking about an 18-day period, a 15-day period, and a 16-day period where people are not prepared to do that. You can have people who may work, I won't give a job title, but someone works here, could be a single parent making $35,000, $30,000 with a couple of kids. They need that money when they have it planned. There's no reasons for them to be tinkering with it. What they could very easily do is cut a one-week check somewhere in the middle of all this and put everyone on the same pay schedule. But for some reason, they don't want to do that. I know, I believe, so I look forward to the meeting, and we'll figure all this out at the meeting. And so they'll be next week, and so this is, I mean, one of the suggestions is to do a one-week gap check, and everybody's on the same page, nobody's lost any page, so next week they'll be heard at what time? We'll have to reach out to those involved. Oh, it's not going to be at the committee. Quite frankly, it's time-sensitive, so it's probably better that maybe we schedule something between now and next Tuesday. I agree. Good. Alrighty. Anyone else? Next item. Petitions. Item 56, special use permit 751 Walden. Motion is sent to legislation and city planning board. Okay.
 Alright. Second by Council Member White. Committee. Civil service. Item 1, appoint laborer 2. Approve items number 1 and 2. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 3, notes of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Receiving file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Finance Committee. Item 4, popular annual financial report. Motion to receive in file 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. All right. Second by the Majority Leader. Committee of Development Committee, Item 10, Reporter Sale, 23, Victoria. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Legislation Committee, Item 11, Tire Handler, License 301, Daly. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item 12, used car dealer license 301 Bailey. Motion to approve. Thank you, Vice Council Member, for your letter. Item 13, special use 901 Furman. 13, I defer to the District Council Member on 901 Furman bike path. I'm sorry motion to approve motion to approve second by council council member Y 114 special years 1083 Tonawanda 14 and 15 motion to approve second by council member I'm 16 food store license 1018 Broadway motion to approve second by councilman Wingo I'm 17 special use 568 Niagara motion to approve with conditions I Second by the majority leader. Item 18, use 1164 Main Street for electronic message center. Motion to approve. Second by the majority leader. Item 19, use 197 Allen. Motion to deny with cause, of which I have the written reasons. So, for the record, the cause has been stated earlier in this session. The cause will be submitted in writing to the council. to the clerk it will be submitted in writing to the city clerk made a part of the public record and the council member has stated his reason for the record earlier in the meeting when the item was discharged right thank you item 20 special use permit 3021 bailey originally came without recommendation the motion is now to approve second by no no no motion to table oh i'm sorry motion motion to recommit recommissioning sorry second by council member why thank you claims committee item 21 through and including 54. motion to motion to approve items 21 through item 54. Second by Council Member Golombek, and if I could just ask a question. I wasn't in the claims. I'm not going to ask a specific question, but I know that there, well, I am without an item. There was a large claim. Was there any discussion on ensuring that that doesn't happen again? Like, what is the... Council Member Fontana, on the $3 million claim with the person that was injured, we did ask questions about the timing of it because there was a signpost left in the ground and then grass grew around it and he hit that and then tumbled. I asked, was it the first cut of the season, third cut of the season, was it sitting there the whole season and no one did anything? I guess it was the first cut of the season in the spring and somebody had removed the tel-spar pole from the base Probably stole it, because they don't see any signs of rust on the thing, and then left a hazard. So it wasn't a city person who took it out? It could have been a thief. Okay. So that was the problem. It was gone. I was more, and I'm not at all laughing at the situation. What I'm laughing at is we have no idea who took this thing. No, and I asked if it was Rusty, too. I wanted to make sure that it wasn't a city worker who removed it and we didn't put a process into place. And this is really not about this claim that I'm asking. It's about all of our claims, where if we're deficient, At the end of the day, we approve it, but I think we need to start hearing what is the remedy? What have they changed so that we don't get the same type of claims over and over? Or we don't end up with an individual that's, you know, severely injured. There were five poles put up, I guess, by the city of Buffalo. Four were left, and this stub in the ground caused a lot of havoc. So that was my same line of questioning as to why is there stuff in the ground. Is it July and no one did anything all summer and then the state guy comes in and hits it? But it was a springtime first cut of the season and it was literally... Boys, what we're using right now, and I'll come right then to Councilman Scanlon, is what we're using right now, whether it's this or any other injury... Is it the best thing to be using? Because that's a two-piece sign, so you take the top off and the bottom is there. If it was all one, it would have all had to have been removed. And again, I'm not questioning this claim. I'm questioning what our procedures are after we do claims. Good point. To ensure that this council and the administration is not just either approving or denying claims, then we see there's a problem, we're doing nothing. Because I think about all the claims I've sat in where Obviously the city felt like we should pay it, we should pay it, our attorneys, but at the end of the day, if it's misconduct or if it's a policy or a system that needs to be changed, I think that needs to be brought to this council at times or else we'll just keep repeating. And Peter, it could be hard again. Your current signage, the due take, the larger base, hammer that into the ground as far as they can go. It should be up about a foot though. This might have been a little lower. It should be about a foot above the ground so that way when you put the smaller telus bar in, then put your bolts through, two bolts, you can't put the telus bar base flush because then you'll never get the bolts in because you can't go underground and do the bolts. So it did leave quite a hazard without the sign. Right. And again, not on this case, uh, Councilman Scalise. You sure? Not on this case, but in the entire way that we handle claims. Because at the end of the day, whether it's a, we, it was our negligence. The one thing I have never seen is the remedy. Never comes back like, well, this is how we're now doing this different. And this is how we're training different. It's, we pay, and then it goes away. And I don't think that that's the best way to have it. We should, we should, on that vein, they should do a sweep of the area, a visual sweep, to make sure there are no hazards. to the drivers. I mean, I never drive my tractor into a vacant lot that I haven't cut before because there could be a whole bunch of stuff in there. But is that a policy? That should be a policy. And they should be coming back. And I think that this council needs to start asking, what are we doing now to ensure... I don't want to see... The claim is big, but this is not about the claim. At the end of the day, we have someone... And I'm not going to... Because I don't want to use this for fodder for something else, but... At the end of the day, we need changes in policy when we find that there's been, and that's my overall, not just in this one. You're right, Mr. Fonseca. Council Member Fonseca. Council Member White. And I think during the claims meeting, we should make a recommendation once we understand so that we do know, because we did ask. during our last claims meeting about some of the issues regarding police and fire because we want to make certain that those individuals have gotten some training or something. How do we know to get that feedback that something is taking place so it doesn't happen again? How do we know that it's not a pattern? Like right now we should hear that. Right. So Tim did say... Corporation Counsel said he would try to give us some information. He can't give us personnel files, but at least he can let us know that this has been done. Because I agree with you. If we're just solving claims or approving claims and there's no remedy to ensure that that problem doesn't happen again, we're basically just saying, okay, let this continue to happen. Yeah, yeah.
 Good. All right. Thank you all. Thank you for indulging me. It also could be a budgetary item, too. We were getting a ton of tree claims, Dave and members over there, and so does Joe. So the next couple of years, we put more money in the tree budget to cut down on the claims. We were getting claims from the impound over in Joe's district. We put up some new fencing. So those are things that we've done. And those are remedies. But best practices, though, is important, and the remedy is important. Yep, I agree. All right. It saves lives more than anything. The health and welfare of people.
 All right, great. Next item. 155 claims, committee agenda. A motion to receive and file. Second by Councilman White. Education Committee, item 56, parent and family engagement. Motion is to receive and file items 56 through and including item 70. Second by Councilman Frenzik. Resolutions, item 57, amendment to UDO for use of EIFS. Second by Council Member Golombek. I'm in the negative. We'll count Council Member Golombek in the negative, Council Member Friar-Leto in the negative. Alright. And Council Member Franczak in the negative. Excuse me, I'm in the negative as well. Alright, roll call. Let's do a roll call so we can make sure whether this passed. But it was second. I didn't give it a second. Did I give it a second? You can still call it a roll call. I'll second it. Alright, but I want a roll call vote. You want to speak to that? Just before the roll call, to get the word out, this is a modification to the green code as it pertains to the use of insulation and then essentially stucco on buildings. It's called drive-it. And many, many people in the city of Buffalo have been trained in this practice through the unions over the years. There's many people in my district, University, Fillmore, South, and other districts that are trained in this process. And I know them because they're trained craftsmen in the process. The current use is limited to just 20% of the second story floorage. That's all you could use it on. Nowhere else in the building that you could use this if you're doing renovations or new construction, I should say. So we're just looking to see if we can have a discussion before the council. before this has passed essentially. We want to see if we could have this changed for more use of the material. I was at Salvatore's the other night having dinner. It's on Salvatore's Italian Gardens. We've seen it on the use of motels, hotels, new buildings all across western New York. And it's used exclusively in the, extensively in the south as well. I was told it was banned essentially from the green code or given special use status because it's not as durable material that people want. I'm not going to go hit buildings with a baseball bat every day. I mean, I know brick is much more durable, siding is probably more durable, and then wood is more durable. But I still think it's a durable enough material for our climate that it does work in our climate. And I'm just simply stating that many, many craftsmen in western New York will be put out of work because of this being eliminated from our code. With it being just a use, a special use item only, you have to get a variance to use it. No one's going to spec it being special use only because they're not going to spec the item in their bids if it's going to need a special use. They just won't do it. They'll use other services. And that puts people out of work that are essentially trained to do this. All right. So there's a second roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Did you want to speak to that? Yeah. Just a question. I don't know if Council Member Fontana has the answer. Sure. He's saying people will be put out of work. Is there... Is it a matter of just simply not wanting to use a different material, or is it training that would be required to use a different material? Yeah, there's many people in the city of Buffalo that are trained on this specific use, this specific task, and they're good about it. They might not be a brickman. They might not be a cement mason. They might not have a skill in other fields. This is what they do. This is extensively used in other parts of western New York, extensively. And I felt that it should still be used in the city of Buffalo. Or, you know, look, if we can't come to a full use, maybe it's just used a little easier in the city. But right now, you can't use it on the first floor at all. It's only allowed to be used on the second story and only 20%. So essentially, you could frame some windows in it on the second story. Let me ask you this. Would you be opposed because you're asking for approval on this to send this to committee? Well, am I asking? I could send it to committee. Oh, we're sending it to legislation for discussion. Yeah, we're sending it to legislation. So that's the only reason I'm okay with it because it's not coming to us for an approval and that allows for more conversation. Yeah. Okay. Hearing that, roll call. And the motion to send to legislation. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Fontana. Yes, sir. Council Member Francik. No. Council Member Golombek. No. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. No. Council Member Scanlon. To go to committee, yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. And we're sent to legislation 5-4. And just for the record, so that people watching, and this is always good that this happens in this chamber, to have these type of discussions. So, this is not the law at this point. We voted to send it to committee where it would be talked about, and maybe people from the industry could come in, uh, people on both sides could come in, so. Thank you. Good. President? Next item. 158, revised hearing portion of land beneath Buffalo River. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fronten. Item 59, transfer funds, police safety equipment. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Mingo. Item 60, invest Buffalo Billion Part 2 in 950 Broadway. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item 63, encouraging transparency with local government organizations. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Franczak, I want to encourage anybody who may be against this to come and speak whenever the chairman of CD brings us forward what this resolution asked for us for other city departments to begin to broadcast their meetings live on government access all of most of which I'm on the board but a lot of times people don't understand what these different departments is Bureau but see you name it and so to not only broadcast it live but to make it available for replay on our website and so it calls for 2019 basically deadline giving people time into 2019 and city time if it has to buy equipment if this is passed as law in the city of Buffalo and I just think it should be I think that this council has been recognized for being transparent Let's make sure all of our departments are transparent, easy to use, and people to understand. Thank you, sir. Sirs. Next item. Item 65, Buffalo Eastside Arts Task Force. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 60. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. Chair. We are asking that we form a committee. or a commission to look at some of the artwork that's been displayed on the east side of Buffalo to see how it can be either modified and or made more appropriate. And we have had organizations from our community come out and say that they would like certain things to be looked at. So what we want to do is comprise a commission or a task force that will do exactly that. And I would just ask that a couple of these, this resolution be sent to our Black Club Coalition and also to the Martin Luther King Commission to the community to save our Martin Luther King Park. So is this for a task force, a community task force? Mm-hmm. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Councilman Franza? Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. You know, it's interesting because I've been watching a little bit some of the commentary that has recently surfaced regarding the image in Martin Luther King Park about whether the resemblance of Martin Luther King Park, whether it was supposed to be a resemblance, whether it wasn't. And I recall that when it was dedicated in 1983, a lot of the discussion in the community was that, of course, it did not resemble Martin Luther King Park. And I saw Cliff Bell recently speaking, who was on the Common Council at that time, saying it wasn't supposed to. I don't know if it was or it wasn't, but I will say this, is that what I would think would be good, and some years ago at the Buffalo Public Library on Martin Luther King Day I spoke, I did a little historical presentation on Martin Luther King, and so I became interested in his life and his commitment to social justice and so forth. And then a few years ago I was in Washington, D.C. and I had my picture taken in front of the statue of Martin Luther King that was built just a few years ago and that is absolutely magnificent. And I put it on my Facebook. And I think that's probably the greatest image anywhere I've seen in the world. Having said that, Um, there should be a representational image of Dr. Martin Luther King, not just, you know, it should be for everybody to see. Because they'll say, oh, we'll put it on the east side, you know, we'll put it to, the fact is, is that we should have it downtown. There should be a representational statue of Martin Luther King downtown in downtown Buffalo. And I think that our Buffalo Arts Commission should look at that. I don't know, you know, Mr., um. Wingo's task force wants to look at that whatever they decide they want to do is fine. You know what should happen in the community You know, so I think that that should be celebrated more than just in it Just in a neighborhood and I and I will all of you put a new statue that is looks like Martin Luther King I'm not denigrating the statue that I'm not criticizing the statutes there. I don't remember all of that the particulars when they was a well-known african-american artist and he built that and i do recall people saying gee it doesn't resemble martin luther king i don't know if he was supposed to cliff bell said that not necessarily because he's a council member at large he didn't say that was necessarily the case so i can't refute that one way or the other all i know is i think it's a discussion worth having and mr wingo i think is putting in that resolution is uh It's a very good thing to do, but I think in the wider picture, I think a true representation of Martin Luther King should be done in the city of Buffalo that, you know, you can't create the same thing that was created in Washington, D.C., but something that is appropriate to be commemorated. I agree. Councilor Origo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with my colleague that there maybe should be a monument of Dr. King for the entire city to enjoy. I just wanted to share this. When I remember specifically walking up to this veiled statue when I was four years old, wondering what's underneath this big sheet. I was there, my sisters and brothers were there, my mother was there. And it was cold that day. I remember being cold. I don't remember what all the speakers said. I don't remember, you know, some of the other little minor details of that date. The one thing I do remember about that date is when they pulled the curtain, all of the gasps that I heard, and the way people, the way I interpreted people to feel was disappointment. And that's not, again, it's not to be denigrating toward the art itself or the artist, but I do specifically remember The disappointment with all of the people who actually seen it, and then as I grew up and I looked at the statue or the bust, it doesn't resemble Dr. King at all. And this task force is just being put in place to ensure that things that are going up that can be considered artwork on the east side of Buffalo is representative and appropriate so that everyone can enjoy. Thank you, Mr.
 Chair. Thank you. Appreciate it. Anything else? All right. Next item. Item 66, Budget and Personnel Amendment, Division of Audit. Motion to approve items 66 and 67. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 68, Commission of Deeds. Deeds. Motion to adopt item 68 and 69. Take by Council Member Bondana. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, January 30th, 945 a.m. Oh, it was we committee. I'm sorry. It was. That item was rejected. Okay, thank you. Committee on finance following civil service. Committee on community development, Tuesday, January 30th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, January 30th, 2 p.m. All right. Any announcements? Hearing none. House of Representatives. Motion to.