President. Council Member Hernandez. Here. Council Member Goldman. Here. Council Member Williams. Present. Council Member Rubello. Present. Conference Prize. I'm going to read it to you. For which it stands, one nation, a court's capital, co-ed, and city-state, will have usually chosen ties to that Holy Spirit. I'm going to read Isaiah 5 from Isaiah 10. You know, the men of Sibyl, all of those who were poor, who renewed their strength, will soar up in these lanes of the people in that Scripture.
 Last couple of days, somebody's lost their wind. They said the bill's just going to be a book of things that we could not grow up and not think. I want to pray for you as leaders of the city, citizens of the city, that have done all that for us. Thank you for the treasure you have in this town. Thank you for the scripture. Thank you for the healing. We're the flies hiding in the snow. The analogy here is good.
 for those who believe that he's not in constant distress, that this is the game that's real life every day. I've heard him suffer with so much emotional currency. Each of us spends a little on the side of their knees. And it happens day after day. We get what we want today. I hear from the 40-year-old. Newly, they'll renew their strength. That those sore-eyed, waist-length eagles have run. Thank you, Father, that you're the powerful God able to do that more than your precious son. Thank you, Father.
 The president of the North District lost the leader of the military, Joe Sasson, who went home to hear that one of the TV stations. To let us know there was a problem, you know, that were preceded to me. I'm not sure we get a pencil. He died at 98 years young.
 His wife Audrey, right about now, who agreed to cease him. He's leaving his children, his family, his friends, his constituents on Military Road. And myself, back in the North District. He's going to be especially sore and really missed by his very, very dear friend, Carol Lozvina. So, just as I mentioned this before, it's beautiful and one of the most sad parts about our job is the number of people that we get to know.
 And, you know, we lose a lot of other people being asked for or requested to do. And this is the sad part. But he has such a wonderful family. I just can't say enough about him. So thank you. Thank you. Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I'm going to miss this meeting. I'm sorry, I don't think I'm going to wait for the right to choose. Second by Council Member Fier, Senator Ryan. I'll go with Senator Ryan. Second by Senator, Senator. Second by Council Member Sanders, Senator Serves. Second by Council Member Kennedy.
 second first got a phone call from mr
 other utilities from the city of Buffalo. And they were concerned about that for utilities. And I had some questions about it as well. And so I urged them to send a letter to the council. I said, my answers to the service, I said, well, didn't you guys give me answers to worry about the self-law? And I invited them to come in and go to the council
 I could look into this, but according to them, retirees are not able to go out and pay, you know. And I had concerns with that. That doesn't seem right. That doesn't seem fair. Brought in this. So, hopefully we'll be able to find this out and make our retirees whole. Charlie Davis, Charlie. He's another one that just called me to try to check on this. So, thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Chair, and the members of the service. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President,
 The reason I sent him to the border department is because we know that the moment he goes through the intakes, and when you say that you're not using fluoride, that means he deserves a lot of family and children. He generally doesn't have to be children, but in this case, he's concerned about some children.
 to be paid. So we're asking them to explain exactly what they've decided to do, why they've decided to commit. In fact, they have decided to cease using floor records. More, they've decided to make the conviction when they stop floor records. It's just introducing. So we need to know those answers until we hear from the labor authors. So we have a place to come in on the 31st, and I hope you respond to what I've said. Thank you very much.
 for them to respond to what's happening. I love that belief. So thank you. And then this letter, but it also speaks to transparency. We're going to be pouring the water. Here, we had a conversation about this. So we need to have a disability as one of those things that we can open our eyes and say it's going to happen in Michigan. We don't want to have a conversation. There shouldn't be any change. Correct. One thing on the water. No. That's good. I'll be out here if we have to. Bye.
 I think it's not something, it's something people leverage on there. It's a fortunate discussion. Petition. Motion to send a legislative order. I'm sorry. The protest is dead. I can't provide a council member. I'm a majority leader. I take a vote in the committee. I'm a second. I'm a second. I'm a second. I'm a second. I think it's a legislative order. That was on our case. It was a legislative order. The state has that. We also have a public finance for the second part of the RIP.
 in the second case in 2019. I've asked, and I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked. And I've been asked.
 but it's not only here in the city. Our CPR training for our employees is also a short conversation with our HR department and they're interested in working together. We'll develop this further throughout the community. We need to provide . Please make some legislation. If the owner, there was some concerns in your area, or the owner became almost conditioned and didn't eat. And so this owner said now, the rest of the various lines that he understood, being like this, because it always seems like
 it doesn't