FONTANA, PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER FRANZICK, HERE. COUNCILMEMBER GALOMBET, HERE. COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRISGEN, ATTEND. COUNCILMEMBER RIVERA, PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER SCANLAN, PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER WINGO, COUNCILMEMBER WYATT. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner, and we have a special guest that was actually previously scheduled to be with us, and we're glad that he could. Thank you, Comrade President. I scheduled Bishop Franklin some time ago, and today was the first day in his busy travel schedule to join us. As you know, we've had the clicker here. We'll be having him again in June because it's important to have some of the fatherly voices of the city, I think, come and be able to bless and represent the city among us. He is the Bishop of the Diocese of Western New York, 60 churches throughout Western New York City overseas, and he's going to now remark to us. Thank you so much for the honor of this invitation to be with you today. Let us pray. Almighty God who's given us this beloved city of Buffalo for our heritage, we humbly beseech you that we may always prove ourselves a people mindful of your favor and glad to do your will. Bless our city with great industry, sound learning, pure manners. Save us from violence. and confusion from pride and from every evil way. Defend our liberty and fashion us into one united people brought to Buffalo from many nations and from all races. Endure us with wisdom and endure those who serve us on this council to whom we entrust the authority of government. Great wisdom. Bless their family. Give them strength. to do this work of government, that there may be justice and there may be equity in all our neighborhoods. And through obedience to your law, we may show forth in this chamber your praise among the cities of our nation. In the time of prosperity, fill us with thankfulness. In the day of trouble, suffer us not to lose our trust in you. All of which we ask in the name of you, O Lord our God, Amen. Amen. Thank you, Bishop, for being with us. Thank you, Chaplain, for being with us. And Council Members, Memorials, Council Member Golombet. Thank you Mr. President. Riverside lost a long-standing fixture this past week. Louis Lagos Riggler, he was a victim of communist aggression in communist-occupied Hungary. He fled here after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. He and his wife and children ultimately ended up settling in Riverside. They worked very, very hard. They bought a storefront, and they ended up doing very, very well for themselves and for their children and their grandchildren, their great-grandchildren. But Louie will be sorely missed. He was 90 years old. I just saw him maybe about three or four months ago. And just a great guy and a great character. And he would always tell me, for a Democrat kid, I'll vote for you. Any others, council members? Council member Wingo, who is on the way, asked that we would acknowledge Gwendolyn Hall, former council member of course, Madison District, David Collins. not record theater Doris Records owner Matt Gucci all of them were funeralized this weekend and Otis Tillman has Tillman who was funeralized this weekend from true Bethlehem Church pastor Kenny Simmons doing the services but all of these losses are very active buffalo Nians and people who love Buffalo will be missed. Council Member Franzen? Yes, thank you Mr. President. I'm glad you remembered Councilman Dave Collins. I served with Dave Collins. Dave Collins was a long time chairman of the Finance Committee but probably him being a council member wasn't the first and foremost about who he was. He was, in the best sense of the word, he was a great activist. He was in the unions, very active in the unions. He was very active but the least among us, you know? He lived right there across from Martin Luther King's spray pool and the museum, a beautiful, humble parkway. But his greatest sense of activism was for working people, essentially. Working people, poor people. He was he had a very very nice Personality very always approachable and I remember him after he left the council still very very active he didn't like fade away or anything he stayed very very active and then I At his funeral this past Saturday, I bumped into some people and I saw Jeremy Zellner and I said, oh, you're just showing up. I served with him. He said, well, I was too young, he said, but he was very active in the Obama campaign. He was active in many, many things, some things I didn't know about. So I remember him very, very well. And we always had a great relationship, so it will be sort of a miss. Councilmember Fontana, I know you know him well. I know you knew Mr. Collins. I did. In fact, when I first started he checked me out, made sure I had the right ilk for the job, and we had a few different times we met for lunch and had a great time with him all the time. Wonderful family as well. I didn't serve with Dave, but he was a fantastic individual that really looked out for the City of Buffalo. At the other end of the equation, David, He was with us quite a long time, but unfortunately we lost a young man in Lovejoy this week to a fire. Mr. Anthony Conte, a 7-year-old from Lovejoy's Discovery School, from Benzinger Street. It's the heart of Lovejoy's future. Unfortunately, he succumbed to the smoke in that fire, and we offer our prayers to the family. We've been with the family all week, and we offer them our prayers. Absolutely. councilman also want to speak to um the loss of councilmember collins who of course i didn't work with um but to be at the funeral and hear the many many stories of how he may change people's lives a call for me to be more insightful in how I help people. So, you know, we mourn the loss and pray for his wife and his children, as well as we want to mourn the loss of Cardell Green and his mom past. He's our executive director for telecommunication. I just heard that she passed and I want to give him and his wife our condolences as well. Absolutely. And I read them all. Yeah, they gave me your list. All four, all been read off. If there are no others, we also remember our men and women who have served our country all over the world for the freedom of not only those of us who are here, but for those of us on this earth. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. Today we are honored to have with us from the Buffalo Public Schools, The premier choir from the Buffalo Performing Arts under, of course, the direction of their musical vocal musical teacher today, Mr. Davis. Sir, it's your floor today. of liberty that our rejoicing breath, high as the listening skies, let it ring out to golden sea. Sing a song full of the faith that the dark past has taught us. Sing a song full of the hope that the present has brought. Facing the rising sun, I've heard you take me. Let us march on, see if victory is won. I to you I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I feel a little blue I'm with a man in the middle Asking him to change his ways Don't mess it up You wanna make the world a better place Take a look at yourself Has it made the change? Shut up, we are moving Shots moving on She was more like a feeling queen I said no matter what you do to me I am fine Realize You can't hurt me I'm fine I know I'm fine Please don't touch me She don't hurt me I feel a change Of course I see You've been there You can't hurt me I can't change Realize You can't hurt me I'm fine I'm fine I can't hurt you I can't hurt you I don't wanna see you face with parents disappearing You're my very best So be, be, just be, be, be You're my best You're my best You're my best You're my best You're my best You're my best You're my best You're my best I don't need to tell you, I don't need to tell you I don't need to tell you I don't need to tell you I don't need to tell you I don't need to tell you I don't need to tell you I don't need to tell you I don't need to tell you Just be a We want to thank Orban Arts and as always our students, our scholars do such a good job. And not just in the chambers when they're here, but they're all over the city. And we are so thankful for them and the work that is being done. Dedicated students who really take out their time to do what they do best. So let's give them one more round of applause. Thank you. Yeah? That's it? Okay, thank you all. Go have a good day. I was looking to see whether there was an executive order that they didn't have to go to school. Great job. Performing Arts is in the Madison District. It's in the Madison District? Mr. President, I just wanted to mention that this brought back great memories. 1983, Riverside High School, the year I graduated. I owned those albums. I'm not going to mention about a glove or a jacket or anything like that. But I wanted to let Mr. Fronchak know that this is Michael Jackson, not Shoeless Joe Jackson. I think he's more familiar with Shoeless Joe Jackson. So, I think we've got to do some business here. Thank you. Wait a minute, where's my sheet? Alright. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on January 23rd are approved. Gentlemen, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to the late files? There are no objections to late files. We will hear the entire agenda. Not taking away your right when items are before us that are late files to objective or ask for more time if you have not had time to see them. All right. We have a hearing today.
 Mr. Chairman, motion to take item... 17 out of CD out of order second by councilmember the lumber on 17 public hearing a banner and sale 503 635 elk and sales portion land beneath Buffalo River motion open a public hearing second by councilmember for your letter public hearing is now open is there anyone here to speak on this item councilmember was my friend Santa thank you I'm just gonna need a little indulgence here to see the item What's the width of this land? Is this a four foot piece? We had to pull it up, yes. Yeah, four foot portion of land beneath Buffalo River. Thank you. Yes. Okay, so this is what we thought. As Mr. Oh, 14, 1485 feet, 5 feet. 4 feet. Yes. As Mr. Scanlon knows and Mr. Pronchuk, the Chairman of Finance is on the Appraisal Review Board, so we took this up last week. That's why I was familiar with this item. It's literally underwater, this piece of land, and it goes alongside the back of the ExxonMobil site that was recently cleaned up. There's a big cleanup over there. is going to be used, this land is going to be used to install a bulkhead next to the existing bulkhead that's there currently that's failing. The failing bulkhead is letting some pollutants leach into the pond, into the Buffalo River. And this will be a four-foot bulkhead extended out and between the old and the new will be a stone backfilled into the situation. So, I don't know, we received this land years and years ago as part of the Buffalo River straightening. It really won't have an effect on anything that we have asked questions about. I ask questions because I'm a broker and I asked about the riparian rights. We don't lose any riparian rights here. People could still paddle through and get through with the same amount of boats. It would literally be four feet. They need the four feet because if they don't get this four feet, the existing bulkhead would have to be removed. All those chemicals to be then dumped in the river when they're removing it could be a problem. So this is the best way to do it for the environment, and it will allow us to have a new bulkhead along the back end of this 1,400-foot width at only four feet wide. And I guess the question would be, because this is the public hearing room where the applicant, I guess, would... speak to it to public. Are we okay moving this without the, is it Paul Norton? Their appraiser showed up at the appraisal review board meeting. They didn't show, but the appraised value is low. It was like $2,500. It was very low because the water, it's underwater. It's not really normally built upon, but they are going to build upon it. So I have no problem with the price. The entire appraisal review board looked at this. There's other professionals on that. board, there's me as a broker, there's two appraisers, former commissioner of assessment is also on there, Mr. Patsel, Joe Sol, and between the four of us we seem to agree that the price was right. This is in Lovejoy? It's in Lovejoy, South, Fillmore, Ellicott, wherever you want to put it. A little bit of everything? It's all over there, yeah. All right. So it's just an interesting piece that we're selling under Waterland. Council Member is okay? Who's district? This is. Motion to close public hearing? Motion to close. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. From the top. Item 1, negative declaration, 19 Doge Street. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Golombi. This is. All right. Thank you. Proceed. Item 2, Landmark Status 82, Allenhurst. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item 3, Reporter Sale 771, Fillmore. Motion to approve Items 3 and 4. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item 5, Reporter Sale 216, Chelsea. Motion to send to CD. Second by President Proton. Item 6, Reporter Sale 169, Johnson. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember White. Item 7, Notification Cereals. Motion to receive and file. second by councilman refund item eight lovejoy pool improvements phase two motion to approve items eight nine and ten Second by the council member who will enjoy it. Council Member Fontana. Item 11, appoint street worker. Motion to send to civil service items 11 through 13. Thank you, Council Member Freelander. Item 14, request approval acceptance of donations canine unit. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 15, appoint police officer. Motion to send civil service items 15 and 16. Second by President Perlman. Item 17. Thank you. EMS medical director contract motion to approve single by customer present item 18 appoint firefighters Motion to send civil service and my customer friends are 19 property manager licensed BBNY Realty motion that's then to legislation items 19 through 20 by council member white item 21 restaurant dance license Riverside Place motion to approve items 21 and 22 and 23. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Item 24, pilot program. Motion to approve items 24 through 28. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item 29, appoint senior special assistant to the commissioner. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Item 30, E.B. Jacobs. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Item 31, mayor reported out of state. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Motion to receive and file items 31 through 34. Seconded by President Brooks. Item 35, notice of appointment, counsel in turn. Motion to adopt. second my councilman france item 36 of appointment seasonal flat motion to receive and file my customer friends item 37 notice of permits temporary provisional permanent motion to send the civil service and my customer with the lumber miscellaneous items item 38 fema providing alter alternative online site for assessing great lakes work maps motion to receive and file items 38 through 20. second my councilman through 42 you want to go to 42 42 I'm sorry? No, up to 42. Second by Councilman Glumbert. Item 43, request to speak relief from deaths to city. Excuse me? 41 to finance. So the motion is to revisit item number 41, second by Councilman Glumbert. Motion to revisit item 41. Is before us. Oh, I'm sorry. And now the motion is to rescind the previous motion. The motion to rescind the previous motion. Motion is now sent to finance. The motion to rescind, seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. The motion to rescind to finance, seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Next item. Item 43, request to speak relief from debts to city. Motion to rescind to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 44, request to memorialize New York State legislation to pass Assembly Bill A8178. Motion to rescind to legislation. I'm sorry. second by council member fairland petitions item 45 23 allen tavern in n2c zone motion is sent to legislation city planning board items 45 through 47. saying my council member right committees civil service item one appoints supervisor of street sanitation one Motion to approve items number one through including number 14. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 15, notice of appointments temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to receive and file. Second by the Majority Leader. Finance Committee, item 16, letter regarding change to payroll schedule. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Community Development, item 18, information plans Frederick Douglass Towers. Community Development. Thank you, Joe. Joe? Joe? Item number 18, Information Plans Frederick Douglas Towers. Motion to receive and file. Mikey Kuzma, Columbia Global Water. Second by Council Member Thierlau. And a cigar. Item 19, approved to enter into contract with LCP Tracker, Inc. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 20, Frederick Douglass Association Phase 1 Tenant Displacement. Motion to receive in File 20 and 21. Second by Council Member Wingo. Legislation Committee Item 22, Food Store License 981 Broadway. Motion to approve Items 22 and 23. Second by council member Golombi. Item 24, food store license 2082 South Park. Motion to recommit. Second by council member Scanlon. Item 25, food store license 454 East Utica. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by council member White, who has the floor. Okay, thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to go back to number 19. Motion is to revisit item 19. Which is a community development. I don't know if my lightning didn't work or something. Okay. yes before us okay i just wanted to go back and refer to this item because i know we had miss rodriguez here and i really am hopeful that we will make sure that we have the resources to make this successful um i've given in another a number of situations where I've given that caveat that are we going to have the people, if we're going to spend this money on this program, are we going to have the people to manage it, to make it effective, to get us the information that we've been desperately looking for for the last couple of years. So I'm really hopeful, and I hope that they hear me clearly, that I'm going to be coming back to this. Because I think we spent money in a proactive way but haven't done anything with it. I can speak to some issues and concerns that people have said to me even about the Beverly Grace Center that is not up and functioning correctly, that it seems as though they still can't get in. A great idea, but if it's just sister with the doors closed, it's just a great idea. So I'm really hopeful that this LP tracker is going to be the help that we need to help minority contractors feel as though they're engaged on making sure that they're competitive with other developers and not just again another Vell and Whistell that we're going to get and it's not going to be used effectively because we don't have the manpower. Ms. Rodriguez can be an exceptional manager, but I'm still concerned of her being able to do this and all the other things that's under her responsibility. I asked her to make sure that we have some type of resources that we have to put forth in the budget, upcoming budget. We need to do it. But I certainly don't want to spend money that we're not going to be able to utilize and maximize the opportunity for small business, especially MWBEs. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 26, Lodging House License 104 Richmond. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 27, Special Use Print 751 Walden. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fialetto. Item 28, Planned Unit Development 229 Elk Street and 83 Lee Street. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 29. adaptive reuse 19 dot to convert warehouse to residential motion to approve second by council member of columbia item 30 site planning rendering 67 north street aka 16 linwood i defer to the district council member for the purposes of emotion thank you mr Franszak, Councilman Franszak. This has been before, this is before the council and what is before the council, and I want to be very clear, is the preservation board's denial of a certificate of appropriateness. The planning board, yeah, preservation board, the planning board, all of the other boards have given their approval. And what I did, and I met with the community, as a matter of fact, I reached out a little earlier to the community, left a voicemail to them. Because what is confusing, and I want to make it very plain, is there were only two items that the Preservation Board were concerned with and did not, and wanted to deny or just to figure out how appropriate. And those two items, I sent back the developer and I sent them back to Preservation to work on two items, not the entire project. two items. A week, almost a week ago, I got a visit from Paul McDonald in my office who walked in with his thumb up and said the board, the committee had met and had met with the developer and the developer, and this is in front of you gentlemen, had changed the two items which I'll submit for the record and which they have, which were basically the windows were one of the main items and the other item as referred to in what i will submit for the record um the base basically in in making that in layman's terms bigger developers went back an architect did exactly what was asked the committee unanimously supported. When it went to the full preservation board, According to what I'm being told by Corporation Council, it would take six votes, although actually there is nothing to vote on, because they had already agreed these two things on the record here at our committee meeting. These two things are changed. We go forward. At the committee, at the full, five voted yes, one voted in a negative, And one recused himself because he said he was planning on suing the city anyway. I have no idea how when you work with the community, you give the community what they've asked and the preservation board. You walk into my office and you say yes, and I understand that Mr. McDonald could not control the vote, don't want him to control the vote. Where I have a problem is, is when somebody is on a city committee and then threatens and has sued this city before because he did not get his way. City then has to spend city resources to then fight a lawsuit from a person on a city board. I don't understand that. When the preservation community came to this council and said we need these two things and we're fine. Today I did speak with Mr. McDonald on the phone in the presence of the developers lawyers, in the presence of the city lawyers, presence of developer to talk about his position now. And I quote, I am all for the project. He could not be here today because he is doing continuing education work at one of the local universities. The majority of the preservation board is for the project. The entire committee is for the project with the changes. And I'm very disappointed that we keep spending city money with people, for people who are on city boards My feeling is, if you're on the city board, you don't get your way, and you don't want to be on the city board, get off the city board. Go sue all you want to, but why are we paying money to go back and forth to court where people are on city boards? I think it's unfortunate. And when I met with some of the representatives here today, folks from Linwood said to me, we are not against... affordable housing. So I want to be very plain before people went out and say they're obstructionists. No, they looked at me and they knew what we had to vote for. And that's what's before us. And so I'll submit this for the record. But I'm asking that this be that the decision be reversed with conditions. And it's spelled out here. The conditions are the conditions that the preservation board asked for. You can't ask and come and speak on the city record, and then we work hard for it, and then one person who says they're not gonna get their way says, I'm gonna file a suit. Well, that's everybody's option. You can sue Mickey Mouse nowadays. But at the end of the day, what's right is right and what's wrong is wrong. So affordable housing, this is not even about whether it's affordable housing. This is about what was before this council were two items, and they went back and they changed it. And so I'm asking for support on that. President Pro Tem. Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't agree with you more as far as the conflict of interest that arises when someone sitting on a city board decides they want to sue the city. And I think your timing is right on point because I think you and I had a conversation recently discussing this. And you're going to see language sent around to everyone in... Also an ordinance amendment presented to the council which would attempt to rectify this situation coming from my office so um, it's very Appropriate and the timing is wonderful as well. So I 100% agree with you 100% of going to support your resolution Council Member White? Council Member Scanlon said it and I'm just I'm glad he's working on it because I'm definitely going to support it. I just can't imagine someone on a city board threatening to sue the city that they're supposed to be supporting and representing and we know that we don't want rubber stamps, but certainly when you're privy to information during that discussion, it seems like it's unfair and it may have been done with the intent in mind to do this, which I think is very disconcerting that someone would use that, but I definitely will support Councilmember Scanlon and his proposal to change that so we don't have to spend city resources on something that really should be someone that really kind of worked in concert with that board to make sure that we fulfill what the folks want in relationship to the city. Absolutely. And I agreed, and the bishop is here, and he really wasn't here for this, but I agreed when the first plans were laid out, and it wasn't these, that it was ugly. And I said, I think I said that in the beginning. It was an ugly building. It looked, somebody referred to it as a toaster. It did. And I said it when they first laid it out. I said, this is one of the ugliest buildings I've ever seen. But they went back, went and met with the community, met with preservation. I'm asking for your support. Did I get a second? Second by Council Member Fontana. And it's Councilman Fontaine. A motion to approve with conditions. A motion to approve with conditions from Councilman, I'll turn it over to Councilman Fontaine. Well, that was your motion. Because you were the chairman. Right. I'm just carrying. Second by Councilman Fontaine. Thank you. Unanimous. Next item. I'm Charlie McCarthy and you're like. And I submitted for the record. Item 31, report a recommendation landmark status 1740 Bailey. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Resolutions. Item 48, bond resolution bike master plan account. Motion to send to finance items 48 through 68. Second by Council Member White. Item 69, Lovejoy Pool fee waiver. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 70, national grid rate increase. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by President Proctor. Item 71, naming Bailey Bridges after Sheriff Thomas F. Higgins. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member What? Mr. President. I'm sorry, Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. For the past seven decades, Tom Higgins has dedicated his life and his passion and efforts to the... This city, this county, and this country. First serving as a United States Marine in the Korean War, then serving as a lieutenant in the Buffalo Police Department, and finally as sheriff of Erie County for 12 years. All in all, he's served or spent 42 years as a member of the law enforcement community. However, his commitment to this community... It is much more than just that. He served, his civic engagement record is incredible. And in the past, he has served as an instructor at Buffalo State Area Community College and Central Police Services Academy. In the past, he's been the president of the Buffalo Naval Military Park, the Buffalo State College Alumni Association, the Judges and Police Conference of Erie County. He served as chairman of Erie County Central Police Services. He's been the past chairman of the Drug Enforcement and Prevention Committee of, and past president of New York Sheriffs Association, as well as serving as a member of the City of Buffalo's Commission on Citizen Rights and the City of Buffalo Charter Revision Committee. and the New York State Law Enforcement Accreditation Council. So his commitment to this city, and to this county, and to this country is absolutely incredible. And over the course of the past two years, the Bailey Bridges have been reconstructed. It's a $22 million project, which is a combination of federal, state, and city dollars. And alongside that, there will also be an Erie County Park as well. And this is an effort, along with the county, to name those bridges and that park after Sheriff Higgins, who I've mentioned his commitment to the area is incredible. So I would appreciate it if everyone could get on board and support this renaming of those bridges and that park in honor of Sheriff Higgins. Thank you, sir. Councilman Fontana? Thank you. And I also, too, would appreciate everyone's support on this because Normally when someone asks me to rename something, it has to make common sense. And I've only renamed a few things in my day here at the council. One, this gentleman above my shoulder, Mr. George Arthur, we named the George Arthur Center after George because when he was here on the council, he spearheaded the efforts to create a center. and when i got an office on nineteen in nineteen ninety eight the doors were closed the windows are off everything is brought up as a was his building agency street they said it's a great new community center the george did never opened up to the left office so the first thing we did was open it up of course the next thing that was named after george so uh... we do get requests to name things quite often many times those requests are tempered with the question what does the person you're trying to name it after have to do with the subject and at hand When they say nothing, that's a problem. So with this, I use the same test, essentially. What do the bridges have to do? What does the area have to do? Well, in this case, a lot. Sheriff Higgins oversaw the road patrol of Erie County for, I think, 16 years, if I'm not mistaken. I'll get my facts right for the hearing. But Sheriff Higgins was Sheriff Braun's under-sheriff. Sheriff Braun beat Mike Amico in the 70s. So we were around quite a bit during that period of time, especially my father. And he had nothing but high praise for Sheriff Higgins as the sheriff. And the sheriff even came to our house one time to help my mom with something that she was dealing with with some identification. Thank you. So not only does he handle western New York, he handled, just Buffalo, he handled the whole western New York region. So with that, I think of no finer person to name these two bridges. And then also, I'm happy that we're naming the park after Sheriff Higgins, too, because all too often people don't respect parks. And I think a name with Sheriff Tom Higgins on that park, the park will be respected. I was with him, he was at the ship dock. last month. Incredible memory, and I think it's good to do it while people are alive who have contributed so that they are able to see the honor and receive the honor. Even at his age, he was still downtown for the Memorial Mass for our fallen officer this year. He attended that at his age, walking, driving himself, doing everything he needs to do. It is nice to do something when someone's alive. Yes, good resolution. Did we finish that? Yep. All right. Council Member White? Is it already seconded? Oh, all right. It's been moved, seconded, done. I just had a question for Laf. We had to have a public hearing. We have to have a full-blown public hearing? Correct. Does this require a full-blown public hearing? The renaming of the bridges? The bridges, the street, the park. That's what I'm talking about. So do we send this back to a committee? No. The motion was to approve. Adopted. All right. So it'll start the process with the adoption. All right. All right. Good. Item 72. So I thought, yeah, so we need to adopt this and send the remainder to the committee so that it can have a public hearing. Because if all we do is adopt it, it goes away. So, yeah. The motion then, let's rescind it and just do it all the right way. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Motion is now to adopt the remainder to legislation. Would you like to send it to me? Where do you want to go? Community Development? No, you adopt the where's, right? Adopt the resolves, the remainder to legislation. To the Legislation Committee. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Now it's done right. Thank you. Item 72, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 264, Rental Dwelling Unit Registration. Motion is to approve. Second by Council. Mr. Chairman, just a clarification on this. This was discussed in caucus yesterday, and we were informed that they would provide us with some information regarding the rental registry and how the money is going to be earmarked. And we know it's an increase of... uh to thirty dollars from twenty dollars no from twenty dollars to fifty dollars and from ten dollars to twenty five dollars So that's a, that's an increase, pretty large increase, more than double that will raise well over a million dollars in revenue for the City of Buffalo. However, we want our constituents, the voters and the residents to know that this is how the money is going to be spent. I'm not opposed to it, but certainly I want to make sure that they know exactly what they're paying for. I don't know if they provided us with that information that we requested yesterday. council staff did we receive that information welcome to the council chief of staff know that our office has not received anything yet so we can do one of two things i mean we can approve it moving on we can send it back to committee we can give them like 30 seconds to get down here with the information um but i i don't feel comfortable because council members asked in the caucus for that to occur and it should be before us it Council Member White. Mr. Chair, I'm going to be clear on this, and I'm not going to do it for anyone. When we ask for information, they've got to give it to us. I'm not a bobblehead, and I agree with everything that they presented to us, but I want financial information. Give it to us. You have it. Don't just tell me it's needed. Show me. Give me the information. I'm willing to support it, but I need the information. And I'm not going to approve something. I'm not for any department. If they don't bring us information, I'm not a bobblehead, I'm not going to be, because I think it does us a disservice. We should know and have all the facts, figures to be able to speak, educate, educate wisely, to educate the residents on why we're doing what we're doing. I'm not going to continue to go down that path. where we just approve something because it's a good thing to do. I asked yesterday about the $500,000, and you bring it out to me, but those are things that people have said to me. What are you doing with this money? I don't know. Show me the information so I can speak intelligently about it. I think it's only fair for us as lawmakers when we have to support the administration in areas in which it's going to improve the city. Lead is a big issue. We all are in agreement with that. But show me how we're going to spend the money, show me what we have so that we can be confident that what we're doing is the right thing to do. Because I will go to the wall, because we all know that people are concerned. It's a national concern. We're interested in making sure that we address it, and we are addressing it. We can't address it, but I just need the information to support it. Absolutely. So I'm being informed that they are on the way. Hopefully, they'll have the information, because I'm not sure how far this is going to go without that information. Yep. Motion to hold it in abeyance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 73, Budget and Personnel Amendment, Construction of Streets. Motion to approve items 73 and 74. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item 75, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 75 and 76. Second by Councilmember Wingo. We can go ahead and do the announcements and we're still in session. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, February 13th, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, February 13th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, February 13th, 2 p.m. Special Committee, Committee on Education, Tuesday, February 13th, 12 p.m. Councilman Fontana, you have the floor. You're like a good quarterback. You can see the field, see who's raising their hand. If we could go back to the legislation committee, I had an item there with, let me go back to the paper here, hold on. Special use over there, 27, number 27 at 751 Walden. We mentioned this to the committee. I just want to make sure that gets on the record for Karen today, that we were approving this with the condition, so the condition would be that their existing signage be brought into compliance with city code. They have a huge sign on the side of the building that the residents of Academy Road want gone, and they have a right to have that gone because the sign is illegal. So the front signage and the side signage of the building be removed and replaced with appropriate signs that fit the green code. With that, we'll grant them the permission. All right. So those conditions weren't read in, so I want to go back and do it the right way. Thank you, sir. So let's revisit. Motion to revisit what item is it? Item 27. Item 27 out of legislation, seconded by Councilmember Golomba. Now the motion is to this is to amend the motion and to add the conditions as just stated by Councilmember Fontana.
 Yeah. Appropriate signage for the green code. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. And before we come to the mic, because I think I need to make it plain that although the item that we just discussed with the Ascension, it is not a done deal yet. It still now must go back to SHPO. and go back to the Parks Department, the Federal Parks Department for approval there. All right, we're back at the item. Let's move to item 72. Item 72. Ordinance Amendment Chapter 264, Rental Dwelling Unit Registration. All right. Thank you for being with us, sir. I'm sorry. I was in a meeting downstairs. No, I mean, you got here quick for being in a meeting. You just state your name for the record. Jim Comerford, Commissioner of Permits and Inspectorate Services. Ms. Comerford, the question came up for the information that was asked to be provided for the council, and we don't know if they missed the email. Yeah, me and Llewyn and I are putting it together. I'll get it to you. I mean, I could verbally explain it. I mean, we had over $30,000 in overtime last year with pregnancy. be more aggressive and spend probably close to 50 this year. We're using two inspectors for this job. There's some, we're going to do more printouts for lead. We've got to send two mail, separate mailings out. And we're going to do some other things, which, to be honest with you, I'm not at liberty to say right now. It's not my place to make announcements, but we are going to do a couple other things. I think the hesitation is because some of the council members want to see a layout in writing of what we talked about, the revenue and the expenditures. Okay. So can you make it in the next – about, you know, get it to us, and that before, because I have a feeling this is going back. Yeah, if it goes back, it goes back. I'll just have to lay it out. We're just putting things down, and I just didn't have time. I've been busy since yesterday, so. So I would just say it should go back because of the council members who have unreadiness so that we have it in writing. Sure. Thank you, sir. Okay. So motion to recommit? Read motion. We have to get the phone. I can't hear you. So, what's up with the number? Right, it's nothing to recommit because it's brand new. So the motion would be we send it over to a committee and because this is a layman's so we'll send it over to legislation and then we can get that information by next week. Commissioner can you let us know when do you expect us to get that? When do you think that you can get that to us? Well, I can get it to you by the end of the week. Okay. Yeah. I mean, because I really, I want to support this because I think it's a great idea. I think we're being proactive, but I just want to get that information. As long as we get that, I'm definitely going to support it. Yeah, I understand. We're putting it together. I didn't have it ready for this meeting. I want to make sure it's definitive. I don't want to just do generalities, and I just didn't have time to put it together. So do you know if the announcement, the other announcement will not be in there, or that's still going to be something that's going to be delayed? There'll be something later. Okay. Okay. Okay, okay. Thank you. We have announcements. Council Member, thank you. Any other announcements from your districts before we... Council Member Wingo? Saturday, 8.30, Madison District Stakeholders Meeting, as well as our breakfast, 8.30, 8.77, East Delavan. All right. Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Wyatt. He's going to yield to me. No, I'm the chair, so... Council Member Wyatt. No, he could yield. I just want to invite the residents of the University District and Lovejoy District for our second annual food store license renewal. It's going to take place Thursday, March 1st. from 530 to 7 and Monday, March 5th from 530 to 7. This is an opportunity for residents who are around the deli stores to come out if they have concerns or even to applaud deli stores. I don't think it's, I mean we've done a tremendous job over the last couple of years in improving the relationship of the deli stores with the residents. Matter of fact, we just reviewed a list regarding some of the 911 calls and found that the 911 calls have downed dramatically because we're working together. This thing works and I thank my colleague, Councilmember Fontana, for lending his support. I think that when the residents come in and they understand that we are united because we have the police department, we have inspections there, and we also have law there, You can't wiggle out of this. If there's been a problem, we all know about it and we're going to address it. But most importantly, I do like when residents come and they have positive things. Because these deli stores aren't our enemies. They provide a needed resource in our community. And many of them do a fantastic job. So again, March the 1st, Thursday, March 1st, and Monday, March 5th at 995 Kensington from 537. We hope that residents are making sure that they put that on their list because if they have concerns, we want them to come out. This is their opportunity. Thank you, Mr.
 Chair. Thank you, sir. And you're the Councilmember of Fontana. Thank you, sir. You almost got yielded, too. Thank you. Yeah. Since I don't make breakfast, we're serving spaghetti dinner tomorrow night at 7 p.m. I'm not Greek. I don't cook food. 7 7 on the 7th tomorrow from 530 to 7 at the Schiller Park Senior Citizen Center if there's anybody interested in attending a charter school for their kids they should come on down for a free spaghetti dinner hosted by myself and new charter school coming into the either the university area or the Lovejoy area. They're going to either pick one of the two schools. And we've been really working aggressively with them. Hopefully they can take the school Poplar 11 site. We lost Poplar 11 to some Phase 1 issues of the school reconstruction. They couldn't add on to it in Phase 1. So they ended up slating it for closure down the road, whereas for subsequent phases you could add on. So unfortunately on Poplar Street we have a closed school that's really not the greatest thing for the neighborhood. So if we could get a charter school there, that would be fantastic, right across the street from Schiller Park. And it would really finish up my desire to get that school finally used for something long term. So anybody looking for a new charter school? You know, it's an alternative for pre-K and I think it's first grade, kindergarten and first grade, I think it is. We're going to be helping them in their quest to open up potentially in this Poplar Academy site. Poplar Academy was taken very well care of by the Buffalo School Board. They turned it back over to the city of Buffalo. We've owned it now for years. We're maintaining it. It would be nice to sell that property and put it on a useful path. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Nobody else? Yes, sir. Said goodbye, Councilmember Field, let him. He said, let's go.