And we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Here. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. I am here. And Council Member White. Present.
 His audio is connecting, but he is present and will be on. All right, let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag, of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands,
 I, uh, it's intriguing that today is Groundhog Day and for some of us it feels, uh, in leadership, uh, like the movie Groundhog Day in terms of every day we wake up, uh, things being a bit disorienting. Uh, this morning I was fortunate, a friend called and, uh, gave me a scripture that was helpful for me. I hope it will be for you all as well. Psalm chapter 46. Okay.
 God is our refuge and strength, always ready to help in times of trouble. So we will not fear when earthquakes come, mountains crumble into the sea. Let the oceans roar and foam, the mountains tremble as the waters surge. A river brings joy to the city of our God, the sacred home of the Most High. God dwells in that city. It cannot be destroyed. From the very break of day, God will protect it.
 Let's pray together. Father, I thank you for the power of this psalm. Thank you, Lord, that it declares that you are our refuge and strength with all that are coming against us in this time of extended trouble.
 and all the pressure that it puts on leadership at every level in our city and county and state and nation and around the world. Father, the weight is heavy on the shoulders of those who lead. Today I pray that you would show yourself strong to all of us, all that are hurting, all that are grieving, all that are feeling lost, all that wonder what's coming next.
 I pray thanking you that there's joy that is going to come again to our city and that you are the one that is protecting us.
 I pray, Father, even now looking to you, oh wise God, for wisdom and direction for the council today. Help them to hear clearly your voice. And Lord, thank you that you have good intentions for the city of Buffalo and our future. We submit it once again to you and your faithfulness. And we thank you in your precious son Jesus' name. Amen.
 Thank you, Dr. Warren, and thank you for that scripture and prayer. Councilmembers, memorials, Councilmember Golombak. Thank you, Mr. President. I think many of you knew that my mom had been somewhat sick the past few months. On last Tuesday, she started her recovery.
 immunotherapy at Roswell Park. On Thursday morning, we rushed her to the hospital, and she died on Thursday evening at about 9.30 p.m. It was sort of a shock for us. We were told that she had, you know, three to six months, depending on how the immunotherapy was going to work,
 um and you know i'm still in a little bit of shock right now uh over it but uh she was uh mom and dad were both active in the community um i got my i think my love of the neighborhood through both of them um
 my mom was more active than my dad. I remember as a kid, she was a volunteer Cub Scout mother and home, you know, the homeschool or whatever they were called at that time. She volunteered at little league baseball. I remember she was the Catholic youth organization coordinator when I was in high school. I remember she would do things for the kids in the neighborhood. When I was growing up, we would have movie night and she would,
 buy ice cream and stuff for the kids. Uh, and I remember her and my dad both had said that, uh, you know, they were fortunate because in the 1970s, uh, uh, some of us remember this only too well Bethlehem steel and a lot of the other companies were closing. And, um,
 you know, people were losing their jobs. And I had friends whose fathers were making 30, $40,000 a year, which at that time was considered very good money that suddenly became a house painters and were making maybe a third of what they had been making. And I didn't realize it at the time, but mom and dad were inviting friends over. We'd have a little bit more, you know, hot dog outings in the backyard, hamburgers, and, you know, the kids were invited over and, uh,
 So, you know, that's, you know, I have nothing but respect for my mom and my dad. And I was very fortunate. Maybe I'm the only person in the world who can say that COVID was a blessing in a strange sort of a way, because I lived upstairs with my mom in a double in Riverside. And since March of last year, I was her primary caregiver. And I got to spend an awful lot of time with her, taking her to doctor's appointments,
 shopping whenever we could get out we would but just sitting downstairs she loved Steve Harvey she wanted me to sit there and watch Steve Harvey on family feud with her on a regular basis but I got to spend a lot of time with her and she's going to be very very sorely missed by me uh the family and by many many people in the Black Rock and Riverside neighborhood she was also a longtime Democratic committee member I think she was first elected in 1984 or something like that so
 very active in the neighborhood. So, and thank you for those people that sent condolences. I appreciated it very much and I'm sure that she does as well. Council Member Golombic, this is the first that I'm hearing about it for you to be in this meeting today.
 with such news and still to be serving this community, serving this city is a really a testimony about your mom. We've had this discussion about your mom over the year and for her to pass and you to continue going through the work is just commendable. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. You just took the words right out of my mouth.
 You know, I had the privilege of meeting Mrs. Glombeck once or twice, and what an incredibly sweet woman.
 And I've had the privilege of serving with Joe now for eight and a half years. And he's an incredibly, he's a great guy and a great council member. And that is no doubt, as you said, a testament to the values of his mother and his father. But as we remember his mother today, I just want to send all my well wishes to him and his sisters and their extended family. And I know that they are going to be sorely missed by their family and the surrounding community.
 Councilmember Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate it. Again, I have to echo the sentiments of both you and Councilmember Scanlon because I know how much Joe loved his mother. We talked about it. We even traded Baptist and Catholic prayers with each other over the last several weeks.
 and I really appreciate how he's come back and shown us his strength and the work ethic that he has. Joe, man, listen, we love you, and I am so, so grateful to God that we've been able to cultivate a great working relationship, but above that, a respected friendship, and we're here for you. We're praying for you, and I think that I'm
 I would be remiss if I didn't say, I'm actually shocked that we've come so close, but I'm grateful to God that we have become as close as we have as far as how we are able to go back and forth with our conversations. But with that said, Mr. Chair, Council President Pridgen, I really appreciate
 all of our council members. But this right here just goes to show the character of Joe, what his mother and his father have taught him through all these years on how to be dedicated and committed to your community. And with that said, Joe, our hats off to you. You have my condolences. We love you, man. And if there's anything you need, let us know. All right, appreciate you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Dr. Warner.
 As you said, Council President, this was the first I'd heard also from Mr. Golombek. And so I just want to let you know, we've been praying for mom and the extended issues that she's had. But your prayer, our prayers are with you. And the whole council resonates with that as well. And as was well said, anything that we can do to help or any service that's going to happen, please let us know. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Council President.
 My condolences to you, Councilmember Golombek. And I might be out of order, Council President, but I will hope that we could dedicate these proceedings on behalf of Mrs. Golombek. Joe has been in service, I don't know how many years, but it does speak volumes of his family values. And, you know, I just honor and have much respect that he's here on this day with the loss of his mom. So my prayers are with you, Councilmember Golombek. I will second that motion.
 Councilmember Frioletto. Thank you very much. Just want to echo the sentiments that all my colleagues have already said and I had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Golombek once at a pierogi fundraiser about 10 years ago and she was just wonderful. I was I had the opportunity to talk to her for a few minutes and she was just an absolute wonderful woman and I'm sure that she will be missed and she's in our prayers. Councilmember Noah Kowski, I believe.
 And just to join with my colleagues, my condolences to the North District Councilmember. It truly is a testament that he is here. But I know the good Polish doc he comes from. So I know that he has to report to work no matter what. And it's also his birthday today. So good Polish fashion still a lot, Councilmember Golombak. Wow. You added on the birthday too. Unbelievable. Councilmember Rivera, then Councilmember Bowman, I believe. Councilmember Rivera, you're muted. Okay.
 i would like to express my deepest condolences to councilmember Golumbik as i listen to him speak all i can think about is him honoring his mother from the very beginning to her last days and i think that's very important we all honor our mothers and fathers and for that i i thank councilmember Golumbik
 Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Gallenbeck, I just want to offer my condolences and much respect for you being here on this meeting and we all appreciate the services you bring to your district in the city of Buffalo. Thank you. Thank you. Have I recognized anyone? Any other memoirs? All right. I want to remember
 Beatrice Williams, who actually is a was a Mastin district resident. She has had the store and apartments on Ferry. And I remember as a little boy being so amazed. It was a time when many people from the neighborhood on their own stores and lived in the neighborhoods, especially African Americans.
 She has gone on. She is the aunt of one of our workers in the Ellicott office. Also, Anthony Hunter, also known as Ronnie, a house where I was babysat.
 most of my childhood on Winslow Avenue. His mother used to babysit me and they took me and I would actually be in their family photos. And he has passed on. And then a member of the St. Luke Church, Viola Lewis, who is contributor to many in our community, a very active mother, but very active in her community and in her church.
 And she, in the words of Joe Golombek, will be sorely missed. And as always, anyone, men, women who have given their life for the freedom of our country or others, we remember. And with the suggestion of our colleagues, we dedicate this meeting to the memory of Mrs. Golombek. We pause for a moment of silence.
 Thank you all. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on January 19, 2021 are approved. Council members, you have the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? If not, taking away your right to pause the meeting for you to review them if you have not had the opportunity. Are we going from the top majority meeting? Yes, we are. Item number one.
 Item number one, historic district application 84, 88, 90, 94, 96, 100, 102, Florida streets. Motion to send to legislation, 9CD. Motion to send to legislation, Seth? Yes. All right. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number two, local landmark 1762 and 1766 Main Street. Motion to send to legislation item two and three. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 Item number four, DDA 51, 57, 61, 65, 69, 71, 75, 77, 79, and 81, Swinburne Street. Motion to approve item four and five. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes.
 council member scanlon yes council member winkel yes council member white yes item number six report of sale eight norway park motion to send the cd second by council member noah kowski item number seven report of sale 273 and 275 peterski motion to approve items seven and eight second by council member noakowski council member bowman
 Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number nine, cash flow report December 2020. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Golombek.
 Item number 10, Interfund Loan Abbott Road Streetscape. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Mr. Chair. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I just want to thank everyone who's been involved with this issue. This item is an Interfund Loan, which will close the gap while we wait for money to come through the pipeline to get phase one of the Abbott Road reconstruction project underway this year.
 This has been a project that has been many years in the making and again I can't thank everyone enough that's been involved. Whether it's the number of residents who've attended public meetings, taken part in surveys, things of that nature, or the Department of Public Works who's been incredible working with us, the engineering teams have been hired and taking part in it.
 incredible process and it's going to lead to an outstanding project on Abbott Road where we are going to completely reconstruct the street in three and several phases, but this is for phase one which will get underway. This summer, and again to the residents of South Buffalo who have been waiting for this project for a few years now. We're finally here. We've had some delays, COVID obviously created some delays, but we're here, we'll have shovels in the ground soon enough and I can't look, I can't tell you how much I'm looking forward to seeing this project completed.
 Excellent. Council Member Bolme? Yes. Bolme, sir. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombic? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 11, Certificate of Appointment Systems Analyst. Motion to send the civil service items 11 and 12.
 Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 13, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 14, change order East Sullivan ADA. Motion to approve items 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Councilmember Buhlmann. Yes.
 Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombic. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyeth. Yes. Item number 24 appoint Superintendent of Communications Operations. Motion to send the civil service items 24 and 25. And by Council Member Golombic.
 Item number 26, Contract Extension City of Buffalo and MS Analytical. Motion to approve items 26 and 27. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Golombic. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prudgen. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon.
 Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 28, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 28 and 29. Second by Councilmember Lombard. Item number 30, Bickford concerns property deterioration at 182 Bickford Avenue. Motion to send the CD items 30 and 31. Second by Councilmember Lombard.
 Item number 32, National Flood Insurance Program Flood Insurance Rate Maps for Erie County. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item number 33, Senator Kennedy Common Council Vaccine Equity Response. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item number 34, School Speed Zone Camera Pause Editorial. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Council Member Golombek. On this item, I did talk to Kevin Helfer to make sure so that the public would understand that all of the cameras, although they will be operating,
 although they build the school speed zones are still in effect, which this council has supported the zones, but there will be whether it's called a grace period. We call it, some people call it a pause. This council did ask for there to be a pause. There will be a pause for the entire month of February. I want to thank the administration for doing this. I think it is so important to get this right because,
 And they will be able then to see, I believe people still, there's a grace period, I'm not sure if they'll get a warning ticket. I think that it's good that the administration is looking at this, is also trying to make sure that when people are being ticketed in March, that all of the bumps in the roads have been smoothed out.
 This council has been a supporter of school safety zones. I'm still a supporter of school safety zones. Just wanted to see the program roll out right. So I want to thank the administration for the month of the pause, but I want the public to know
 that there is still a speed zone and people shouldn't be flying through those areas. They shouldn't be doing 60 miles an hour anywhere in the city of Buffalo, but especially around those schools. The schools are open. I was able to, I was asked to join Dr. Cash yesterday in welcoming back those children whose parents
 have elected to send their children back. So we just want to make sure our children are safe. So again, thank you for that pause. Council Member Scammer? Yeah, thank you. Just to follow up on one point you did make, I just want everyone to be aware that you made it very clear, people, please just don't be speeding through these zones just because the cameras are on. But also in addition to that, these schools are operating and an officer, a police officer
 can get you. So please make sure you're abiding by the school speed limits despite the fact that there are no operational cameras.
 Absolutely. It's not a free fall right now. Our children are there and many of them for the first time. Kindergarten is in, it's our youngest and then our seniors. Thank you. Next item. Council President, Council Member Rasheed White. Yes, sir. Council Member Beard. Council Member. I'm sorry. I didn't see you, Council Member. No problem. Council Member White. No problem, Mr. Chair. I hope that this time is used to
 strengthen this program as well. We can talk about the residents and ask them not to speed and all that good stuff, but we still are waiting for the proper signage. People are still driving through on Bailey Avenue thinking that it's being enforced from seven to six, which is not true. It's misleading, but hopefully they'll use this time, this break time, as they could have done the other times as well to improve the program, to make it transparent where residents know exactly what they're dealing with
 and not a surprise. So thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Right, next item. Item number 35, P. Rizzo requests to speak at legislation committee. Motion is to end the legislation items 35 and 36. Second by Council Member DeLombe. Item number 37, UHC letter to planning board regarding 400 Kenmore. Motion to send to CD. CD and DPW. Second by Council Member DeLombe.
 Item number 38, special use permit 572 South Division for tobacco sales. Motion to send the legislation to city planning board items 38 through 40. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Submissions list, civil service. Item number one appoint cell block attendant. Motion is to receive and file items 1, 2 and including 3. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Council President.
 Council. Yes, sir. Councilman. I had a question and maybe it's for Corporation Council. If these are just to receive and file, there's nothing time sensitive about them, are there? Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon, usually when we do receive and file, if the document is really informational, and so there's no action approval or so that city needs to take on it in order to get something done.
 Just wanted to prove that just that point to be clear because if we could, could we have one of those three sent to police oversight, just so we have that issue in police oversight so I can raise some questions I have with administration of the police department. Sure, which one? Any one of the three is fine with me. Okay. You want to send item one? Sure. Okay.
 So we had to revisit item number one. If that's all right with the chair, civil service. That's fine. All right. Let's revisit item number one and rescind the motion. It's moved by the chair to rescind the motion to receive and file. And it's now being moved by council, by the president pro temp to send to police oversight by council member Galambe. Thank you. Council president. Thank you. Chairman Wingo.
 No problem. Next item. Finance, CDPB funding agreement, third continuation. Mr. President, I don't quite agree with this one. So I just want to know the point of order. Do I still approve even though I'm waiting for the vote? Is that what I should do for this item?
 Yes, the committee has sent it out. The committee sent it out for approval and then you can vote in the negative on that item. I'm not comfortable with the operation from the Beverly Gray Center. It's just, to me, similar to the schools on cameras is really a mess.
 They haven't had an executive director since last year. There's a lot of issues here. And the fact that we have the mayor and one of his employees involved in this is really disconcerting. I'm not saying anything illegal is being done. I've been told that this is all legal. If it is, then fine, but I'm not comfortable with it. So I will motion to approve with reservations and we can go for the roll. Thank you.
 Council President, you're on mute right now. Thank you. The motion is to approve second by Council Member Lumbick and I'm recording Council Member White in the negative. Is that correct, Council Member? Yes, sir. Recording Council Member White in the negative. All right, Council Member Woolman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? We didn't. Did you get a Council Member Ferraletto? No.
 He says yes. Okay. Council member Golombek? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Buengal? Absolutely. Council member Wyatt? No. Item number five in community development, report of sale 1475 Amherst. At the request of the district council member, the motion is going to be to deny.
 Second by Council Member Fialetto. Council Member, did you have any comment on the denial? Yes, this item was brought in front of us because the house was listed at the foreclosure, I believe it was last foreclosure auction. It sold for $177,000 and the purchaser,
 It's my understanding the purchaser was not able to come up with the funds. So it reverted back to the city of Buffalo. And at some point, the city of Buffalo listed it on the real estate website, and someone expressed an interest in purchasing it for $87,000 from the city upon further investigation.
 The house was owned by a woman named Mabel Tips who purchased the house in 1975. She passed away in 2011 and it appears someone was paying the taxes on the property for several years until it went into foreclosure for not paying six, I think it was six or $700 in user fee.
 So it went to auction. I researched the family of Miss Tips. I was going all over through different obituaries. I even contacted Council President Pridgen because I saw there was a funeral at one of his churches. We were able to get a hold of one of the daughters who was unaware that the house was sold.
 or even foreclosed on ever. And I think it's important because the family, the estate is entitled to the surplus of the foreclosure funds. So I think it's very important that this specific house gets listed
 by the city, probably on the MLS or in a different way. And I talked to the real estate department. They're good with it. I think this property can sell for significantly more money than the $87,000 that was agreed on. This is a very hot neighborhood. It's three or four doors down from the zoo in the Parkside neighborhood.
 a block away from Delaware Park. And I think we certainly owe it to the estate of Ms. Tips that her kids, grandkids, however her estate is set up gets absolutely as much money as possible. And that's why we're denying this sale and real estate is going to list it on the MLS. Thank you.
 Thank you, Councilmember, and thank you for the work that you did on behalf of this family. It was tremendous. I did bury, I believe, her granddaughter.
 from the horrible homicide. And when you called and did all of that digging, and I contacted that family, they were blown away that a council member would try to track them down. It's a shame that the house was lost for, I think you say user fee or something, or some very small amount of
 And we see this over and over. There's a house next door to me that is owned by, and you can sue if you want, a slumlord. And I just made Karen's hair stand on end. But it is owned by a slumlord who got it from auction, who there was an elderly lady in the residence who she was sick for years and didn't pay the taxes and lost that house. And somebody in New York bought it who hasn't done a thing with it.
 So you doing that work, that family was very thankful. So thank you. I think we have to look into this process, especially when we're talking about, and I think it was President Pro Temp in the past that sponsored legislation, was that you, that kind of protected some of these situations. It was even worse than what it is now, but I think we have to look at that, someone losing
 what can be legacy building for a very small amount. So thank you for that. Someone else had their hand up? All right, thank you. Oh, Council Member White. Thank you, thank you Mr. President. I wanna commend my colleague for his efforts on that. I think when this legislation came up to us to talk about this whole process, we had a lot of concerns and this is a point
 Well taken that you know someone can lose out for a small amount for their legacy, and I know that is probably a little bit more prevalent in the black community, because we don't have a lot of assets like this so it's very important. And it just seems as though we have taken a lazy lazy for effort.
 to assist people in these situations and not really put our due diligence in to see what we can do to find these families if we can. It seems as though because we're hurting for money, we'll just go through the process.
 But I thank you for what you've done. Matter of fact, I'm on the appraisal review board for this particular house. And there was a lot of debate with the individual who was purchasing it. And the appraisers were saying it was one in a mountain or not. So I know it was a very, very hot neighborhood. And hopefully this family will be able to sell it and get something to leave a legacy for their family. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Next item.
 Item number six, report of sale 102 and 104 Dodge. This is without recommendation, council president. Did you have a recommendation at this point? Yes, sir. I've talked to real estate and my concern was
 especially the fact that we don't really sell in Ellicott double lots and especially in an area that is experiencing gentrification without there being a project. There is this, so I am okay with approving this with the conditions that our
 are in the contract that I want to read two of them into the record. 11C of the deed of provision under which purchaser agrees to complete the repair and rehabilitation of the property. And in this instance, it would be completing the building of the house within 12 months from the date of closing. Okay.
 Section D, 11D, a provision stating that in the event the purchaser does not satisfy all post-closing obligations within 12 months of closing, then all rights, title, claim and interest in and to the property of such or such improvements shall automatically revert to the seller, which is the City of Buffalo. And again, this is because we don't want, I don't wanna start seeing a prospect buying
 in these areas where people are simply buying up the land and then not doing anything with it if they purchase it from the city of Buffalo. So I wanna thank Real Estate, Hope Young Watkins and Brendan Mahaffey for making sure that these properties are either being moved and something happening or it comes back to the city. Read that into the record. So that's for approval. Motion is to approve with those conditions
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number seven, Crockett, BOPC golf fees 2021. We're going to have to have a roll call. Do we have other approvers behind that one? Yeah, my apologies. I'll make the motion that we approve six with your conditions and then I believe it was seven and eight.
 Yes, given the end date. That's correct. All right. Second remains. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Council Member Golombi? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member White? Yes. Item number 9, University District Main Street.
 Motion is to receive and file items 9 through and including 16. Seconded by the Majority Leader, Revere. Legislation, item number 17, food store license 904 Broadway. Legislation, Chair, are you with us? If you are, you're on mute. I was on mute. The motion is to approve 17 with conditions and approve 18. Seconded by Council Member DeLombe.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Boyan? Yes. Item number 19, Zoning Map Amendment 9 and 11, City Ship Canal. Motion is to recommit. Second by Councilmember Golombic.
 Item number 20, ATV and unregistered recreational use vehicles. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 21, special use permit 976 Kensington. Motion is to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Councilmember Wingo, you have the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. This item, we are going to approve it with conditions of which, of course, we will submit to the council as well as just put on the public record that there will be no wooden signs and they cannot sell shirts outside either. Ready? With those conditions? That's Member Baldwin.
 Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombic? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyand? Yes. Police Oversight, item number 22.
 Dominique Calhoun, questions for Common Council. Motion to receive and file items 22, 23, and 24. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Resolutions. Item number 41, Nowakowski repeals section 240.37 of New York State Penal Law. Motion to receive and file items 41, 42, and 43. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Councilmember Nowakowski, you have the floor. Thank you.
 Yes, I just want to take a moment to just explain this resolution that is submitted. The New York State Legislature is set to repeal this law presumably today or early hours of tomorrow. This law is also known as the Walking Wall Trans Ban. It's a lawyering law that's very archaic and has been used to harm transgender people and people of color in their communities simply for the way that they dress and for who they are. And it's time that this law is...
 is wiped off the books and that we stand together with our trans community in the city of Buffalo. I know that this vote is just ceremonial, but I think that it's important that we stand together. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Wyatt. I'm sorry, Council Member Wyatt. Can I be added, Mr. Chair? Please add Council Member Wyatt. Next item.
 Item number 44 has been withdrawn. Item number 45, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 45 and 46. Taking back Council Member DeLong-Bett. Item number 47, Trailblazing Resolution for George K. Arthur. Motion to approve. Taking back Council Member DeLong-Bett.
 Councilmember White, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think this is so appropriate that I'm able to approve this item during the month of Black History. We know Mr. Arthur was a trailblazer in so many ways in the City of Buffalo.
 I want to thank the Roebling Avenue Black Club for their leadership on this. Mr. Arthur and his family has lived there for many years, and this was something that was very much dear on their heart, which I definitely support. I know there's going to be a lot of other things in which we're going to recognize this iconic man, but I just want to say this is a tremendous blessing on this day, one of the first days of Black History Month, to recognize former Council President George K. Arthur. Thank you.
 I agree. And can you, I would like to be added, if you'd allow. Absolutely. Council Member Revere would like to be added. Noah Kowski would like to be added. Golombet would like to be added. Did I miss anybody? Yes, sir. My hand is raised. Thank you. Wingo would like to be added. Scan would like to be added. Councilman Fairletter would like to be added.
 Thank you. Council member for a letter or anybody else wants to. All right. And I agree with you, Councilmember White, as you know, I think right now is Councilmember Nowakowski who has his furniture. I had his furniture when I first came. And when he came to visit my office, he was like, this is my furniture. And as the freshman back in that day.
 And our freshman lawmakers don't know much about this. But when you were freshmen, they would clear your office out and you got whatever was in the basement.
 And what was in the basement was George K. Arthur's leather couch, old leather couch, obviously old leather chair and desk. And I think now we want to preserve that really in some place. And hopefully, Councilmember Wyatt, there will be some new street that's been developed in the city of Buffalo in which we could make somebody's address.
 George K Arthur way or something so but I think that this is so good on the street on Roebling and for the people to lead it you to carry it and bring it here to us. Thank you very much for that. Next item. It's gonna roll call. Yes. Councilmember Bowman. Yeah. That's a member for a letter. Yes. Councilmember Glamour. Yes.
 Council Member Nowakowski? Yes, I'd like to say one quick thing. I wouldn't do my predecessor zero justice if I didn't opine and give a little bit of levity on George K. Arthur. Early in my tenure as council member, I got a – my staff got a tour of the house that he – the Nash house that he loves to give. And I walked up the stairs, and I said, one day I want to be just like George K. Arthur. And he said, old and fat. I said, old and honorable. He said, I'll take that, council member. Okay.
 With that, I give my approval. Thank you, Council Member Nowakowski. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number 48, bond resolution, Broderick Park Public Art. Motion to send the finance items 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 67, 58, 59, all the way to 73. Second by happy birthday, Councilmember Joseph Golombek Jr. That's our agenda. Councilmembers, well, the announcements.
 Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Regular committees. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, February 9th, 2021 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service, Tuesday, February 9th, 2021 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, February 9th at 1 p.m. Committee on community development, Tuesday, February 9th at 2 p.m.
 Councilmember, any announcements for your districts? Hearing none, motion. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Galamito.