Okay, we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Glumbach. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present.
 All right. Let's stand for the pledge. By the legions, certified, United States of America, and the Republic of Texas, I now present the President of the United States of America, Justice for All. Thank you very much. And at this time, we are joined, who is back with us, by our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Consul President.
 It'll be obvious in just a moment where I'm going with this, but I'm just opening with a question. Why does the council have memoriams every session? When we're in full council session, the memoriams that each of you offers on a biweekly basis, some that passed for relatives, some friends, some key parts of our districts and people that we valued so much and their loss means so much to us.
 Psalm 147.3 says, he heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. There are many that we've been brokenhearted at their passing.
 And even if you didn't know them well, there are others who have been brokenhearted as they passed. In the Hebrew Bible, God is introduced as the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. There's a sense of continuity. There's a sense of passing of batons generationally. And those in your districts, many of them, your support network, your support system, when they pass, it leaves a hole.
 When Deb and I lived in Hong Kong, the culture of Hong Kong honors the wisdom of the aged. Not every culture does, but I believe it's a godly attribute to honor the aged. We stand on the shoulders of those who went before us. So on a personal note about memoriams, I lost a mentor and father of my life for the last 38 years, Ray Bakke, at age 83 on Saturday. He passed.
 I wouldn't be where I am. I wouldn't be working in the city. I grew up on a farm in rural Pennsylvania. And when Ray Bakke came into my life in 1983 in Chicago, he took me to a point where he had me dreaming of cities being transformed. Did my master's with him in Chicago in the 80s, my doctorate with him in the 2000s.
 We studied around the world with Ray. Ray turned the world into a class. So Chicago, Seattle, New York, Alaska, Macau, Hong Kong, Shanghai. We went all those places and took classes where we studied those cities. And many of the things I learned is what helps me in understanding Buffalo better.
 In 2016, when I was working on my dissertation, I taught a class for Niagara University, Rebuilding the City. And I flew Ray in from Seattle to be the guest lecturer, and he opened this council in prayer in 2016. So I had that wonderful opportunity of having walked the world with Ray and then let him walk my city with me.
 So I'm going to pray and then at the end of my prayer, I'm going to close with a benediction Ray used for this council that day in 2016. Let's bow together in prayer. Father, we do pause to consider and recognize those that have gone before us.
 And the reason we do memoriams every session is because we always want to be reminded of where we came from, where our roots are intertwined. Lord, thank you for those who have made us stand taller as we stand on their shoulders, as we build on their legacy, as we accept the baton into our own hands. Lord, I...
 I thank you for what Ray meant in my life, but I thank you for each of the council members and people that are listening right now, and they're pausing to reflect on somebody very precious who's gone, and just how much brokenheartedness happens in that. Lord, heal us from so many of us who've had grief and loss, especially in the last two years.
 And Lord, Ray always looked ahead to a finer, better world. So I close today with Ray's benediction given to this council. To God be the glory, to the earth be peace, to the people of good faith and goodwill be courage, and to the cities be hope. Amen.
 Amen. Sorry for your loss and thank you for sharing and reminding us of why we do what we do in this council as far as memorials. With that said, council members, any memorials? Council Member Bowman?
 Thank you, Council President. In the Lovejoy District, we lost two members. One was Madonna Priori. She was actually our Republican chairperson for the Lovejoy District, and so she had a vast knowledge of
 of Lovejoy and she after this past election, I reached out to her and we were talking, had a great conversation, very knowledgeable and passionate about politics and government in general. And we had a really good conversation about trying to work together
 and do things great for Lovejoy, putting partisan politics aside and just work for the neighborhood. So, sad for her loss and we remember Madonna Priori. And then I also have Richard Mata who was a small business owner in our district. He owned All Access Builders on Clinton Street.
 He, life taken too soon, died at a young age and he ran a very successful business. Our executive director of planning, Brendan Mahaffey, always used to bring up Rich and his business because he had done Brendan's roof over the years and he was just a very successful business owner and, you know, our condolences to his friends and family. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to ask for the prayers for the family of Greg Washington. He was a classmate of mine that attended Seneca. Greg was just a really, really kind guy that talked to anybody and just one of the nicest people. He also worked with Herbert Moss and his team when they were doing the electrical work at True Bethel. So my heart goes out to his family and prayers to his family and his untimely passing. Thank you. Any others?
 I want to recognize our city clerk in the passing of her grandmother, Johnny White. Unfortunately, her husband
 passed away not too long ago. And so that's our city clerk's grandmother and grandfather. Also, we remember Sierra Bennett, who just recently passed a young lady, 17 years old. And we remember her and her family.
 I was funeralized here a few days ago. And all of these funerals are very, very difficult. But to see a young lady who has not even reached the prime of her life and have so many young people there, we want this sooner or later to be the exception and never to become the rule. And so we remember them. I didn't see any other hands going up.
 We always remember those who have given their life for our country, for the freedom of our country, or the freedom of other countries around this world. We pause now for a moment of silence. Thank you. We do have a presentation. There are several people on. I will...
 turn it over to Terry Alfred in a few minutes to talk about who's on. It is a presentation to the Michigan Street African American Heritage Corridor Commission. And it reads as such.
 and signed by all council members of this council. The Michigan Street African American Heritage Corridor Commission is a nationally and internationally recognized Buffalo neighborhood that serves as the focal point of residents and visitors experience for learning about Buffalo's rich African American history
 through its vibrant neighborhoods, shops, restaurants, unique structures, historical markers, people, and institutions, as well as its significant impact on local, national, and international histories.
 Whereas the corridor is along the Michigan Avenue, and many people don't know, it goes all the way from East Ferry on the north past the medical campus, Broadway Street, continuing to South Division Street. And whereas the Michigan Street corridor in Buffalo, New York, has been the heart corridor.
 of the African American community for over 185 years, starting with the formation of the Michigan Street Baptist Church in 1836 as the epicenter of the local abolition movement.
 The following decades would see the corridor as Buffalo's stage for desegregation of schools, the civil rights movement, the jazz age, and more. Now therefore, we members of the City of Buffalo Common Council recognize the Michigan Street African American Corridor Commission for the historical impact they have had on the City of Buffalo.
 And before I bring Mr. Alford forward, I grew up where there was a doctor's office, African-American doctor, Dr. Blackman had his office at the little Harlem, I believe, right? No, it wasn't that, it was upstairs somewhere. He was on the second floor, little Harlem I think was in the vicinity. But so many people would go and they would complain about this doctor. And I'll tell you why they complain, because he had so many patients
 that so many people wanted to see him that it was like, oh my goodness, you know you were going to go there and have to wait. Or the heyday, which was a little before my time, of the jazz in that area, but also the church and everything that is there. To me, this is one of Buffalo's gems.
 I look forward and I took a picture of a sign coming into Buffalo and it was a sign up when you get off of one of the highways and it said to canal side. And I thought to myself, I look forward to the day when the signs that point you to different attractions in our city, that there's a sign just as big as canal side that says African American Heritage Corridor.
 and points people that way too. I think we're very close to it. We have so much support from our state folks and local folks on the ground who are making sure that this corridor lives up to the really to the level of our ancestors and giving that level of respect that is deserved. Terry Alfred, if you'll introduce yourself, your position and who you have with you. We do have this
 proclamation signed by all council members to present to you. Well, thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for that great introduction. We appreciate all of you, the Buffalo Common Council and the City of Buffalo. Obviously, the Reverend Al Warner mentioned it in his opening prayer about
 transformational changes in cities and getting involved in that. And we're quite excited just to remind you that this coming Thursday evening we'll be rolling out our final strategic action plan as well as our economic development strategy in transforming the continued transformation of our corridor in particular the
 the corridor as a destination, as a compliment, are four cultural anchors, which includes the Michigan Street Baptist Church, Colored Musicians Club and Museum, the Nash House, and the Waffle Radio Black Radio History Collective. So we are quite excited, and we will make sure that Ms. Tayshia Elizabeth St. John gets the link,
 so that you can all participate in this great event on Thursday evening yourselves. So with that said, I'm extremely excited and happy to present members of our board and staff that's with us today to receive this proclamation. It includes board members Sharon Holly,
 It includes our Chair, George Scott, as well as our Vice Chair, Lily Wiley Upshaw. Those who cannot presently be present today includes Board Members Judge James McLeod, Dr. Cynthia Kanaitis, Dr. Lillian Williams, Ms. Dorothy Hill, Anthony Johnson, as well as
 because I'm forgetting people. But our board, even though I may have missed some, nonetheless, they are very important to us as we continue to move forward with our momentum. I'd also like to present our staff members, Project Manager Audrey Clark,
 as well as our consultant that's present with us today, Roxanne Kites. So with that said, I would formally like to introduce our chair, George Scott, who would like to thank you himself, as well as to provide final remarks. George. Thank you very much, Terry. I'd like to thank the city of Buffalo for this fine show of...
 you know, I guess, trust in us and respect for us. Again, this is a long time coming as far as putting this project together, and we're so happy to get to this point in time. And
 you know i feel by the end of this year where you can talk about greater things that this corridor will be showing to the city so again on behalf of uh the commission the club thank you very much if i may i just want to also acknowledge sheila brown who's uh just made the uh presentation herself we don't want to miss any board members believe me when i say that
 We understand, sir. You have to acknowledge the voice. So thank you all who are here. And we will make sure that you receive this proclamation personally in your hand within this week. Thank you. Council members, there are no other presentations or no comments on this one? All right. Thank you all. You all can go into your daily business of running the corridor. Thank you. All righty.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on January 25th, 2022 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? I object to the late file number 79, resolutions. Return the comment council to the council chambers for council committee meetings. Thank you. There's been an objection. That item will not be before us at this time.
 I'm not surprised. Okay. All right. So hearing that, are there any objections to any of the other late? Hearing no objections, we will hear from Council Member Wingo. Is Corporation Council on the line? This is Assistant Corp Council Karen Gordon. Is it not true that Council Member Chris Gellick can appeal to the body for that objection?
 Um, I do believe and I'm sorry at this moment, I would need to look at it closely but I do believe there's an appeal process that's built into our rules, but I would have to go look at it to see whether or not it can be, he can appeal it on the floor right now is that something you would like me to do. That's his decision. Yes, Karen I would. Okay, so let me go and look into it. Thank you.
 All right. So what we'll do is hold at this point, according to the bylaws, it has to be unanimous consent. We'll have Corporation Council look to see if there is a way for the council member to appeal that ruling. All right. Hearing none else, we'll come back to that at the end of the meeting or when Corporation, at the end of the meeting and hear the opine of our Corporation Council. Other than that, do we have anything out of order, Majority Leader? No.
 You're on mute, sir. Mr. Chair, motion to take item 78 out of order. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 78, discharge item 21-89 from Police Oversight Committee. Motion to adapt the discharge. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. From the top. Item number one, Sandra E. White appointment to Zoning Board of Appeals. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Motion to receive and file.
 Item 2, amend DDA extension for community services for everyone, Inc. Motion to approve items 2, 3, 4, and 5. Approve item number 6 with conditions. I don't know, what would you like to do with item 7? That's going to be approved, sir. Motion to approve item number 7 as well. Right. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Thank you.
 Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 8, report of sale 49, Lang. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item 9, report of sale 311, Lapeer. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item 10, report of sale 51 Northumberland. Motion to deny. Motion is denied. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wingo, did you want the floor? You're on mute, sir. Council Member Wingo, did you want to? You hear me? Yes. Okay. No. Thank you. Okay. The Corporation Council has advised that we should state a reason. Did you already submit it?
 my staff submitted the reason to central staff thank you so the reason for denial has been submitted by council member wingo to staff in writing next time item 11 reported sale portion of 36 laird motion to approve second by council member columbus council member bowman yes council member farrell yes council member glombeck yes council member nowakowski yes
 Council President Prichard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Can you hear me? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 12, Seeker Neck Deck 1681-1707 Main Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 13, We Are Nuts Broadway Market Lease Extension Agreement.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Noah Kowski. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Council Member Glombeck? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pritchard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Proton Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 14, December 2021 cash flow report.
 Motion to send finance items 14 and 15. Second by council member Golumbik. Item 16, change order, curb and joint repair. Motion to approve item 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21.
 22 is a late file that's going to prove if there's no objection. And 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28. Second by Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Glambach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes.
 Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 29, appoint police officers. Motion to receive and file items 29, excuse me, that's a Senate Civil Service item 29, 30. Second by Council Member Furlan.
 Item 31, permission to extend contract, Young and Wright Architectural. This is a late file. There are no objections. Motion to approve. Wright is motion to approve, second by Council Member Golombak. Council Member Buhlmann? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Ledda? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon?
 Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 32, appoint captain. Motion to send the civil service items 32, 33, and 34. Second by Council Member Bowen. Item 35, restaurant dance license, school entertainment. A motion to approve items 35. I don't know if 36 is an approve or not. This is in Fillmore District. That's correct. Item. Fillmore.
 for item number 36. Can we recommit please? Motion to recommit. So motion is to approve item 35. So you want to send it to committee. So we are approving item 35. So we'll get to item 36 when that was called. Second by, I think I gave a second already, or if not second by council member Golomba. Council member Baumann. Yes.
 Councilmember Glambeck? Yes. Councilmember Glambeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 36, visitor license 1482 Broadway. Motion to recommit.
 This would just, it's not a recommit because it's not coming right out of committee. So just be sending it to ledge. Motion to send a ledge. Items. Item 36, 37, 38, and 39. All right. Second by council member Noah Komsky. Item 40, food store license 57 Sussex. Motion to approve. Second by council member Wingo. Council member Bowman.
 Yes. Councilmember Farrellano? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item 41, Food Store License 796, Tonawanda. Motion to send the legislation to items 41, 42, and 43. Second by Council Member Fairlady. Item 44, Appoint Building Inspector. Motion to send the Civil Service items 44 and 45. Second by President Proctor. Item 46, Agreement Between Buffalo Water Board and Promise Network.
 Motion to send finance items 46 and 47. I'm a council member of Y. Item 48, appoint principal management analyst. Motion to send civil service items 48 and 49. Second by President Pro Temp scan. Item 50, liquor license notice 81 Abbott. Motion to receive and file items 50 and 51. Second by President Pro Temp scan. Item 52, appoint assistant collection officer.
 Motion to send the civil service items 52 and 53. Second by council member Golombi. Item 54, appoint legislative as aid. Motion to adopt items 54 and 55. Council member Wyatt. Item 56, letter to Commissioner Finn regarding snow plan improvements. Motion to send to finance. Council member Bolleman. Item 57, letter to request. Council President. I'm sorry. Council member Wyatt.
 Thank you, Council President. Just want to make a note on this item and thank Council Member Bowman for allowing this item to go to finance. We're using that item to speak on the issue regarding snow removal. We hope that tomorrow the residents will
 tune in and comment positively, hopefully, and how we can refine our snow removal process. I noticed last night that there were about 300 shares of the item. This is a very important issue that the residents want to speak on. It's an opportunity for them to weigh in on
 the process. I know that last night I had an interview with one of the news outlets, and they said that the administration had a plan that they were bringing forth. I don't think we've seen that as of yet, but I'm hopeful that their plan will include the listening session that's going to take place tomorrow from 530 to 7 through the Finance Committee. So thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. Is that it? Anyone else? Okay. Sorry if I missed you.
 All right. Next item. Item 57, letter to across quarterly BPS reports. Motion to send to the Education Committee, item 57 and 58. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 59, reasons for denial for item 21-1533. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 60, NYSP recruitment. Motion to send this CD item 60, 61, and 62. Second by Councilmember Golombik.
 Item 63, Special Use Permit 1208, 1200 hurdle. Motion to send to Legislation City Planning Board, Items 63 through 66. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Submissions list, Civil Service. Item number 1, Crystal Middleton, Director of Planning. Motion is to approve 1 and including 7. Second by the Majority Leader, Rivera. Council Member Bowman.
 Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Lombach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 8, Notice of Appointment, Labor 2, Seasonal.
 Motion is to receive and file items number eight and including through, if central staff can scroll down, 16. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Finance, item 17, September 2020 cash flow. Motion to receive and file item 17 up into item number 25. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera.
 Item 26, Western New York Law Center new procedure on handling of tax delinquent properties. Can we recommit number 26? Motion to recommit. Motion is to recommit. So did we already finish? I'm sorry. The motion to receive and file. We have to revisit that, clerk. It was finished through item 25. So the motion is to revisit item number 26, seconded by...
 Council Member Wyatt now to receive and I'm sorry to recommit second by Council Member Wyatt. Community Development Item 27 Report of Sale 60 Central. Motion is to approve Items 27 through and including 31 please. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lotto. Yes. Council Member Glombeck. Yes. Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 32, Mental Health Peer Connection. Motion is to receive and file items 32 through and including 36. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Legislation item 37, Second Hand Dealer.
 Motion to approve item 37 approved with conditions items 38 and 39. And do we have a, do we have 40 marks, it's in the South District for 39 I need to recommit that one. Okay, so motion to approve 37 and 38 with conditions, second by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Bowman. Yes.
 Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glombach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pritchard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 39, Use Card Dealer 1719 Seneca. This item is in the Lovejoy District. This is
 All right second by council member Bolden. Item 40 special use 160 Abbott for vehicle repair minor. This item is unmarked in the South district. Mr. Chair, can we please recommit that item? Yes sir. All right it's being recommitted second by the president from Tupac Scala. Item 41 special use 1250 Amherst for lighting.
 Motion is to deny based on the applicant withdrew the application. All right. Second by Council Member Glumman. Item 42, planned unit development 1681 through 1707 Main Street. Motion is to approve items 42, approve with conditions 43 and 44, approve 45, and approve with conditions item 46. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Second.
 Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Glombeck? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 47, Special Use 600 Delaware for Human Services Facility?
 This item, there's a motion to deny. The conditions are going to be set forth by the Fillmore Council member, and I would like to be recorded in the affirmative. All right, this is a motion to deny, and Council Member, did you want the floor? Yes.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I do want to just note that this, the reasons for denial have been filed with this council. They're under the section of miscellaneous item number 59 and the item number is 22-185. You will find the reasons for denial that have been based on the approval standards within the green code. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Stating the reasons for denial, please record the council member Fairletto.
 in voting for this item. And yes. Okay. Well, did you, did I give you a second? Second, we'll be coming to you for Milakowsky. Councilmember Buhlmann? Yes. I'm sorry, this is a denial. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto was recorded in the negative for the denial? Yes. Yes. Correct. Item 48, Breonna's Law, no, not for rents.
 The motion is to receive and file and Corporation Council is asked to speak on this item. And she may be off on another item. She did speak to this item in the committee meeting, and it is stated here that this is a state level issue. And the at this point, the council can do nothing at our level to change the law because it is the law of the state.
 And so we just wanted to let the public know that the reason for this receiving file is not because we did not want it. It is because at the city level, we do not have the authority. The federal government is the one who gives the state the really the opportunity to weigh in on this, to create law and not the local government. All right.
 Police oversight item 49, cease ticketing victims of car theft for leaving vehicles running. Motion on this one is? I'm not sure if council member Chris Scanlon wanted to speak on this. Can we send this to community development please? Motion to send the CD. Motion to send to CD, second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Resolutions item 67, senior awareness day.
 Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Buhlmann. Item 68, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 337-27, Ordinary Maintenance and Repair. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Freeland. Item 69, support for Buffalo Religious Arts Center for State Grant Application. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item 70, way fees for Club 49ers. Motion to adopt as well. Second by Councilmember Golombic.
 Item 71, Budget and Personnel Amendment. Motion to approve items 71 and 72. Second by Councilmember Noah Kouski. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glanbeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera?
 Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 73, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 73 and 74. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 75, Old First Ward Neighborhood Parade Flag and Fee Waiver. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 76, Appoint Marriage Officer. Motion to adopt items 76 and 77. Motion to adopt items 76 and 77. Motion to adopt items 76 and 77.
 Excuse me, I'd like to speak on 77 briefly. Mr. Chair, you're on mute. Sorry, you have the floor. Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, the Police Advisory Board was formed by a resolution passed unanimously by this council. This resolution amends the previous resolution. In the past, all they needed to do was to approve an appointment of a board member.
 going forward they will have to approve, submit to this council on a board member that they would like to see considered and confirmed by the common council. We have had a number of resignations in the last two weeks, including both the co-chairs and other board members. They have emailed us, texted us, and in-person spoken to us regarding
 a situation within the board structure, some tensions, some members that didn't get along. Our goal is to have a board that's functioning and that is working on behalf of the Common Council, behalf of the community, and working with along with the police department. There will be no appointments to this board unless they're properly vetted and confirmed by this Common Council. There are only a few board members left
 They've done great work and we hate to lose good board members because of internal problems. So hopefully they'll resolve those problems. But going forward, the Common Council will be confirming new board members. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
 Thank you. And thank you for your work on the oversight committee and chairing that. And obviously, we've had a lot of momentum and movement and conversation. And I would hate for that to go away so that we are we continue to work together with the administration, with the police department and with the public. And I think that was the reason that you placed that in in.
 into action. And so I think that it is very important that they remain and that we have a body who will help us to maneuver these waters. And the second on that is Council Member Wyatt, if you didn't get it, because I was on mute. Item 80, trailblazing sign for Bishop Jacqueline A. Foy. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lotta? Yes. Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pritton? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 81, bond resolutions. Motion to send the finance items 81. Can you scroll up?
 through and including 102. All right, second by council member Wyatt. No further items. We do have one item we're waiting for the corporation council to apply. Yes, I'm here whenever you're ready. We're ready.
 Okay, great. So the question was asked whether there was a procedure to respond to the objection on the floor. In our rules, we don't have one, but by official Robin's rules of law, there is a process, a procedure that follows when there's an objection. And so I can read that object, that procedure out, and we can do that if the body pleases. So after the
 the objection made by Council Member Wyatt. At this point, any other member of the council can object to his objection and call for what is called a debate or a discussion of the matter, after which
 A roll call would have to be made by the Common Council President and the matter can be sent or considered by the body if there is a two-third vote on the issue. So it cannot, not just a simple majority, but it has to be a super majority not a foot of the matter to be heard.
 So as I said, initially, we have the motion, the objection by Council Member Wyatt. Any other Council Member could now object to that motion and ask for a debate on the floor. After the discussion, then a roll call for a vote would be had by the Common Council President. And if there's a two-third vote in favor of, then the item can be
 considered as part of the agenda, but if there is not, then the item is left off the agenda for today. Thank you. Is the debate on the floor about the item or about the procedure? Yes, about the item. I'm sorry. About that. Can you read that? About the item, yes. After the objection made by the council member, any other council member can now object to that objection and ask for a floor debate on the matter.
 Following the floor debate on the matter, Common Council President Kendall called for a vote or roll call. If there is two-thirds voting in favor for the item to be considered, then the item is considered as part of the agenda. If not, the item is not considered as part of the agenda for today. All right, Council Member Revere.
 Thank you very much. Just a point of clarification. This is a late file. We've had late files in the past where somebody has objected to something that I have filed and there was no debate, no discussion on the matter because it was the late file. And so I'm trying to understand how...
 this varies from our past practices and to this today, when on other lay files there were no discussion simply based on the objection. My understanding is that this does not vary. This is the first time actually I've actually been asked specifically,
 whether or not this ends with the objection. I've never been asked that before. I actually had to go and research it. But our rule says that it can be an objection, and one objection is sufficient to not consider the late file, and that's what occurred today. But we've never went further into looking into whether or not anything else can be done. So having been asked that,
 I went and investigated. And as I said, in our rules, it doesn't spell that out in our rules, but under Robert Rusev procedure, it's there. And so that's what I'm giving to you as a possible, I guess, solution to the situation. All right. I'm going to go to, and I know eventually the chair has to rule, Council Member Golomba.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I remember I have to concur with Council Member Rivera. I can remember in the past when there was an objection to a late file, unless it came, I believe, from the executive branch, because there's a different set of rules for that.
 that the item was just considered not in front of us and it automatically came in front of us at the next upcoming uh council meeting um but i also remember didn't we a couple of years ago make some changes to some of our bylaws and incorporate more of the uh robert's rules of order um so that might have made some changes there um
 But, you know, I just, I remember what Mr. Rivera mentioned as well. And I mean, and that's even going back to the 80s when I was an intern and a legislative assistant many years ago.
 Yeah, the when I got here the council was using a different set of rules of orders and then I've come to council member Scanlon and Wingo. And the Roberts rules of orders what we voted now I've also had an objection to a late file. When I got here about how long it should take to fill a council seat by the council, it was objected and there was no discussion. And so I'm
 We'll continue as we're having a debate about this procedure and I'll make a decision. President Pro Tem Scandal. Thank you. To the points that have been made, just because I've been here nine and a half years and you're right, there's been objections in the past and we've not heard them, but I don't recall anyone objecting to the objection. And just because no one has taken that step,
 So I would ask corporation council. If this is the process that is on the books for this council. Those are the that's the process. The fact that someone hasn't. In that did them or called the use them. That doesn't really matter. Does it. So I'm going to be, I'm going to try to be as clear as possible. Over rules and regulation that is created by the common council. And that is the process that is on the books for this council. And that is the process that is on the books for this council. And that is the process that is on the books for this council. And that is the process that is on the books for this council. And that is the process that is on the books for this council.
 Rule 33 speaks about the objection to a late file, but that's all it speaks of. It does not give a process as to what happens after there is an objection. It says if there's an objection by any one member, then it does not have to come to the floor, right? But it does not say anything else. But Robert, rules of law goes into detail about objections, what happens after objection has been made on the floor and what can be done.
 So if we look at the filing deadline on the Rule 33 for our rules, it says, any petition or resolution or communication which was not presented to the city clerk in compliance with the deadline stated above shall not be considered at said meeting except by unanimous consent of all members present at said meeting. And that's what it says. And that's where it ends.
 It doesn't say anything more. But since the question was asked to me to go and look into it, I'm reporting what I've seen. Our rules does not speak anything specific other than what I've read. But Robert rules of law does also speak about objections and the process and procedures there. Council member, did that answer for you? Council member Wingo. Thank you. From our recollection,
 our rules do specify that we do follow the Roberts Rules of Order regarding Parliamentary Procedure. There's not one person, even the chair of a committee, who can make a unilateral decision if an appeal is motioned. If an appeal is motioned, in other words in this case an objection to the objection, that means it has to be heard if that objection to the objection has a second.
 You cannot ignore a person who makes a motion and they receive a second. So if Councilmember Scanlon makes an objection to the objection of Councilmember Wyatt and Councilmember Scanlon's objection to the objection to second it, it has to be heard and not even the chair can refute that. And whatever the decision the chair makes after that still can be appealed to the body.
 So the system is put in place to ensure that everyone's voice is heard at all times. And if the motion does not get a second, that is the only time a member cannot be heard. And the chair can then at that point either make the decision to allow them to speak and have the floor or not to have the floor. And those are the rules for the parliamentary procedure regarding appeals and objections or appeals, period.
 thank you sir i respectfully disagree on some of the points because at the end of the day at the end of the day when there is a debate on the floor about procedure it is the chair who has to make a decision on what the information is that has been received
 Um, saying that I disagree with some of the points. Um, at the end of the day, we have in front of us, we have asked our corporation council to opine on this. I feel that we have to in the future, we're really going to have to flesh this out, go back to our rules and make sure there is no gray area so that we all know we have begun this meeting.
 week after week with any objections and in the past procedure has been that we would continue to move on. However, as the chair and the president of this common Council, and having heard both sides, I am
 If this council would like to bring this item before us, we can bring this item before us. But I would suggest that within before our next meeting, we work out the gray areas of this. Anyone else want to be heard on the procedure of anything new? All right. Council Member Wyatt.
 Mr. President, if Ms. Gordon can opine that because the council has done this routinely and no one has said it's been wrong, and if this was something to go to court, the court would look at the basis in which we deal with previous objections. And we've always said that when that objection occurs, that item would no longer be discussed. Is that something that would pertain to this, Ms. Gordon? Mr. Chair, thank you.
 Sorry, Karen Gordon, Assistant Court of Counsel. I don't want to get confused your question, but are you asking whether we would be able to say to the court that routinely we have not had an objection to an objection and so
 we should not do that now? Is that what you're asking? I'm saying because the precedent has always been what we've normally done, that you open the meeting up with late files, and if there's an objection, we have not addressed it, that item has gone away. That's what I'm saying. Because of that, do we continue to go with what we've done? Because that's what we've always done. Or are you saying that we have to include the Robert's rule of orders even though
 Yeah. So well, precedent does not necessarily mean correct. So even though we may in the past have been doing something in a particular way, if it has been brought to light, that there are some hiccups, then we should clean it up if we know, right, if we have knowledge of such.
 And so I think this might be a situation where we've just never had anybody question an objection to the late file in the past. Like we normally have late file. If there's an objection, it's objection. We just move along. But for the first time, I've been asked, as I said, I've never been asked to look into this before. Can what can be done?
 And so having looked into it, now we can see that our rules does not go far enough. It does not say anything else after the fact that you can have the objection. Robid rules of law or parliamentary procedures does govern all public body and the process and procedures of public bodies.
 So even if our rules says one thing, that established body will still supersede, right? Because that's what basically controls how we conduct business as a public body. So I think, you know, while we may have been doing it one way in the past, if we are now aware that that might not be the best way, then we should make those corrections for the future. Right, President Prochazkian.
 Karen, I'm going to be very clear. Can I object to the objection or not? You can. Motion to object to the objection. Second.
 All right, there's a motion to object to the objection. And again, we'll work on this. And so there is a second to the objection of the objection. I'm going to read into the record so that there is clarity. And I don't want to confuse this. I want to get to the item and be done with it, whatever we're going to do with it. The presiding officer shall preserve the quorum, enforce the rules of procedure herein prescribed and determined without debate.
 subject to the final decision of the council on appeal. All questions are procedure in order. Any member may appeal to the council from such ruling of the presiding officer, and if the appellant is duly seconded, the appellate may speak once solely on the question involved, and the presiding officer may explain his ruling, but no other members shall participate in the discussion.
 The presiding officer shall then put the question, quote, shall the decision of the chair be sustained? If a majority of the members present vote nay, the ruling of the chair is overruled. Otherwise, it is sustained. So to move this item forward, I am going to make a decision as is authorized by our rules of the presiding officer rulings on appeal.
 My ruling will be that we will hear this item and make a decision on this item. And so the question must be asked, shall the decision of the chair be sustained? And if a majority of the members vote nay, the ruling of the chair is overruled. I have made a ruling as I have the authority to do.
 I'm going to ask Ms. Wright to take a roll call on whether my ruling will be sustained. Council Member Bowman. Point of clarification. Point of clarification. Before you ask the first vote, Mr. Chair, what exactly is your ruling? My ruling is to bring the item before us. Okay. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrell-Ledda. Yes. Council Member Glambach. Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? No. All right the item is before us and I do apologize um this is a something that has happened in the past I have made a ruling on it uh Councilmember Scanlon you brought this item before she got for her Scanlon
 Thank you. Now that we are past that, in light of continuously decreasing COVID numbers here in Western New York, I believe that we should return to council chambers for both our committee meetings and our full council meetings. The residents of the city of Buffalo have elected us to represent them and we should be here doing so.
 Far too often in our remote meetings, calls are dropped, internet connection is disrupted, and background noise and activity interrupt the flow of our meetings. The people's work is not being done to the level it could and should be. We can very easily and safely return to our council chambers. Our firefighters are working in fireplaces and
 in close proximity. Our police stations are open. We have public works employees reporting to work. Our engineering and janitorial staffs are here in the building. There's no reason we cannot resume our meetings in person. I believe there's four or five council members in City Hall right now for this meeting. In the past, we've had upwards of seven.
 I want to be very clear about one thing before I move any forward. This is in no way, shape, or form an indictment of the tremendous work Jim Montour, Taisha St. John, and our staff has done navigating the challenges of the past two years. As a matter of fact, I commend them on their accomplishments, which they have pulled off on the fly with no real warning and continuously adapted to, to ensure that we were communicating with and representing our constituents.
 in the public the best we could. But doing the best we could is not good enough. We must continuously strive to be better. Technology is wonderful, but it cannot replicate meeting in person. It's not the same thing.
 And quite frankly, I would find it comical if it wasn't so sad that Councilmember Wyatt objected to this late file. I mean, I sit here every other Tuesday during a council meeting where he and the council president are in council chambers during our meetings. Mr. Scanlon, you have to keep it on the item, not on a council person. I sit here every week, every meeting, and watch other members in the council chambers taking part in our meetings from council chambers. There's no reason the rest of us can't. We have a responsibility to our constituents
 to be in those chambers doing their work. We have a responsibility to see them face to face. We have a responsibility to speak to them. I don't know about other council members, but I still go out to public meetings. I'm still meeting with constituents in person. I'm still out in the community. In addition to that,
 Have all of us stopped going to restaurants? Have we all stopped any sort of traveling, in particular by airplane? Are we sending our children to school? As the legislative body of the city of Buffalo, we have a responsibility to lead the way on topics like this, to apply common sense to the problem and not lean on arbitrary numbers to determine when it is safe to bring a couple dozen people at most into a room that's built for 400. I mean, what happens if this arbitrary number teeters back and forth on its axis, on its edge?
 Are we going to be in person, then remote, in person, then remote? It's a complete disservice to our constituents. In addition to that, and I believe even more problematic, is the fact that I have watched over the course of the past two years, the level of decorum during these meetings dropped precipitously.
 There has been a clear shift in the way people speak to each other and the way people are conducting themselves during our meetings, which once again accomplishes nothing and accomplishes not what we've been elected to do. And like I said earlier, there's no replicating these meetings and I find it again funny, based on the way he conducts himself that council member Wyatt would object to this and not want to be back in person to be able to conduct himself in a professional manner.
 Also, because our meetings and times, and finally I'll stop with this, but because our meetings and times and locations can be onerous on the public, I do not believe we can simply go back to the way things were. I believe we should offer the residents the opportunity to take part in our meetings remotely. Based on conversations I've had, I believe that we can have
 council chambers up and running in a hybrid manner with soon as the as soon as staff has are very capable staff has all the equipment necessary to do so. So I'll be following up with them to determine what they might need. I'd be willing to use discretionary funding to purchase it. So again, I think we need to be back in chambers doing the people's business as soon as possible.
 Thank you, Councilmember, and I agree that we do need to be back in as soon as possible. I think that one of the concerns was we just received your resolution within an hour of going in the chambers. I have sent out to all, I'll come to you, I have sent out to all Councilmembers a response about, and this was a few days ago, of why we went out, and it was based on the science and suggestions from higher government.
 The threshold for us to leave out was by science, not by computer failure. It was 300 days, seven day average. We are almost close to that and probably will be coming back into chambers very soon when we hit that threshold.
 At the end of the day, I do understand I'm on several boards, government boards, Bureau of Buds, EECIDA, and others who also are meeting the same way. When I talked to some of those leaders, it was based on this. We do not have the same protocols that schools have.
 We do not have nurses here if someone is sick. We do not have the temperature checks here in the chamber and somebody to follow up on them if someone tests. So there is a threshold. We are following the science, and I agree. I want to be back in, but I want to make something very clear. No one has ever been told, no council member, and I've said this out of my own mouth,
 Any council member that wants to be in these chambers can come in these chambers. Now, opening it up to the public in a way, and we've heard from both sides, when the pandemic began and we were limiting the amount of staff, I heard from people who said,
 We don't want anybody in. It is always a balancing act when you're in leadership to try to do the right thing for your constituents, for your people, for your employees. Both our council staff and our clerk staff office have gone to a different way of scheduling so we keep everyone safe. We don't know what tomorrow holds and being in leadership is a real tough position.
 But I have stated the reason that we are still out and we cannot simply come back and some of the things you have brought up. We could have discussed because we've already directed our central staff to look at different models you all I hope you know I'm not against any way of doing government better. And that happens with discussion.
 I am not prepared to vote on this today because we're just receiving it. And some of what you have, we are already talking about. If you want to vote on it, we can. I'm going to respectfully ask that it go to committee because there are other council members who want to weigh in and who have ideas. And frankly, we've been working on this for about a month and a half.
 And I've kept you all updated of the 300 threshold. We do not have the controlled space of a school that knows who's coming in the building that is able to contact trace very quickly. We don't have that.
 And so at the end of the day, if we could, I mean, and this is up to you, you brought it up. If we could send this to committee, I'd be fine with that because then we could all work together, keep ourselves safe, move this item forward, work with where we are, and we are not doing this by resolution. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you. Yes, the resolution was filed today, but I sent an email nine days ago to everyone.
 just trying to start a discussion about this. I had three council members respond and you were one of them. I had two other council members respond that they wanted to come back in the chambers. When other people don't respond, I have to obviously try and have the conversation somehow. If they don't want to have it in private, we can have it in public. As far as temperature checks, we
 We have temperature checks when you're coming into the building. As far as other boards operating the way they do, the other boards, things like that, are not beholden to the public to the extent that we are. They do not have to interact with the public to the extent that we do and to the extent that we should be.
 So again, and I firmly believe that a seven day rolling average of 300 people or 300 cases is just some arbitrary number at this point. You're gonna see it come up, you're gonna see it go down. And like I said earlier, if it drops below 300, three days later, if it goes back up a couple numbers back over, are we gonna be in and out? So again, I'm ready to vote on it today. People wanna vote it down, that's fine, but I'm ready to be back in chambers
 as soon as possible, as soon as staff can have it up and running for us to do the people's work. Well, and I totally agree with you. I just think we all need to work together so that we are working together to move that. You're part of the leadership of this council and we all work together. Council Member Behr. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I wanna thank you for your leadership, for working with people, talking to people, and taking the science into account and looking at the data and the stats that are out there.
 I think this is a matter of public safety and that is paramount here. The reasons we're not in chamber was to protect not only ourselves, but other folks that came into the building as well.
 And I agree. I think that this is something that needs to be discussed. It should have been discussed within leadership, I honestly believe. I think that we can communicate better when we sit down and talk to each other. Certainly I would have liked to have discussed this prior to today in a meeting between us.
 It's unfortunate that we haven't, but I want to give you and commend you. You paid close attention to the data, whether it was coming from the state, where it was coming from the county executive. That is very important to look at that and not do a disservice by saying that doesn't matter. Yes, it does matter. Perhaps in different parts of this country, there's a great debate going on right now. And I can see this is coming into the council chambers as well.
 But I'd rather side on the side of precaution and safety. So thank you for your leadership in making sure that we're safe. And I think that's what's paramount. Thank you. Thank you. Was there another hand up? All right, Council Member Scanlon. Yeah, as I stated in response to Council Member Rivera's point, as I stated, I did try to have the conversation. Council Member Rivera did not respond to the email.
 I sent an email nine days ago asking what people thought, let's have a conversation about this, and three people responded. In eight, nine, or 10 days, I'm not exactly sure of the date. I can't have a conversation if people don't want to take part in it. All righty. Mr. Chairman, I've always made myself accessible. I'll phone call away. You have accessed me, you have text me. I've never not returned a call. Thank you very much. I appreciate you. I was an email away, you didn't respond to me.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I saw the council member, our council president's response to the email and I kind of, you know, just assume that was the conversation going on. I didn't know that you were expecting a direct email back but I'm saying on phone call text away. I absolutely want to get in council chambers.
 as much as anyone else does. I think I've been in chambers for a handful of meetings since becoming a council member. So obviously the virtual isn't fun, but I do believe council president has led us through this the entire time he's made decisions based on our safety. He has reasons for these decisions, but I think sending it to committee, and that's what I'm saying right now is I would like to see this go to committee. We could talk it out. We could see some of the reasoning why he's basing his decision
 on what he is and make a decision for that. So that's how I'm going to vote based on sending this to committee. If it comes before, I'm not going to vote in favor of it, but I absolutely do want to get into council chambers sooner. And, you know, we'll take it from there. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Continuing this conversation is critically important since tomorrow the governor will be releasing potentially new guidelines of masking in schools and in public places. And I know that the county executive is working today on providing statements on how the Erie County will move forward. So as I can see now that this is a fluid conversation that needs to continue. I do wanna note for the record that
 It's slightly unusual since I've been a member of this Common Council for us to engage in this debate. And although debate is nothing to be weary of because it's a back and forth of ideas and of conversations, I do know that every single person on this Common Council is an honorable person. They all are. We are all unique and different. And we oftentimes do the best work when we have conversations. And I do believe that.
 We need to have better conversations among all of us as council members to effectively do the business of this council. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Council Member Scanlon. I'd like to make a motion to adopt the resolves and send the remainder to committee. All right. Thank you.
 to adopt the results, which would mean the council would be voting to bring the council back in. Is there a second to that? All right, so I want to be clear that this is, and there's a motion on the floor, but I want to make sure that everybody understands that voting for this would just call this council back into session without the discussion at committee. Roll call. Mr. Chair? Yes. I just want to be clear, the-
 The resolves do not call for a certain date or anything like that. They just simply direct public works, our council staff, whoever else needs to be to coordinate to get us back in there as soon as possible. Okay. And in the state that it's in now, I wouldn't be able to support that because I think that we will begin running this council by resolution. We've been doing it for 10 years. There is a roll call. You wanted a vote, Council Member Scanlon?
 All right, roll call. Council Member Bowman? No. Council Member Farrell-Lowda? Can you clarify an item? I haven't had an opportunity to read the resolution. I'm in favor for us having a discussion on it next week. Does the resolution call for... I don't know what the resolution exactly calls for.
 I support us. I support us certainly having remote options for all public hearings. I don't
 I don't know what I don't know what else we're voting on because I haven't read it. So that the Buffalo Common Council directs common staff, common council staff to coordinate with the Department of Public Works and the city's clerks to provide hybrid meetings for the common council and public to take place in council chambers. Be it further resolved that the copies being sent out.
 And I think what is at discussion is whether this all should just go to committee and then we talk about it, or whether we are directing council staff to do something that we have not had discussion on.
 Well, I support, can we pass, is there something that we can pass that everyone could agree on and we could move forward? If we, I think all of us agree that we should look at the possibility of having remote, the option of remote. And I think the majority of people here, I think everyone here agrees that we should come back at some point. So I don't know what we all disagree on. I think we're all at that,
 at that point. Vote has already started. It's about started. Number one, sorry, the vote has started. Please, Council Member Frioletto. Yes, no. I at this point, I don't have the resolution. I don't have the resolution in front of me at this point. I am voting no on it, but I think we should come to something. I agree. I agree. Next. Council Member Glanbeck. No. Council Member Nowakowski. No. Council President Prichard. No.
 Majority Leader Rivera? No. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? No. All right. Thank you all. Announcements? Mr. Chair, so at this point, what happens to that item? It was asked to be voted on and it was voted on. No, I know that. What happens to the item now? The item is defeated. Unless it is resubmitted, the item has been defeated.
 It doesn't automatically come back to us. It would have come back to us based on Councilmember Wyatt's objection in two weeks. At this point, like any other vote on this council, that was not passed. It was denied. Announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. Special Committee on Finance, Wednesday, February 9th, 2022 at 5.30 p.m. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, February 15th.
 2022 at 9 45 a.m committee on finance following civil service at 10 a.m committee on community development tuesday february 15th at 1 o'clock pm committee on legislation tuesday february 15th at 2 o'clock pm special committees committee on education tuesday february 15th at 11 o'clock am
 All righty, council members, announcements for your districts. Council member Mitch Nowakowski. Mr. Chair, thank you. Every day at the Broadway Market is a great time to shop, especially in February, where there is Buy Black Business Buffalo at the Broadway Market, where vendors can pop up for free. They just have to call the main office. But every single Saturday, there are a new set of vendors that have been coming in.
 and providing products that we haven't had in a very long time if and or ever. So please stop in your Saturday shopping to the Broadway Market. Wow, that's cool. Thank you. Anybody else? All right, seeing no hands. Thank you, council members. Motion? Motion to adjourn. Second by council member Wingo.