And they were told what to do, what not to do. So there is some question whether we'll be approving in the committee what is before us for this business. But I thank the community for being involved. But that was misinformation. Next item. Item 37, Local 282, Public Safety Concerns. Motion to send the CD items 37 through 39. Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item number 40, Seeker Determination of Type 2 Actions, Special Use Permit 1084, Inwood. Motion to adopt items 40 through 42. Second by Councilmember Feraletto. Item number 43, Sam Herbert, Letter for MLK, Statute Removal. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Petitions, item number 44, special use, 193 Leroy Avenue for Neighborhood Shop. Motion to send the legislation to City Planning Board, items 44 through 47. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Submission list, Civil Service Committee, item number 1, appoint heavy equipment operator. Motion is to approve items 1 through and including 6. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 7, notices of appointment, temp, provisional and permanent. Motion is to receive and file item number seven. Second by Council Member Bowman. Finance Committee, item number eight, transfer of funds to prior year claims. A motion to approve items number eight and nine. Second by President Protope Scanlon. Community Development, item number ten, report is sold for 31 North or up West. Motion is to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 11, reported cell 71, Westminster. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member White. Legislation, item number 12, special use permit, 1084 Elmwood for Tapper. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Temp. Scantley. Item number 13, Unified Development Ordinance Progress Report. Motion to receive and file. Second by the Majority Leader, Rivera. Item number 14, Full Start License 385, Busty. Motion to approve with conditions items 14 and 15. Second by the Majority Leader, Rivera.
 Claims. Item number 16, Wilson Morales versus City of Buffalo. Motion is to approve. Second by Council Member White. Resolutions item number 48 fee waiver for Norzel Aldrich way trailblazers I motion to approve items 48 and 49 second by councilmember why I don't number 50 bound resolution technology improvements and upgrades motion to send the finance items 50 through 77 second by councilmember Bowman I don't number 78 capital budget amendment for Public Works motion to approve Second by, I'm sorry, for some reason the speakers are not showing up here. They're not showing up on my computer at all. I see someone, was that you, Council Member Wingo? Yeah. You sure? We can go back to an item that's not showing up here. Council Member Wyatt, was that you? Next item. Okay, it just came in. All right, next item. Just got to get a second on 78. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Okay. Item number 79, extended the warning period for school speed zones. Motion to send without recommendation. Wait a second, 79, what would you like deferred to council member? Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second by council member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Thank my colleagues for supporting this. You know, we just want to make sure that we put something in place that the public is not being penalized through this process. And it doesn't seem like the public is at yet comfortable with it, especially when you see that there are individuals who are getting tickets from police officers in the school zone, as well as there's concerns from residents who are not being able to see the signage. We've made a number of recommendations. that hope the administration will take into place that To have these dates the hours for these school zones to be a fix so that in the morning when children are coming between the hours possibly of 7 to 9 30 and possibly in the evening when they're departing from 3 30 to 5 30 and with flashing lights So everyone knows and is very much aware that you're entering a school zone and you have to slow down. I So these are things that I think that giving us a little bit more time will hopefully give the administration time to fine-tune this process because we don't want anyone to think this is a money grab. This is really about the safety of our children. And if we don't put the fine-tuning in place, people will see it as a money grab. Right now, people are a little bit concerned. the grace period coming up on Friday I think to give us more time so that people aren't penalized and we have a smooth process in place is warranted so what would be the new date February 29th thank you sir councilmember Wingo Thank You mr. chair as with any new policy or with any new legislation there are going to be changes that we have to manage and Of course, nothing is going to be rolled out perfect. That's what this body is for, to see what policies we put in place that may need amendments or that may need changes. That's what we're here for. However, I don't think that the spirit of the school speed zone cameras is to penalize It's literally to protect our students. And we have to be very careful as we move forward that it doesn't seem like we're trying to protect speeders more than we're trying to protect students. Because when you look at the legislation, of course there are going to be some things that need to be modified and revisited. And again, we're doing that. And I appreciate my colleagues for ensuring that this goes through. But we need to make sure that also that we're not advocating for people who are complaining because they don't want to slow down when there's a school zone in the area. Now, as it relates to the signage, I think that the city could potentially do more to ensure that the drivers are aware that there are signs in the vicinity because there are some schools that are set back so far that you can't see them from the street and a driver may not be aware that there's a school back on Appenheimer and if you drive within that radius on any of those side streets, you could potentially get a ticket. So I think that we could do a little bit better with our signage. And again, as far as the money grab situation, don't speak. If you're around a school, don't speed. We can put up flashing lights. We can put up billboards that says don't speed, and some folks will still speed. You know, I can see it being a mistake because you didn't know there was a school there the first time. You received a warning. But this is something that's received a lot of coverage because of the accusations from certain sects in our community that accuse us. of trying to make money off of impoverished communities, which I believe is totally and unequivocally ridiculous. So I would agree that we should extend the grace period. But after that grace period, of course, naturally, we'll be going back to revisit and revise the legislation to make sure that, let's say, for instance, the cameras are on and active for a certain window during drop-off, They're on and active for a certain time period at pickup that way No one's being penalized when the children are in school when the school zones are active schools on speed zone areas with that I Do agree with my colleague to to give him another extended period but after that extension of course Don't speed around schools and I would hope that we would be more intent as we're driving throughout the city because again, I remember years ago when I sat on a jury, the judge ruled in favor of the driver who hit a pedestrian. because the pedestrian crossed diagonally across the street and didn't cross at the crosswalk. But in that jury, Mr. Chair, I remember the judge saying that it is the driver's responsibility to see what can be seen. And in this instance, if the signs are poorly posted, let's make sure that the signs are conspicuously placed so that all drivers can see them, so that they are visible. And if they are visible, if a person should get a ticket, they should get a ticket. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. I concur pretty much with what my colleague said. Some of the complaints that I've received in the office were from some people that had gotten the tickets in the mail or the pre-tickets in the mail. And they said that they were in different parts of the city and they said, and these were people that I knew, that I trusted, and they said, honestly, I didn't know I was in a school zone until I got about halfway through it. And, you know, one of the things that I'm going to do with Mr. Finn in North, and I will encourage him to do this throughout the entire city, is I'd love to see the flashing lights like they have in suburban school districts. You know, you're on a route out in the country and you're all of a sudden in a school district and the flashing lights, you can't miss them. And I'm not sympathetic to people who are speeding in school zones, especially if there's the flashing lights. I mean, I honestly believe there are some people, when you go into different neighborhoods or different parts of the city, that you're not usually in, you don't necessarily know that there's a school there, or you catch it halfway through and you slow down. But I do think that we have to do something with the lighting and with the yellow markings in the school districts for the safety of the kids, and to make residents aware. I mean, it's not about being a money grab, it is about the safety of the kids. But if you're speeding, you're gonna get caught. But there should be fair warning in front of the schools. Thank you. and i know that councilmember why brought this up yesterday in caucus about the lights and we were told the expense of it but i think that when you talk about the expense of it especially since the city will be receiving revenue from those who just decide they're still going to speed through that we should be able to in some way find some money for the lights I got a ticket in New Orleans right before the storm happened and I paid it two days before the storm happened it probably got washed away before I paid it but the I didn't know that I was in the school zone had no idea no flashing lights know anything I go through at the regular speed of the street And I got a ticket. I paid it, but at the end of the day, I think a lot of people will go through that if we don't do the flashing lights. And I think that whatever that cost is, we should find the money. There will be additional revenue. So I think there's a lot of support for flashing lights. All right. Did I get a second on that? All right. Next item. Item number 80, fund balance replenishment policy. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member White. Council Member White, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. This item was submitted, and I thank my colleagues, Mr. Councilmember Nowakowski and Bowman Revere and Council President for supporting it. We've been going through this process and waiting for a policy to put in place, and this is actually the replenishment of it. And I'm currently working on a schedule to utilize funds or recommend funds that we can utilize to replenish this, because this is critically important. The Comptroller's Office came to our last committee meeting and talked about the upcoming, possible upcoming of a new bond rating. And we have not done anything as far as this policy goes. We could be downgraded additionally. because we haven't done anything. So I think it's important for us to do this. I thank my colleagues for supporting this because it's something that I think is really important for us to make sure that we establish the stability of the city of Buffalo. We've come a long way, but we still have a ways to go. But absent of not doing this is really making us irresponsible. This is a responsible thing to do. We're trying to go about it responsibly. I called the meeting several weeks ago from the administration and the controller's office. They canceled on me. It's okay because the controller has invited us to another meeting on February 6th. She invited the entire council. I believe many of us will be there. And so I think we begin this process. But this is something that I think is extremely important. The council is a co-equal branch of government. It's our legal responsibility to ensure that our finances are in order. We approved the budget. And so I think this is the right step in the right direction and I thank my colleagues for the support and I hope That we will get the support to do the right thing to make sure that we make sure the city's in good financial shape When the upcoming rating happens. Thank you. Mr. President. Thank you. Mr. White councilmember All right councilmember revere. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. I just want to commend, uh finance committee chair uh for introducing this resolution We've had discussions on fund balance policy over a number of months. Initially it was proposed, I believe, by Comptroller Schroeder's office, and eventually it was proposed by the former acting Comptroller and now by this Comptroller. When we looked at the credit rating agencies and recommendations that they made, it was something that was suggested. We have broached this. Certainly the administration's support is critically important as well. So we want to work. First of all, we wanted to talk about the merits of the fund balance policy. Let's talk about the merits. Before we get into the details of everything else that happens after that, let's talk about that. I think everybody's interest is to replenish. I don't think there's anybody here that doesn't want to replenish our fund balance. We don't want ever another control board telling us and restricting us when we can do it ourselves. Right. through a fund balance policy. We don't need a control board telling us and restricting us, you can't do this, you can't do that. We should do it for ourselves and have a policy where we can restrict ourselves. Certainly, it's gonna take years to get to where we want to get to. And that is where we're at right now. Let's have that conversation. How long does it take? It's not gonna take one, two, three years. How do we refund? How do we replenish it? And how long does it take to replenish the fund balance? I believe that we all share the same interests and I just wanna commend the co-sponsors of this resolution and we're here to work with the administration, the Comptroller's Office, and we wanna make sure that going forward that we're very careful as to how we prioritize Spend money and how we save money as well. Thank you All right the motion you asked for it to be adopted but the way it was reminded the finance right send the remainder Second by council member what I Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, February 11, 2020 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service, is Tuesday, February 11, 2020 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, February 11, 2020 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development is Tuesday, February 11, 2020 at 2 p.m. All right. I believe there was an item you wanted to revisit? Councilman Scanlon? Motion to revisit item number 79. Okay. All right, second by council member Beard. Item 79. All right. Before us. In the resolved portion of the resolution, it calls for the Office of Permits and Inspections to extend the grace period. It wouldn't be, I don't think it would be permits and inspections, I think it would be traffic violations. So I just wanted to. So if we change it, we'll put, since we're not positive, the appropriate department. Is that working? Yes. It wouldn't be permits and inspections. Okay. Okay. Good catch. Friday people be getting tickets, you're right. Good job. So let's revisit that item and vote on the amendment, which will be amended to, say, the appropriate department. So motion to revisit item 79 second by customer what extending the warning period for school speed zones We ask that be amended to reflect that it should be sent to the appropriate department Second by councilmember what and the motion stands. All right, the council members any announcements 235 Councilmember Wingo, you know, I would just like to invite the entire city of Buffalo to to the mastin district stakeholders meeting which is saturday at 8 30 in the morning we feed you a nice hot breakfast brian bowman came by and got a nice hot breakfast he came one way and he never left the same so i promise you if you come to master's district and partake in the fellowship and the food and the fun that we have I promise who you leave informed inspired and I promise who you leave invigorated so come on to the mass and district signal oh it is at 877 East Delavan at the Delavan Grider Center please come on and have a great time with us in the mass and district Thank You mr. chair councilmember Bowman did you did you eat It was delicious, yes. Of course you're going to say that. You did a great job. I want to invite the residents of the University District and any district that affects Bailey to our Bailey Streetscape Committee Meeting. It's going to take place Thursday, February 13th at 530 at 995 Kensington. So please, if you are interested in Bailey and what it's going to look like, come out and join us. Any food? No food. No food. I mean, I guess we're going to Councilmember Wingo's meeting then. Councilmember Wingo? Yes, I forgot to give everyone the date for this extravagant meeting, which is going to be this Saturday, February the 8th. at 8.30 in the morning. So that's Friday, Saturday, February the 8th at 8.30 in the morning at 877 East Delavan. We are the only district that feeds you a hot breakfast on the second Saturday of every month. I just want to make sure I put that in there. If I had an appropriate word, I think I was a little shade. I think. I'm not sure. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Wingo.