One. Roll. President Pro Tem Bowman. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Majority Leader Houghton Pope. Present. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wyeth. Here. Quorum, we have quorum. Please stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. Invisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, I'd ask that you please stay standing as we welcome to the floor, welcome back to the floor today our guest for today's invocation, Pastor Art Hall. I'd like to thank you, can you all hear me? I would like to start with a scripture first. It does feel good to be back and in the chamber, so Our scripture reading before we get to our prayer is Ephesians chapter 1. I want to start at verse 16 and read three verses. It says, I never stop praying and giving thanks for you as I remember you in my prayers. I pray that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, would give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened so that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what is the wealth of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the mighty work of his strength. The Apostle Paul did not delight in his self. He delighted and he prayed for those who had care over the community. And as we go before the throne and as we pray today, we want to pray for our leaders and everyone who has a part in developing our community and our great city. And Father, we thank you for this opportunity and this time that we are gathered in this space, that we may be able to seek you in all that we do. Bless the hands of these, your great leaders, those who have been selected to represent their various geographies. Give them a spirit of wisdom and revelation that they may function with clarity, with power, with wisdom, that we seek not our own understanding, but acknowledge you in all our ways and look for you to direct our paths. Thank you for their understanding and their heart for the people. Ask and pray that you bless each and every geography here, bless each and every organization, those who are in leaders, and those who are continuing to serve our communities for the years that they have. Let this meeting be a meeting full of grace, peace, and collaboration, that we may seek not only the well-being of our city, but those who serve in it. We thank you and we bless you. And in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Thank you, Pastor Hall. Thank you for being here. Council members in memoriams. Council member going back. Thank you Mr. President. Estelle Gerbacky, long time Riverside resident, passed away. She was I think 92 or 93 years old. The mom of John Gerbacky, he's one of the union officials with the- also the mom of Judy McCabe that works downstairs on the first floor. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family, her friends, her Riverside friends, and her All Saints Parish family. Council Member Buhlman. Thank you, Council President. In the Lovesroy District, we lost two members of our Schiller Park community, Ms. Donna May Favors and Margaret Williams. They actually both lived on Floss, coincidentally, and they were members of a very strong block club, Floss, Freund, Rogers, and Weber Block Club. And they were great members of the Lovesroy District. Great advocates for their community. They wanted better a better quality of life for their street and for their community and they made Definite impact so they will be sorely missed. Thank you I would ask that we keep in our thoughts the family of Mike Shuda who passed away this past week Mike was a 21 year veteran of the Buffalo Police Department proud son of the old first ward and raised his family in South Buffalo Mike's wife Terry is a member of the Buffalo School Board and And I ask that we please keep in our thoughts his daughter Katie, their son-in-law John, son Michael, and their grandchildren Joey and Willow. I'd also ask that we keep in our thoughts the family of Pamela Maglietto, who is the mother of Jesse Maglietto-Smith, the deputy chief of staff for the mayor's administration, and the mother-in-law of the late Tom Smith. I would also ask that we keep in our thoughts the family of Deborah Murdy, who is the mother of Burt Murdy, Director of Parks for the City of Buffalo, and ask that we keep in our thoughts the family of Peter Gonzalez, who is the father-in-law of our Council Chief of Staff, Jim Montour. Thank you. Also, since our last meeting, we lost three members of our military in a drone attack in Jordan, and I'd like to make sure we acknowledge their ultimate sacrifice. Sergeant William Jerome Rivers at the age of 46, Specialist Kennedy Ladon Sanders at the age of 24, and Specialist Brianna Alexandria Moffett at the age of 23. For those who are mentioned here today and anyone else we might be keeping in our hearts, I ask that we please take a moment of silence. We have several presentations today and I'd like to get them started. As we know, it is Black History Month and to start the presentations today, we are honored to have with us and I would ask to come forward, Drea Diner to sing Lift Every Voice, which for those of you who might not know who are watching at home is the Black National Anthem. Now I ask that everyone please rise. Lift every voice and sing till earth and heaven ring. Ring with the harmonies of liberty. And let our rejoicing ring. Rise high as the living skies. Let it resound loud as the rolling sea. Sing a song full of the faith that the dark past has taught. us and sing a song full of the hope that the present has brought. Facing the rising sun, by the day he comes, let us march on. until victory is won. Thank you very, very much. We now will have Councilmember Wyatt, who has a presentation as well. I want to ask Ms. Cobb to come down, please. You know, searching through Facebook, you can see some good things. And I saw a post about Ms. Cobb and her extraordinary efforts as an educator at the Westminster Charter School. And I know when I put my post out, so many people responded. Even someone from my staff talked about their relationship with you and your responsibility or your experience as an educator. And during Black History Month, you are a part of black history. Because I know that me going to a couple of schools, there were teachers that I remembered that always poured into me. And I hear from your students, you pour into them. I saw the picture and I said, that is the picture of the ultimate educator. That heart is not about the dollar, but about what we can pour in our children because those seeds come back to us. So on this day, I want to read this short thing. And I want to thank all those from Westminster Charter School who has come to support you. You got a whole group of folks. But February marks the observation of Black History Month, a time to celebrate the rich heritage contributions of African Americans like Ms. Cobb to our nation's history and culture. Within our community, we recognize and honor Ms. Cobb, a remarkable educator, dedicated staff member at Westminster Charter School, whose commitment to excellence has spanned an impressive 45 years. Mrs. Cobb has been a guiding force in shaping the minds of countless students, instilling in them a love for learning, compassion for others, and a sense of pride in the heritage. And whereas Ms. Cobb and her unwavering dedication, passion, and tireless service have not only enriched the lives of generations of students, but have also made her a cherished colleague and friend to all who have ever have the privilege to know her. So now therefore let it be proclaimed that by the City of Buffalo Common Council on behalf of all of its citizens, that we hereby honor and commend Mrs. Cobb for outstanding contributions to our community and express our deepest gratitude for 45 years of service at Westminster Charter School. Congratulations. You sure can. Good afternoon. I'm Maddie Cobb. I started at West Minister Community Charter School in 1979, and some of my colleagues said, boy, that's a long time. And some of the young ones say, I'm not even that old. And they say, how do you do it? I say, you do what you like, you do what you want. And so I enjoy walking in all those kids' footsteps. inspiring and motivating them to be the best they can. So it was easy for me to do those 45 years because I see some of the fruit of my labor when I see the kids, when I meet them outside in the neighborhood, they're happy to see me. We had an incident where we went to a kid house that wasn't coming to school. so we knocked on the door they said, Mom, it's Ms. Cobb, it's Ms. Cobb at the door. So we went in, and at that time, the West Minister wasn't the West Minister then, it was School 68 under the supervision of Dr. Yvonne Minor-Reagan, who was hired by the M&T Bank, to reform the school. So we had a hard time, but we went and we bought clothes and the kids came to school for the whole week. Next week we didn't see them, so we went back again and so this time we took the police with us, right? So we told the lady, you see if the kids don't come to school, my husband, the detective, said we're going to have to lock you up. We don't want to call CPS on you because sometimes they destroy a family rather than bring them together. So after that the kids came to school and M.T. Bank decided with Dr. Reagan that they would buy uniforms. And that's what happened. The whole school got uniforms. So our school got back on the map. The scores went up and attendance went up. So like I say, I was happy to be there for those 45 years, walking in the footsteps of those kids, motivating them. As long as I can, I did it. Not only did it inspire the kids, but it also helped me. Thank you. Next we have a presentation from Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you President Scanlon. So you just heard a beautiful rendition of the Black National Anthem by Ms. Dreya Dinnor. And of course we couldn't just let you come here without giving you an honor for all of your musical gifts that you give to the city of Buffalo and beyond. So please come up. We have a proclamation for you. from this common council to honor you for this Black History Month. And I won't read it, but I will read a piece of it. Let it be resolved that the City of Buffalo Common Council recognizes and celebrates Drea Deneur for her outstanding contributions to the arts, activism, and community service, and express our gratitude for her tireless efforts to uplift, inspire, and empower others. Thank you, Drea. I'm going to take a picture. I have one more proclamation for an organization but specifically one person who's on my favorite humans list, Pastor George Nicholas with the Buffalo Center for Health Equity. Please come down. And I will read just another portion of this one. Let it be proclaimed by the City of Buffalo Common Council on this occasion of Black History Month that we commend and honor the Buffalo Center for Health Equity for its unwavering commitment to advancing health equity and improving the well-being of all residents in Western New York. Thank you, Pastor Nicholas. We're going to take a picture. We're going to take a picture. Yeah, you got to hold that now. I'm going to pass the mic to the students. OK. Oh, they said open it up. They want to see it. They want to see it now. There we go. You got it? Yeah, we got it. All right. We got it together. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. You can. Yes, please. Thank you so much, Council President and the rest of the members of the Buffalo Common Council. And it's so exciting to see the diversity on the council that we have now, two women that are serving this community on the council. We are so grateful for that. I want to just say first thank you to the team. I get my name on it, but there's our team of the Buffalo Center for Health Equity who work so tirelessly to make sure that we can eradicate all the root causes of the social determinants of health that are causing some of the worst health outcomes in America right here in the city of Buffalo. Our goal, and one of the things you'll hear me talk about a lot over the next year or two, we're going to try to do four things in this city. One, within our community, if we can bring every child up to grade level in their reading and their mathematics, If we can make sure that every home is up to code and that people are living in safe, quality, affordable housing. And if we can make sure that every person who is working or does not have a job is working at their highest capacity so they can earn as much money as they can. And then the fourth thing, making sure that every resident has access to primary care. If we can do those four things, and we can do these four things, and we will do these four things. That we know that we will change the health outcomes in this community and that your location and your ethnicity will not be the determining factor of your health outcomes. So we're ready to work with you on this and I want to dedicate this award to my mother who just recently passed, Sophia Nicholas, so I'm so grateful for the things that she gave to me so that I can stand here today. God bless you, thank you. Well, I invite you all to stay for the meeting. You are by no means obligated to stay. So it's up to you if you want to, but council members on a motion by Mrs. Leah Halton-Pope, seconded by Mr. Nowakowski, the minutes of the stated meeting held on January 23rd, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the late files. Clerk, please from the top. Item number one, 240, 242, 246, Townsend, DDA extension. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number two, amend the report itself at 13 Morley. Motion to send items to, I'm sorry Mr. President, I'll just wait for a moment. Motion to send items two through five to Community Development. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number six, resend the sale of 120 Sherman. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number seven, cash flow report for December 2023. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number eight, Certificate of Necessity, DPW Engineering. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number nine, appoint principal ERP, financial operations officer. Motion to send civil service. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number ten, proposed agreement with TruePoint Solutions for online building permit and electronic plan review. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 11, change order number 1, Buffalo Zoo Entry Site Improvements. Motion to send items number 11 through 17, oh, to approve items 11 through 17. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 18, appoint police officers. Motion to send items 18 and 19 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 20, retirement incentive program for injured members. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 21, Contract City of Buffalo and Gitter Dunn, a Western New York demolition for 1001 East Ferry. Motion to approve items 21 through 23. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 24, restaurant dance license 3167 Bailey Avenue. Motion to receive without rec. What's that? Item 24, you said? Yes. To receive without rec? Oh, we commit. We commit? Yep. Thank you. Motion to send to legislation, seconded by Council Member Gombach. Item number 25, Restaurant Dance License 395 Main Street. Motion to send a rec. Ledge. Seconded by President Pro Tempoma. Item number 26, restaurant dance license 622 Main Street. Motion to approve items 26 through 28. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 29, tire handler license 1180 Abbott Road. Motion to send items 29 and 30 to ledge. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 31, used car dealer 2105 Fillmore. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item number 32, used car dealer, 15 Scalin North. Motion to approve items 31 and 32. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 33, second quarter gap 2023-2024. Motion to send items 33 and 34 to finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 35, G-Techno contract extension. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Board of Education, item number 36, Resolution on Allocation of Entrance Earned on District Reserve Balances. Seconded. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number 37, Liquor License Notice. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item number 38, position allocation maintenance for personnel assistant. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 39, notices of appointment for various council exempt positions. Motion to adopt items 39 and 40. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 41, Lowe's to New York State, Legislature regarding flavor and menthol ban. Motion to send a ledge. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 42, Petition Special Use 1363 Delaware. Motion to send items 42 through 45 to ledge and city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Submission with civil service, item number one, appointment for board of Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority. Motion to approve items one, two, and three, and four. Seconded by Council Member Gormack. Item number five, notice of appointment for labor two. Motion to receive and file five through. Including 13. Second by Council Member Rivera. Item number 14, appointing our legislative assistant to. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Finance, item number 15, Western New York Medical Scholarship Fund. Motion is to receive and file items 15 through and including 23. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Community Development, item number 24, 23, 25, 27, 29, A Street and 2224-3032B Street, designated developer. Motion to approve items 24, 25, and 26. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 27, Transportation Equity Project Report. Motion to receive and file items 27 through and including 48. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 49, calling for the installation of the AED on city hall floors. This item is open. The council member from Lovejoy wanted to speak on it. Council Member Bollman. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just wanted to give an update. This is an item I filed after the DeMar Hamlin incident with the Buffalo Bills and started looking around at City Hall and some of our city owned buildings and advocated for more AEDs. I'm happy to announce that the administration is working and there will be more AEDs on the floors in City Hall. Also at some of our city senior centers, community centers, and our warming shelters as well. I thought that was very important, but I would like to recommit this on the fact that I just want to ensure another part of this was to make sure that there was training so that we can have the AEDs, but we have to know how to use them and be able to save a life, so thank you very much. Okay, motion to recommit. Seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Item number 50, amend Department of Public Works Parks and Street Snow Removal Plan. Motion to receive and file items 50 through and including 96. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Legislation item number 97, special use 1425 hurdle. Motion to approve items 97 through 103 and 103 with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 104, food store license 966 East Ferry. Motion to deny items 104 through 109. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 110, ordinance amendment for chapter 380, short term rental housing. Motion to receive and file items 110 through 136. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Education, item number 137, boarded at resolution of school safe zones. Motion to receive and file items 137 through 148. Seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Resolutions, item number 46, updating the location of the trailblazing sign for Brunette B Widman Bay. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number 47, continuation of efforts for historic landmarks and districts. Motion to adopt and the remaining of two led. Seconded by Council Member Ferrellito. Item number 48, evaluation and continuation of body cam policy implementation. Motion to adopt the resolves and send the remainder to police oversight. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 49, follow up on minor site plan review in city charter. Motion to adopt resolves and the rest to ledge. Seconded by Council Member Glumbach. Item number 50, progress and future directions of fruit-built green space development plan. Motion to adopt resolvance and the remainder to community development. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 51, progress update on inclusionary zoning ordinance for affordable housing. Motion to adopt the resolvance and the remainder to . Seconded by President Pro Tempore. Item number 52, review and update on Buffalo Police Department interaction with bill enforcement agencies. Motion to adopt the resolves and send the remainder to police oversight. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 53, status update and further action on Ellicott Townhouse Association management concerns. Motion to adopt the resolves and send the remainder to community development. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 54, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve items 54 through and including 58. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 59, call for FEMA to expand public assistance for snow emergencies. Motion to adopt items 59 through 61. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck, colleagues, I just want to thank you for your support on item number 59, the call for FEMA to expand public assistance for snow emergencies. As we all know, in the past 14 months alone, we've had three debilitating snow events here in the city of Buffalo. And while we can anticipate that they're going to continue to come and we can expect for them to come, I don't think it's realistic that we can afford to handle them on our own. These three events, if we were left to our own devices, would have cost the city tens of millions of dollars. And like I said, we can prepare for them financially, we can prepare for them operationally. But when they get to that scale or that magnitude of these past three events, it's unrealistic for the city of Buffalo to shoulder that entire financial burden. You see other parts of the country where natural disasters like hurricanes and tornadoes and floods and earthquakes all over the country and the first thing you tend to hear is about these natural disasters is FEMA coming in with federal relief. And it's time for when we start to see these events taking place here in Buffalo that we hear the same kind of response. It's just at this point it's unsustainable for the city of Buffalo to shoulder that entire financial burden. So we're asking for FEMA to lower that threshold to qualify for that federal relief. And not just to lower that threshold, to make sure that when we do qualify for it, the funds are coming as quickly as possible. I know we're waiting for funds from previous snow events and it's time for these events to be treated like other natural disasters across the country. So again, thank you for your support on that. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. And with the sponsor's permission, I'd like to add myself as a sponsor to this because snow events are public emergencies. So to be able to direct this to the appropriate agency for our municipality is appropriate. And I really do think not only qualifies, but also opens up to resources that other communities see as well. Thank you. Council Member Glombeck. I'd like to be added as well. Okay. Okay, Council Member Everhart and Majority Leader Poulton-Polk and Council Member Rivera. I'm on there. President Pro Temp's on there, Mr. Farrelletto and Mr. White as well. So across the board we're asking for additional help and in a quicker manner. Item number 62, implementing the BFSA's recommended vacancy control measures. Motion to open for discussion. Thank you. I just had a couple of points I wanted to make. First of all, I want to thank the Council Member Wyatt for filing this. I think it's very important that when The BFSA is holding their meetings that we're paying attention and not just that we're listening, paying attention, but that we're taking some action at times and actually listening to them and moving forward. They talked about a potential $5 to $20 million gap as a result of certain financial situations in the city. And I love the fact that they are requiring the city to provide them a A comprehensive gap plan by May 1st along with the operational budget to deal with the four year plan. When it comes to the results within the resolution, I just had a couple of questions when it talks about vacancy control measures and getting into more of the specifics of what those are. As well as there's a line talking about administrative control over hiring process. I don't, I want to make sure we're not, we are the legislative branch, I want to make sure we're not stepping over into the administrative side of things. So I had a question to see if whether we could send this to committee and have the BFSA come in and talk about those more specifics that they want to lay out that we would adopt the resolution. Therefore saying that we support them, I would just like to see them laid out specifically before we before I would be comfortable voting to adopt it in support of it. So I hear from the sponsor. Thank you, Mr. President. And I understand people's reluctancy to do this, but Again, there's been reluctancy throughout this administration as far as making the right decisions for what we need to do to survive. 2024 is coming very quickly. I mean, we're in 2024, but the end of the year, we have some major decisions to make. And I know this upcoming budget is gonna be one of those things. And I think that what the BFA say is right. Even though I have questions with it, I understand it's a first step. And this is just the first step. I don't think that we would be supporting anything that would tender us from hiring additional snowplow drivers and those type things. So I just think it's important for us to put this on the table since the BFSA brought this to us. And they said, hey, this is where we're going. They're going to come to committee and they're going to explain it further. But I don't think there's anything that we should be concerned about that we're going to subvert the the authority of the administration to do their job. No one is trying to do anything like that, but we do have to get on the right track to begin looking at how do we get our fiscal house in order. I know the mayor has gone to the state, has gone looking for more money, but I understand the state has their own fiscal issues. And so again, I think we have to control what we can control. I wish we could have a, you know, we know Kathy Hochul, our governor, is from Buffalo, but to say that she can overturn or move on something that is not even in the budget for us to get additional money. That's a question mark. But I think that for us to adopt it is the right thing to do. We've been fighting this battle for a long time. It's a first step. It's not a, I don't think it's a major step, but it's definitely a first step in concert with the BFSA, which I think is a responsible thing to do. I disagree with some of the things that they put forth, but at least this is a first step. And I think that we should move on this to still putting the. Impetus on the administration to come up with a plan by the May 1st date so that we can have something to look at to see how do we maneuver through. This situation that we're going through, even as far as the school board, they're asking for money from the interest. Which quite honestly, I don't see a problem with, because it was their money, but at the end of the day, we have to look at how do we do these things? We're talking about increasing taxes, fees and all those other things. I think that the first bite of the apple has to be for us to put something forward to say, if we're going to do these, these are the things that we're doing so that we can make it sustainable. That's my point. Thank you. Council Member Bulma. Thank you, Mr. President. And I had a good talk with Council Member Wyatt, who is the sponsor of this. And I completely agree with the fact that we have to Very cognizant and scrutinize every position that we're hiring moving forward, especially with the budget issues looming. I do not deny that. But I do want to be careful that, you know, with the language and we're, I want to make sure if we're looking at, say, hiring freeze or vacancy control measures. We're clearly defining what is an essential employee and making sure that departments have input. I would love to hear more from the BS BFSA also revenue generating positions are extremely important. I wouldn't want to in any way impact those. So I would just like to have a little greater discussion in committee and I am looking forward to hearing from the BFSA on this. So thank you very much. Council member Rivera. Council President. I think that what we need to do is basically clean up the language, that's what you're referring to, to make sure that it reflects the intent of the control board. And I understand that and I can appreciate that. I believe that we need to file a resolution and it should reflect the intent of the control board. The control board is put there by law. It's a watchdog over our finances. We pay them to be there, to do the work that they do, although many of us disagree that we should continue to pay them. But they have made recommendations and observations in the past, and we've listened to them. And this council has taken the lead. I have to give credit to this council. Members on this common council came together to put together a reserve fund policy to replenish our reserve fund. We have millions of dollars because those council members took the initiative when there was a push back and there was some tension. But the council led because it was the right thing to do for the residents of the city of Buffalo. I am concerned about the city's finances. I think the control board is concerned as well. Majority leader brought up last week that state aid continues to be flat. Our ARP money is being spent down. We have to spend it down by 2024. The county sales tax formula has not changed. We're not going to get any additional money. More than what we're getting from the county. So we're looking at increase in taxes perhaps in this year's budget. The mayor is talking about increasing even more for snow removal. So we're going to have a property tax, we're going to perhaps have additional money for operation to make sure we can clean our streets. This council is led, and I think. And we give credit to this common council for leading. There is going to be some tension. We're not talking about, I don't want to scare people here that are watching us and say, hey, we're going to get rid of police, and we're going to get rid of firemen, and we're going to get rid of public works. What we're doing is listening to the control board who kind of softened it up a little bit. First they said a hiring freeze, then they said a soft freeze, then they said a non-essential, And so we want clarification from them, and I think it's fair to get clarification from them. Tell us exactly what it is, because this council has to make decisions, and we need to know exactly where it is we're going, but Like the reserve fund where we took the initiative We need to take the initiative as well And I think this common council has done that and I give credit to the full council for doing that I don't like council members. She why I think the intent is absolutely a hundred percent If we could clean up the language and refile it have the control board come in and explain to us exactly what the intent is I would be happy with that council member no Koski. Thank you. Mr. President. I would also like to just Just reiterate what councilman Rivera said I think that taking this language and then also taking what the control board will have to say Next week during committee and what they recommend I think we should formalize in a resolution to be put forth before this body and I think that another thing that councilman Rivera brings up is a good point is no one wants to be an alarmist we just want to be prudent and we want to be able to project what is actually going to happen moving forward and And I have had great conversations with members of the control board and I too get peeved that the city has to pay for their existence. And I also make the practical move that we have a lot of vacant space in the hallways of City Hall and offices and maybe we shouldn't be paying for offices off campus when we are going to need them on campus I mean if we're really going to look and a measure to be prudent and to be fiscally responsible we have to look at the Apple and every way and I think that moving forward this council has led on these matters and I think projecting them and articulating them in a very sensical way is really responsible thank you mr. president Majority Leader Halton-Polk. Thank you, Mr. President. I too agree that it's important that we communicate with the public effectively. And I think when the BFSA was here, I think there was a little confusion because of the back and forth. What was in writing versus what was said. I commend the sponsor for bringing this to our attention in writing. I just want a little bit of clarity. And so by having them come back in, putting it on the record, I think open communication is really important making sure that our constituents are very clear about what they're saying And what the needs are and projecting? appropriately what At least what we're projecting the budget concerns could be and what that freeze versus vacancy control would be I think it's important This is part of our job. It's our fiduciary Responsibility and so I would and I would look forward to having an open dialogue For the sake of the constituents of the city of Buffalo. I think that's our job. And so I'd hope we'd have that Thanks. Yeah again, as I said earlier, I completely agree with I the sponsor who's calling out the fact that we need to look at these vacancy control measures and other steps. But just prior to attaching my name to an adoption of steps being taken or I would just like to see them laid out exactly what it is that they're talking about, then more specificity. Motion to send a fine. A motion to close the discussion. A motion to send a finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. There's nothing. Excuse me, why are we sending it to finance? Because it's fiscal in nature? It's civil service. But it's- No, there's, so we're sending it to finance because you're talking about budget and vacancy controls. That's fine, yeah. And if there's something that comes up to conversation next week where there's civil service specific, we can do something with that. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, February 13th, 945 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, February 13th, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, February 13th, 2024 at 1 PM. A committee on community development will be Tuesday, February 13th, 2024 at 2 PM. Council members, any announcements for districts? Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you, Council President. February is a busy month in the Madison District, so we have a number of events going on. So I want to make sure that our residents are aware. Just an FYI, we are doing a field trip this coming Friday with fifth and sixth graders from the Charter School of Inquiry. They will come in and do a tour of the building and we will have lunch. And if any of my colleagues are available at 10 AM on Friday, you are welcome to come and hang out with some fifth and sixth graders. I'm sure they would love that. On 210, the Mastin District monthly breakfast is back at the Delavan-Grider Community Center from 10 AM to 1 PM. We will also be doing a food store renewal meeting. We will be doing two of them on 212 and 220, also at the Delavan-Grider Community Center. On February 15th, myself along with Senator Kennedy will be hosting our annual Heart Health Expo over at East High School and that will take place from 5.30 to 8.30. On February 22nd, Zanetta and Dyer's Book Club, in partnership with the Buffalo Bills, will be hosting a read-a-thon with local Black authors in honor of Black History Month from 5 to 8 p.m. at the Hamlin Park School. And we will also be hosting a, on 229, we will be hosting a 501c3 informational session at the Delavan Grider Community Center from 6 to 7. All of those things will be posted on the Madison District website as well as our social media. Thank you. Is that it? That's it. Thank you. Mr. President, the Ellicott District has a stakeholders meeting on Saturday at 10 AM at the Roswell Park in the Gaylord Cary Community Room at 10 AM. And if there is no other housekeeping, motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Glenbacher.