Council Member Farrelletto? Here. Council Member Fontana? Present. Council Member Francik? Here. Council Member Golombek? Here. Council President Krishan? Attee. Council Member Rivera? Present. Council Member Scanlon? Present. Council Member Wingo? Happy Birthday to Christine Wingo. Council Member Wyatt? Here. We stand for the pledge.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. We are joined by the Council of Chaplains as we remain standing for our invocation.
 And it's so wonderful to have our guest, Piet Heisenberg. It fits well with the story because today is a special day for Devin May. We leave Thursday for our ministry trip to Liberia, West Africa, and we're gone the rest of the month.
 The scripture is interesting because it talks to the next generation about generational opportunities. He decreed statues for Jacob and established the law in Israel, which he commanded our forefathers to teach their children. So the next generation would know them, even the children yet to be born, and they in turn would teach their children.
 The scripture gives the essence of what it is that we pass on. If everything you leave on to the next generation can be written down and read by a lawyer in a will, we failed. Psalm 78 has a much higher bar of what we need to pass on. And it talks about the community and how we pass that on generation to generation.
 As some of you know from our last time together, we're going to the land where Debbie's great-grandfather went as a pioneer missionary and died and is buried in Liberia, West Africa in December 1913. In the obituary that was written to him in early 1914, it says these few words. It says,
 It's with deep sorrow that we announce to the world the passing away from this life of Brother Daniel Ory, a man who's well known in the Pentecostal work on four continents and who yielded up his life while ministering in West Africa on the fifth continent. Brother Ory was taken down with fever and after a short illness, left this world to be with Christ on December 4th, 1913.
 Amazingly enough, included with that obituary is the last letter he wrote. Mr. Fronczak, this is a historic thing. His last letter just two weeks before he died. And in the letter he talks about going to mission station after mission station in West Africa, meeting missionaries and seeing the graves of those who died. Because so many died in that era. So Deb and I are going.
 We expect, unlike your great-grandfather, to come back. That's our plan. Not to be buried there, but actually to come back and be able to tell the stories of the good things that have happened while we were away. Let me encourage you that not only are we going for a generational opportunity, but that you, each of you leaders, think about how you're impacting the next generation. What are you stewarding? How are you doing it? How are you making their legacy richer by the lives you're living and the choices you're making? Let's pray.
 Father, I thank you that this week is special for Deb and me and for lots of people associated with us. Thank you, Lord, that a door has opened and we stepped through it. But as Deb has reminded me, the baton that we take into our hand has the blood, sweat, and tears of previous generations.
 Lord, I pray right now that for everyone here, every adult especially, we'd be reflecting on the importance of generational baton passing. What are we doing? What choices are we making? How are we making the next generation better in Buffalo? How are we paving the way and preparing the way for them? Let there be a generational blessing from the leaders of this city and especially the leaders of this council as we gather together today. We invite your divine presence in Christ's name. Amen.
 Thank you, Chaplain. Council Member's memorials. Council Member Fontana and welcome back. Thank you very much everybody and thanks to my colleagues for all your support. I appreciate that. Excuse me from the meetings. I appreciate it. A very good leader in our community, Mr. Bob Deezer passed away. Bob was the
 Supervisor of the town of Lancaster, he's a council member on the town board of Lancaster. I got to know him very well in the year 2000 when I was out in Lancaster and he helped me win that town. And he's just a great man, good friend of Nick Bonifacio here and he was a real leader with youth. He cared about youth, he cared about the community and he was part of the public voice of Mitchell Boys Club on the west side.
 Migrated out to Lancaster where he shared his love for children and youth out there. And served mightily as their supervisor. Bob passed away at the age of 79. I'll miss him, Nick will miss him, and so will all of western New York. He served our state also. He was part of a state port, traveled to Albany. Really just a terrific leader in this community.
 Thank you. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you Mr. Chair. I just want to send my condolences to a family member, actually Deborah Osborne, who you eulogized last Friday, passed recently to cancer. Just praying for her daughter, Yageta, son Paul and Lance, and also her son-in-law, Cardell, who works for the city and does our technology. Just praying for the family. Thank you. We welcome you back also after a successful surgery. Council Member Golomba.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Evelyn Horvath passed away towards the end of last month. She will be sorely, sorely missed by her family. Her children grew up in the Riverside area. I went to school with many of them. She was an immigrant to the United States, a Lebanese. Her husband was a Palestinian.
 Hungarian. They met soon after the 1956 Hungarian Revolution. They came to the United States, to Buffalo, and they added to the beautiful fabric of the city of Buffalo. We've also lost Anthony Fiamara, who is the father of Melissa Holden that lives over by the Peace Bridge, old friends of the family.
 We also have Daniel Burns. And actually these two that passed away are sad for the history of the Black Rock Riverside neighborhood. Dan Burns just shut down within the past year or so the Stephan Burns Funeral Home, and he and his wife moved out of Buffalo to be closer to families. Mr. Burns passed away and he was a font of knowledge for Black Rock, the historic Black Rock neighborhood.
 I would ride by in the bike or the car and I would see him out with his big fluffy dog and you could stop and talk to him. And he would just give you stories of the neighborhood. Stephen Burns' funeral home was a mixed funeral home. And what I mean by that is that the Burns side of the funeral home served the Irish Roman Catholics from St. John the Baptist.
 The Stephan part of the funeral home served the German Roman Catholics from St. Francis Xavier. And it was about two blocks from either church. So it's a little bit of that history in the neighborhood where the Irish and the German Catholics didn't always get along with one another, but they did at the funeral home where they were able to work together. Also, my favorite neighbor growing up in the Riverside neighborhood was Marie Costello, a maiden named Dellinger.
 She is probably the person, she's 91 years old, she's been living with her family in New Jersey, and she is probably the person that turned me on to local history. Because she would tell me stories since I was a little kid. They lived right down the street from us and she would talk about growing up in the
 old historic Black Rock neighborhood and growing up in Riverside and about the different ethnic groups and the different issues that had taken place, you know, since she was a kid in the late 1920s. Mrs. Costello is going to be very, very sorely missed by her children and grandchildren, many of whom are still in the Buffalo area. Thank you, Mr. Golombet. Mr. Scanlon. Thank you. I would ask that we please keep the family of Mark Cuthbert.
 and our thoughts and in our prayers, Mark, with a South Buffalo native and a fellow St. Thomas Apprentice and Bishop Tynan alumnus. He's going to be sorely missed, especially his incredible sense of humor is going to be missed by his family and in particular his children. So I ask that we please keep the family and the soul, Mark. Thank you. Any other council members?
 Of course, we always close by recognizing those persons who have given their lives since our last meeting for the freedom of our nation and other nations. But also, unfortunately, they also acknowledge the multiple people who other people took their lives in our city. We call that a homicide and it's unfortunate that we're seeing so many.
 On last week, I buried a 16-year-old, and on the way to the funeral, I got a call, buried this Thursday, another person, the latest homicide. So we ask prayers for their family and for our city. We pause for a moment of silence. You may be seated. Before getting on with the agenda, we have...
 Speaking of generations, we have two schools here. I won't call them in the order of whoever's best or whatever is the initial of your school, but in observance of Black History Month, we are going to ask that the performing arts choir will come at this time, and then after they perform, we're going to ask that they would stay to witness also
 the Lafayette School and the award that will be given to them. Thank you, Performing Arts, for being here. This is Buffalo's own. They sing all over the place. I don't know if they have a tutor that goes with them or whatever, but they're real famous all over this city. And whenever they're asked if they can come, they do. So I do want to thank their principal also for allowing them to be with us today.
 And sir, if you'll introduce yourself and let you be. My name is George Davis. I'm a social academy student at the State University. My residence is on the left side of the room. Our first speech will be until I get this talk. I'm a former college student. You get a little bit of a hard time.
 This version that we wanted, it features a sound we call the when you take a jazz solo and you create words to it. The words come from the Japanese. So...
 I feel the way I live away right from the start
 You have me, you have me, you have me, you have me What do you know? You made it so And you were not so right to me Once we stop, then we'll never part In my new life No one at all will even care if I cry In my new life
 I'm walking so that I don't feel a little pride I'm going inside And all the old reasons why it was tighter than I would've seen I can't believe I haven't knew the love and all the thoughts that I had with you I think We've gotten out the dust and the black That's why we're making love after turning black
 The heavens were filled with gladness What such romance How beautiful it was tonight Each of us stood free And the sun was now a-bastard
 I'm telling you it's your present emotion I don't want it to go to waste I'm telling you it's your present emotion I don't want it to go to waste
 He shall come again. He will come again. He will come again. I'm sure he knows that it's all.
 I'm gonna use the same words I said the other day I'm gonna tell you all the truth now I'm gonna tell you all the truth now I'm gonna tell you all the truth now I'm gonna tell you all the truth now I'm gonna tell you all the truth now
 So exciting, you're a little tender, tender, tender, tender, tender, tender. You're wonderful for me, except when I saw you I was falling short. It's really good to be you. But what do you know? You really were so old. I'm ready to send it right down to the world.
 I'm gonna bless the truth, be the truth, really put up a white, be a fact, be the same type of judge. He's gonna come tell you, really come back on this hard life. Please, please, keep on my love, something nobody has much of. Please, please.
 I'll miss you.
 There goes my heart I've got some things, got me holding Like a ship without a life My father got me a phone A mess of music I can't redeem it He's got a hand in that He's got me a phone One thing's sure, one thing's sure Master, Master, hear me I'm yours till eternity
 One, two, three. From the day that we met When you showed up to say I was not dying I took all of you And all the things that I do All the things that I do
 There was no doubt No doubt I'm gonna be strong Yes, I am Yes, I am I'm gonna be strong I'm gonna be strong I'm gonna do it all in one I'm gonna make it together
 What y'all was all about Until I met you Never really knew What y'all was all about Until I met you Good shout Good shout
 I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared. I'm a little bit scared.
 I'm going to sing a song.
 I'm a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a
 Can't sleep now
 You can't sleep now You can't sleep now
 Give it to someone because you need it more Can't sleep at night Can't sleep at night
 Do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do
 And we're going to be giving each one of them, just open them up, and so we'll acknowledge everyone. Record Alexis. Come on. Jada. Jada's moved out of town, came back to Buffalo. Buffalo. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. Jada. J
 Thank you.
 Jared, my goodness. Thank you, Jared. All right. And let's see if I get the right. Did we miss you? We're missing one. No more. This is Buffalo's best, so make sure you remember. You got Buffalo News there taking pictures of you. Thank you. Unbelievable. Thank you so much. And now...
 Lafayette High. We're going to ask Council Member Revere who is lucky enough to have them in his district. Thank you very much. What a awesome experience. You get to come to City Hall. I know you're all excited. I was told by the teachers you were happy to be here. But to be able to experience what I'm going to ask Vice Principal I apologize. We apologize for the mic. Thank you.
 Abby Lott, Laura Bevan, Zena, Zena as well, Talia Rodriguez. Just all of the athletes that are involved in swimming and volleyball, so please come as well. And I just want to take a moment.
 To brag about our volleyball team, our volleyball team is 15-0. Undefeated so far. So that means they've defeated teams throughout the school district. Is that right? This week we celebrated National Girls and Women's Day throughout the country. It's the 31st day.
 And it is important to note that 40% of young women participate in organized work. That is 3 in 5 participate in sports. And research has shown that young ladies in high school participate in sports.
 develop leadership skills, academic skills, economic opportunities, higher self esteem, and better health. And so I congratulate you all for your feats in sports and in your endeavors. I want to thank the principals, the administrators of Lafayette High School. Obviously I'm a Westside booster. Very proud of you all, 15 and zero. Violence, an opportunity to recognize
 We'll say a few words on behalf of Lafayette. Muchisimas gracias. Me ha agrado estar aqui con las muchachas. I appreciate being here in the council chambers. One of the things that I have always liked was the quote from
 Pablo Freer, he says that education is a subversive force. And to me, that subversiveness is throwing off some of the stereotypes that many in the nation hold to our youth. And I would like to thank not only the coaches, but the support of the community, Mr. Aubrey Lloyd, who supported us in this endeavor. Thank you. Thank you.
 I have a certificate for you. Certificates. Hand it out to the students. Thank you so much. Thank you. Now, if we were in your assemblies, I would ask you which one is the best school, because I know you both would make a lot of noise. So why don't we just do that? What's the best school in Buffalo?
 Thank you all so much. And you all can go back to school now.
 I'll take that
 Thank you. We'll give students a few seconds to exit. That was excellent. Excellent. That was excellent. Yeah.
 There's a lost phone before everybody leaves. A Galaxy. Anybody lose a Galaxy? All right. Somebody will discover they lost it. It will be in the clerk's office. Councilmember, thank you for indulging. I think it is so important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people and our young people. I think it's important to recognize our young people
 have their youthfulness in our chambers and their accomplishments. I think it just means a lot.
 All right. We've done all of that. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on January 24, 2016 are approved. All of the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files in front of you? If there are no objections in hearing and seeing no objection, we will proceed with the entire agenda. It does not take away your right to object to the item as it comes before you if you have not had enough time to read that item. From the top.
 Item 1, reporting recommendation, Landmark and North Park, Frank's Library. Motion to send items 1 and 2 to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Filo. Item 3, Housing Development Fund. Motion to approve items 3 to 5. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 6, introduction to Unified Development Ordinance. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Fontana.
 Item 7, Certificate of Necessity Transfer of Funds. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 8, File Up to the Audit Report on Internal Controls of Revenue at the Bureau of Fire Prevention. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 9, Interfund Loan City Court. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 10, Appoint Principal Accountant.
 Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. From the Council. President of Item 11, concerns from Lodging House 296, Ellicott. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Can you tell we missed you? Saying that name. Thank you. I miss you too. It feels like my first meeting again.
 item 12 Airbnb compliance motion to send to legislation thank my cousin our wing go item 13 appoint senior assessor ocean ascend civil service say my cousin friends at work down to 14 notification cereals motion to send a CD and the my cousin over the long bit I don't think the changing contract Broadway market motion to approve items 15 through 25 my president bro Tim skin
 Item 26, report of bids at Valley Community Center. Motion to approve items 26 and 27. Second by Councilmember Freyland. Item 28, appoint electrician. Motion to send the civil service items 28 through 31. Second by Councilmember Watt. Item 31, permission to appoint intermediate increment. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Watt. Item 33, appoint detective. Motion to send the civil service items 33 through 37. Second by Councilmember Watt. Item 36.
 38, permission to purchase fire response vehicle. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item 39, appoint Senior Deputy Corporation Counselor. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 40, food store license 1076-6-6-4. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 41, lodging house license 333-Almort. Motion to send to lights items 41, 42, and 43. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 44, used car dealer license 997-6-4. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo.
 Item 45, item returned, not signed without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 45 through 48. I'm not a council member, but item 49, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt item 49 and 50. I'm President Probe-Semskine. Item 51, notice of appointment, seasonal flat. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Council Member White. Item 52, notice of appointments temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Fonsen. Miscellaneous items. Item 53, Buffalo City School District options. Find more money or make cuts. Motion to send to Education Committee. Second by Council Member Wingo. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. Chair. This was a request by Dr. Cash of the Buffalo Board of Education.
 to infuse the city with an additional $8.5 million. They are faced with some decisions that they have to make, and I don't think that it's fair for our students for them to be without the necessary resources that they need in order to have this first-class quality education. However, there's also this component that Dr. Cash has publicly professed that homeschool students are district students.
 I'm willing to fight with and for the Buffalo Board of Education, Board of Education for Buffalo Public Schools, if they should make a line item in the school's budget for home school students.
 I would personally advocate so that they can get these funds from the city if they should make the promise that they will put a line item in their budget for homeschool students. We also expect the district to come to this education meeting next week, Thursday,
 to give us their full agenda on what they need this additional $8.5 million in funds for, and also just to make their case so that the rest of the city can see that this is justified and that our students, our youth, our babies should be our first priority. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Winkle. Next item. Oh, I'm sorry, Council Member Fontana. Thank you.
 Is that item number 24? Which is revisit item 24. Sorry, my commenter, the item is in front of us. Thank you. Do we have a – oh, I apologize. Do we have a reason why $338,000 is the lowest responsible bidder when $311,000 was bid? Did they tell us that during caucus at all or anything? No, no. It wasn't –
 It wasn't asked during caucus meeting? I just caught it because normally they go in order, and I thought my eyesight was playing tricks on me, so I made it bigger. The only question we asked was, was it block grant money? It is block grant money. They need a statement of compliance, which they didn't have, but they don't need because it's block grant money. Well, yeah.
 Let's send this to finance. You want to send it to finance? Yeah, just because I don't understand. I mean, it's my district, so I don't understand why 311 is not the lowest responsible bidder when 338 is. Okay. Motion in now is to rescind the previous motion to approve. Second by Congressman Golombek. Motion is now to send to finance. Second by Congressman Fontana. Thank you. Not a problem. Back to the agenda. 154 is to jack it or redesign it. Motion is sent to CD. Second by Congressman Golombek, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. This is a letter that is addressed from me to the state criticizing the plan for the 198. I've been watching and listening for quite some time as to what the plans are for the 198, and it seems like they have one of two choices. Do nothing, and do
 or rip the band-aid off and do something that is really truly momentous for this area of the 198, especially in the North District, but especially around the Buffalo State College area. Some community groups from my neighborhood have put together a plan where they mimic something that happened in Rochester, at the University of Rochester. There was an area there that had an expressway that cut through it. It was an old rust belt type neighborhood.
 And if you drive through the University of Rochester area now, there's little shops there. There's places for college kids to go to. There's places for people from the neighborhood to go and hang out at along their waterfront. And it looks strangely like the Skagitwa to Crete.
 that is in that Black Rock Buffalo State College area. I'm very disappointed in the state for the lack of plan that they've made. If you're going to make changes with the 198, make changes that are substantive. Make changes that are going to be something that are going to be proud long term. And I know that there's a lot of people that are unhappy because they're going to be inconvenienced for three or four minutes out of their lives.
 You know, I go to the airport and I'm inconvenienced by three or four minutes out of my life. I don't care. It doesn't matter to me. To live in a first-rate city, to live in a top-notch city, I'll take the extra two, three, four minutes of commute time. If people would be able to attend meetings that we've been having in Black Rock Riverside, they would see this unbelievably gorgeous city.
 proposal that the community people from the bottom, not politicians, not bureaucrats, not engineers, but people that live in the neighborhood have...
 It's going to community development. It's also been sent to different representatives in the New York State. And I hope that with this and with Mr. Scanlon's resolution that I'm co-sponsoring with him, that we're going to be able to actually do something that instead of 50 years from now, people are going to look back and say, what were those dolts on the Common Council and in the state?
 in Albany doing back in 2016, they're going to be able to say, boy, they made some changes that, yes, maybe it was painful, but like ripping off that band-aid, a quick rip and then it's healed and it's perfect long-term. And I think that if they do plans like this at the 198, it changes not just Black Rock section of the city of Buffalo, but the entire city of Buffalo and it can continue from there. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Golombek. Mr. Franczak?
 Thank you, Mr. President. Last week I met with Attorney Alan Boeser,
 at Phillips Lytle and Mary Simpson, who's on the board of the Olmstead Parks Conservancy. And Mr. Bozer and I are around the same generation. I said, do you remember the old parkway? And, you know, I vaguely remember it before it was destroyed in the late 50s and early 60s. And he remembers it very well. And evoked, you know, what a wonderful experience it was that connected the neighborhood. So you go on the, see, I often will go on
 right by the Museum of Science on Best Street, and I'll get on all the way to Buff State, and you see what was done now. And, you know, I just dimly remember, you know, the medium that was behind it, the trees, the neighborhood that was all connected, the houses. And what they wanted, what the Olmstead group that I met with last week was saying is that, and I agreed with them because we've experienced this before, is that when you're dealing with
 Department of State Transportation officials, those are engineers. They're not necessarily thinking like neighborhoods and planning or thinking about how to solve this engineering problem. And what they recommended is an overlay and traffic circles and things of that nature that ultimately leads to the reconnecting of those neighborhoods that were torn asunder. Many years ago on this council, Councilman Thompson, Antoine Thompson was here,
 And he put a resolution saying we need to redo this conjecture.
 And even like putting a cover on it like they did in Phoenix. Phoenix, Arizona, because in Mr. Scanlon's resolution, he talks about what other cities have done, like Rochester, even in Toronto with the Gardner Expressway coming down. So he mentioned some of those things. And people thought at that time when he said that that he was out of his mind, you know, because what they did in Phoenix was cover their expressway, and they put a park land on top of it. I'm not saying we're going to do that, but what I'm saying is,
 When he was a councilman, which was maybe 10 years ago or so, people were talking about it. And I think it's time has come. We can't let the engineering bureaucrats decide what the city of Buffalo is going to look like. And I think that Mr. Scanlon's resolution, in fact, I said when I met with this group last week, I said, did you talk to Mr. Golombek? It's his district. I'm not sure if some of it's Councilman Filetos. And they said that Mr. Scanlon was putting in a resolution. So I think we're on the right page on this issue. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Anybody else on the panel? All right. Next item. Motion stands. Next item. 155, homeschool. I'm sorry, Council Member Winkle. Oh, on this next item. Okay. 155, homeschool parent. Lost two children due to administrative error. Motion sent to Education Committee. Second by Council Member Winkle. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. President.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. This item we filed because we believe that it is of importance that we seek to help our families who are seeking to get involved with alternative means of education through homeschooling.
 Somewhere along the lines, paperwork was not submitted, which resulted in trauma for a family in the city of Buffalo. This is utterly, utterly unacceptable. Now we've declared that through the Board of Education, Dr. Cash has declared that homeschool students are in fact district students. We need to ensure that this never happens again in the city of Buffalo.
 whatever the policy is, whatever the procedures are, we need to ensure that the district, the school district, follows that process with fidelity. Otherwise, we're going to have a family in crisis. Of which this, according to the reports, this family was torn apart. The young people, the third and sixth grader, who were involved with this incident, were not even sent to a family member's house.
 Once CPS, according to the reports, once CPS located this family, the mother was arrested for educational neglect, and the children were placed in foster care, not even at the next of Ken's house. This is unacceptable. This cannot happen as a father with five children in Buffalo Public Schools. Should one of my children be considered absent excessively, I would hate for them to take my child
 if I've already put forth the proper paperwork with my intent to homeschool for me to be arrested, school did whatever they're supposed to do when a child is not in school, to call CPS for there to be a breakdown of communication between the district and the school and that parent. This is, again, I cannot say it enough, utterly unacceptable. Therefore, we will be discussing this. We want to get to the bottom of it.
 We would like the district to come and discuss after we've done our fact-finding investigation, after not ours, but after a fact-finding investigation has been conducted. I'm pretty sure that that's in the works as of right now. But this really stems back to the fact that we disenfranchise our homeschool students. This should be taken very seriously. Education is a right.
 Education is a right. We are all entitled to an education. And having that entitlement, if a parent should so choose to homeschool their children, they should not have to endure all of these things because someone, somewhere, and it's not, let me repeat, it is not a reflection of the entire Board of Education. It is not.
 Someone, somewhere, I'm trying to be very careful of being accusatory, but someone, somewhere messed up. And we need to find out who that someone is. And that someone needs to face the music.
 Other than that, Mr. Chair, we'll be discussing this in the Education Committee meeting, and I hope that the, I'm sure that the Board of Education will send a representative there, and I'm sure as well Ms. Harris will be there, and I'm sure representatives will be there as well, so that we can make certain that whatever solutions are put forth, that this never happens again. Mr. Wing, I know that part of the reason that the press is here is on this item, but
 So they'll get a story. In like very short, can you tell us what happened so the people who are watching may understand your comments? Well, according to the information that we've gathered so far, Ms. Harris, the mother of two children, a sixth grader and a third grader,
 He then delivered her letters of intention to the home school, to the city of Buffalo, Board of Education. Now those documents both have a date stamp on them of December 7, 2016. According to the New York State Department of Education Student Support Services, Home Instruction, it says section 100-10.
 Section B, Part 2, parents who are determined to commence home instruction after the start of the school year or establish residence in the school district after the start of the school year shall provide written notice of their intention and educate their child at home within 14 days following.
 that happened. And then after she did that, she got the application from the district, which is an individualized home instruction plan that she has to provide. She provided that on January 18th. And her children were still not given back to her. She still, I don't know if she's seen her children yet, Mr. President. So as you can see, the
 There's a chain of events that has happened somewhere along the line. The process or the protocol was not followed through with fidelity, which resulted in crisis for this family, which resulted in traumatic events for these youth who have not seen their mother and for this mother to be separated.
 Just the agony of being separated from your child based off of someone's incompetence is utterly ridiculous. Therefore, I feel very strongly that we should come together, both the City of Buffalo and the Board of Education, to try to find whatever happens so that this never happens again to any family in the future. So whoever's fault this is ought to feel, they ought to feel guilty.
 So much remorse or grief only because a mother and the children are no longer with each other. And it's not about just one individual or about just these two children. This happened, and we need to make sure it doesn't happen again. Agreed. Thank you, sir. So that's going to be an education meeting, so if anyone wanted to speak on it, it would be on next Thursday. 16th at 530. Okay. Thursday the 16th at 530. All righty. Good work.
 That's item 156, new landlord, 85 River Rock. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fred Lotto. Item 57, community schools. Motion to send to Education Committee. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Petitions, item 58, use 532, me. Motion to send to Legislation and City Planning Board.
 Second by Councilmember White. Item 59, G&D Warehouse Relocation Options. Motion to send to CD and Strategic Planning. Second by Councilmember Montana. Committee, Civil Service. Item 1, Appoint Associate Account Clerk. Motion to approve items number 1...
 Through five. Seconded by the Majority Leader Revere. Item six, notice of requirements, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Majority Leader Revere. Finance Committee, item seven, drug asset forfeiture annual certificate report. Motion to receive and file seven and eight. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scammer. Item nine, comprehensive annual financial report. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Spillover. Correct. The, what was that, eight? What was the call on eight? Eight.
 Receiving file. Oh, we have it marked for approval. Oh, do you? Did I read it wrong? I'm sorry. Seven is receiving file and then eight is approval. Oh, yes, requesting approval. Oh, I'm sorry. I read it wrong. I got to get some cheaters. Sorry. I'm getting old. We're sending a motion on eight for receiving file. Second by Council Member Golombet. Thank you very much. Thank you. Second by Council Member Golombet. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Community Development Committee, Item 10, the letter of support for Grateful Grand Coffee.
 Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Blingo. Item 11, report of sale, 591 Linwood. Motion to approve items 11, 12, and 13. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Legislation Committee, item 14, use 765 Elmwood.
 There are no objections. Motion to approve items 14, 15, and 16. Second by the Majority Leader, review. Item 17, petition protesting chasing affinities proposed rezoning 605 and 607 floors. There are no objections. Motion to receive and file items 17, 18, and 19. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Resolutions. Item 60, transfer of funds.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fairleaf. Item 61, bond resolution, purchase of fire apparatus. Motion to send to finance. Item 61, 81. Second by Council Member Fairleaf. Item 82, regulation of mobile retail businesses. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 83, appoint marriage officer.
 motion to adapt my counselor wingo m84 has been withdrawn item 85 language access task force motion to adopt items 85 and 86. second by council member your level item 87 support for new york health act motion to send cd speaking about present pro temps and item 88 establishment of a business licensing hearing board motion is sent to ledge and my council member wyatt
 I made a nine budget and personnel amendment civil service motion to approve the council member friends I am ninety commissioner of deeds public duties motion to adopt items 90 and 91 second by president pro-chamber who has the floor yeah thank you mr. president I was worried the resolution that I filed establishing a transportation working group what number was that 92 it's coming with this okay item 92 established transportation working group
 Motion to adopt the resolve. The remainder to legislation. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank you and the rest of my colleagues here for accepting this late file. This was a time-sensitive filing. It was...
 born out of the conversations that have been taking place surrounding the Department of Transportation's inadequate response to the citizen advocacy over there on the one idea on this Cajacura. And we all know what expressways have done over the course of the past 50 years to communities throughout this country and in a lot of areas we're starting to see that trend reversed
 and some of these expressways being returned to boulevards and things of that nature. In Rochester, you've seen a one-mile stretch of the inner loop being converted to a walkable boulevard. In New York and the Bronx, the Sheridan Expressway received a $97 million Tiger Grant to return that to a boulevard.
 Right here in Niagara Falls, there was $42 million to fix two miles of the Robert Moses Parkway. So things are taking place all throughout the state. And when talking about the Skajakwa, we start thinking about other expressways throughout our city as well. So what's going on with the Skajakwa? What's going on with the Skyway? What's going on with the Kensington? All these need to be examined. We're talking about where we're going to put the newest train station. We're talking about possible extension of the light rail.
 We've been harping on NFTA to get their act together as well. So we want to take a holistic approach to transportation in the city as a whole. We don't want to start looking at one project at a time, piecemealing things, and then ultimately have not them work in synergy. So we want to put a working group together of...
 elected officials, transportation experts, people like that to come together discuss options and see what we can do moving forward. This is also I want to thank because this is going to be included in the comments for the DOT regarding the speech equity. So again it was time sensitive. So thank you all for accepting that. Absolutely and I think these last
 Years, so we've established Working groups that have worked very well when you look at the sex offender task force they mean the MWBE different things where we have someone that has a bird's-eye view and we're not simply reacting to what others tell us but actually Doing some of the research and having those discussions So I think it's very very appropriate console everybody just key in for me council member Golomba
 Thank you, Mr. President. You know, just reminding, I was listening to what Mr. Fronchick said in piggybacking on this resolution that Mr. Scanlon and I are sponsoring. In 1959, the Riverside Black Rock section of the city of Buffalo, my neighborhood, lost our access to the waterfront. And there's this great picture of a bunch of guys walking with a casket on their shoulders as pallbearers.
 And underneath it, it says, Death of Waterfront Access.
 And it wasn't the neighbors, it wasn't the residents that wanted to give up our waterfront access and that was before I was born but once again I mentioned the people that passed away today. You know I heard stories from these people about people fighting it and they said oh you can't fight Albany, it was the politicians that wanted it. Well I think that what we're trying to do here on this council and some of the other elected officials that represent western New York are trying to make up for that terrible mistake that was made. Not just on the waterfront.
 the waterfront and Black Rock and Riverside, but throughout the entire city. And as my colleagues mentioned, there does need to be a holistic approach to this. Just because you fix one little part of the city of Buffalo doesn't mean that it's going to impact or be better for everyone. We should be looking at the whole picture.
 And we should be looking at every neighborhood and how all of these different neighborhoods do have an impact on one another. So I want to commend my colleagues, and I want to thank them for the support. These items are going in front of the Community Development Committee, and I will do what I can to work to put together this small committee or large committee, however my colleagues want to do it, so that we can get –
 what the residents want, not the politicians, not the bureaucrats, but what the residents want for their communities and for their neighborhoods. Thank you. Absolutely, because even in a discussion about Delaware Park, then there's the question of what happens to traffic patterns.
 Are we going to end up with a 33 that is overburdened, and should that also then be considered of what needs to happen? So I think that this is very appropriate. Can I please be added to the resolution?
 Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you Mr. Chair. I just wanted to also congratulate my colleague on I think that's real insightful thinking to kind of look at the City of Buffalo and the transportation needs just not as one offs but really looking forward, planning and making certain that we cover every area. Because there's a lot of different needs and I know that they've been working on the 33 covering forever.
 And it seems as though that, you know, there's not been a lot of headway made. So I think this approach really kind of put a dent in making sure that we start planning out to the future. Because even with the extension for the...
 Rail, they talked about that maybe they take 10 years. So if it's 10 or 15 years, let people know that it's coming. Let people know that it's been thought about. Let people know that it hasn't been just put on the back burner and they're not paid attention to. So I think this approach is the right approach. And I'd also like to be signed on as a co-sponsor if you don't mind. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good. Council Member Berry? Thank you.
 Oh, was that Council Member Scanlon? Yeah, just I wanted to double check. Was this going to CD? CD. Okay. And then also, I mean, we have a transportation committee that is pretty dormant right now. So even if as a result of this we get that revived and we start moving on things in that direction. Whatever is desired. I'm finding.
 You okay with that? I think that's smart that we bring back up that transportation committee. And we've revised so many, whether it's police oversight. And I think what the council is showing that we want to hear from the community, not just hear from them, we want to be a part of our decision-making. And so, yes. We could put this working group together and have them report their meetings and their findings to that committee. Absolutely. So you'll oversee that and make sure it gets done. Thank you.
 Is there someone else who wants to speak? Okay. Thank you. Gentlemen, next slide. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, February 14th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on community development, Tuesday, February 14th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, February 14th, 2 p.m. Special committee committee on education, Thursday, February 16th, 530 p.m. Any announcements for districts? Council Member Wingold.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Again this Saturday, we will have our Mass and District stakeholders meet. Do we have it every Saturday? It seems like every week. Is it every Saturday? Every second Saturday, Mr. President.
 Every second Saturday of every single month of every year, we have our stakeholders meeting for Mastin. We also serve you breakfast. So if you are available at 830-877-EAST-DELAVANT at the Delavan Grider Community Center, we'll be having our stakeholders meeting.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Well, we have Councilmember Wyatt back. Let me just finish that last thing. And again, I used my, what do you call it, roll call to wish my sister happy birthday. But let me just say again, while we're on the air, happy birthday, Christine Demetria Wingo. I don't know how old she is, but even if I did, I wouldn't say it.
 So she got it twice. So she got it twice. Because, you know, some siblings just have to do that. So happy birthday. So she's on the public record of the city of Buffalo. So she's on public record. Her full government. Thank you. Council Member White. I said it to Missy and I'm not supposed to say happy birthday. I'm very, very happy. Just want to invite the University District residents to our quarterly breakfast, Saturday, February 25th.
 right at St. Lawrence Church from 9 to 12. Again, I encourage the residents, if this is your opportunity to be empowered, to hear from you, we just don't sit there and twiddle our fingers. We really talk about real issues and get things done. So I want to invite them out on the 25th Saturday from 9 to 12. I also want to invite the residents to our upcoming community meetings regarding food store license renewals. That's going to take place Thursday, March 2nd.
 at the 995 Kensington from 530 to 7, and also Monday, March 6, 2017, from 530 to 7. Myself and Councilmember Fontana will be part, along with the License and Permits Department, as well as the Police Department.
 And this is something that's been very effective over the last two years because we've given residents a voice. If there's a problem with a store, we're not just automatically renewing it. But if there's an owner that has a problem, he can let us know, too. So it's a two-way communication. I think it's worked out very well. We've had the problems that we had in the past with the deli stores, and the community has been –
 much more positive about the store so i think it's something that's been working so we look for everyone to come out and be a part of um making sure that the community runs the way they want it to be run thank you nothing else all right motion to adjourn second by council member fontana we adjourn