Roll call. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Fontana. Present. Councilmember Fransic. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Council President Pridgett. At key. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Warren. Present. Let's stand for the pledge of allegiance to the United States of America, to the freedom of the world to which it stands, one nation under the leadership of the Supreme Court. Our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. So we know what the nature of things for most of us in New York. We were there, we eat, we travel to the tennis courts, we go to the bus stops, we go to the car halls. First thing we do is we go to the studio and we're there for a few weeks and we get there. We do some of the things we get from the college, where I did, we got the master's degree and we did some of the stuff. We did some of the music ourselves, we did some of the music for the concert. I was trying to get my word in to stay home. Maybe I could take a bit of a break from our sleep. We didn't have much time left of the last, last period. I'm thinking of sleeping out. The next ghost room is blue and cold. I hang out with some of the other ghosts. The other ghosts are still there. The four of them are there. And increasingly, the progress is getting closer to the base. the city. As they represent us, the first description of the city is that it is a city of people. You know, it's a blue-bird and a golden-bird. It's a great city. It's a great city. It's a great city. It's a great city. It's a great city. It's a great city. I'm a neighbor and neighbor. I'm living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. Living in a neighborhood. We pray that the church can pass this term of being recorded in the building and what is left of the people who have been many of those who are our friends. For us, we are the present. Now I repeat, we call on the church to call on the council members. We ask that today would be a day of your presence. We invite you to work amongst us today for the good of the citizens of our city. In Christ's name, amen. Amen. Council members, any remorse? Council member Franzen. Thank you Mr. President. I'd like us to remember Dorothy Robinson, who was 25 years old, aunt of Art Robinson, who is always with us. She was related to Art Robinson. I agree. Any others, Councilmember? Councilmember Wingo. Thank you Mr. President. I would like to ask the Council in the City of Buffalo to keep in prayer the Doster Family of Walter C. Hopson. who passed away last week, Sunday. He was the owner of Hobson's Cleaning. And over several decades they have serviced the community and have done an excellent job doing that, extending their success to a lot of young people, giving them opportunities that they may not have ordinarily had. as well as guilting me and stealing me from his family's business, Brooks Cleaners. I remember when I first became council member, I walked into a house and he said, well, who are you? I said, my name is Ulysses Wingo, and... I'm running for Madison District. He said, well, you don't get your clothes cleaned here, you must not want to get elected. I said, well, actually, sir, I do, and I'll bring my shirts here from now on. I said, I'm pretty sure your family will be upset with me for leaving, but you know, I had been going to Brooks for 35 years, and I had just started going to Hobson's only a few years ago, but every time I went in there, he was out in his white, coat, it was a white top coat, and he was a doctor of dry cleaning. And what I learned about him during his services that were at St. John this past week was that he was a medic in the military. And when he opened up his business, he wanted to take on that same MO, so to speak, as the doctor. So he was a doctor of dry cleaning. He will be sorely missed. We're going to ask that the City of Buffalo continue to keep him lifted in prayer, his wife and all of his children. And his one grandbaby got up to sing. And she sung so beautifully at that service. I think she blew everyone's wigs off that day. But it was just a wonderful service, a beautiful service. And even when Mr. Hopson was on his bed of affliction, He had been given orders still, and I got the phone call to tell Wingo to get the Delavan Grider Center for his repass so that the community, his repass could still be in the community. So I did what he told me to do again, and we secured the Delavan Grider Community Center, and the family had their repass there. But if I could just ask that we all keep that family in prayer, he will be sorely missed. He provided a lot of opportunities to young people, gave a lot of young people their first jobs. So we can just keep that feminine in prayer. We thank you. Thank you. Mr. Columbus? Thank you, Mr. President. Leroy Goodermode passed away this past week, a World War II veteran, all-around good guy. He's leaving behind his wife, Norma, and a very, very large family, children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. Richard Moore passed away leaving behind his children and grandchildren. And Michael Rubell, very, very sad. Actually, in an accident was visiting his mom and fell on the ice and ultimately ended up dying from that. Horrible, horrible thing. A young man, only 60 years old, So I'm sorry for these and for all the people who have lost anybody in the past week. Thank you. Thank you. Pastor Merriweire? I just wanted to add to the prayers for Dr. Hopson. Unfortunately, I was ill and couldn't make his funeral, but he was a giant and just a very, very special man, Pastor. You know he was the first person to sponsor your radio show. And, you know, I would talk to him and he just cared so deeply about people. And then I just could not let this time pass by without saying something about this man who just cared, you know, and the young people that he brought on and they went on to college, you know. Those are the type of people that, you know, leave a legacy. It's not about their titles or their positions, but about the people they help along the way. So my prayers to Mrs. Hopson and his family. He will be sorely missed. Just a tremendous man. Mr. Hopson, Adoptive Drive Cleaning. Thank you. Thank you. Any others? We always pause for a moment of silence for those who have given their lives since our last meeting. So as we prepare to do that, I'll just quickly say that over 15 years, this guy has kept me on the air. Dr. Hobson kept us on the air when we were doing the show together. And it was by his encouragement of me going in public, speaking out in public, And so he will be missed. We pause for all of those names that have been mentioned and others that we may not even know in this chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Gentlemen, this is proclamation from all of us. And I'll come down to you all. Marty, what's with those guys bailing out? What's going on? You're following each other. But let me ask myself after all of my college, that it'll be a loss for the city to have you decided, but it'll be a gain for your family. I'm so proud of you for influencing both. I know this part. Anytime we had problems, anytime we needed a question answered, we called you. We called you. You always called my attention. You always attended the meeting. You always helped set up the meeting, whether it was ,, ,, all those difficult meetings. . You never, if there was something you couldn't do, you were not allowed to say . So you were always there for us. it's okay turns on this much deserved resolution Mr. Martin Kennedy, Commissioner of Assessments and Taxation, is retiring from the City of Buffalo after almost 30 years of service. The transaction got to be. He has served as Commissioner since 2007, a long time. Before that, working as an assessor in the Department of Assessment and Taxation for over 16 years. Commissioner Kennedy, our friend, has served the City of Buffalo honorably, assisting taxpayers throughout as many years of service. And now, therefore, be it resolved, the Common Council wants to recognize its highest commendation for the manner in which Commissioner Kennedy has performed his duties in the City of Buffalo and wish him the best of luck in his retirement within the City of Buffalo. Commissioner, thank you for all your service. Thank you very much. To say I'm surprised this afternoon is an utter statement. I did not expect that, and I can't thank you enough. um mostly what i want to say and what and i'm really happy to have this opportunity because i want to thank you each and every one of you for what you do for the city of buffalo each council member here in your own community so committed and i see it when i work with what you mean your constituents what you collectively mean to the entire city of so i want to thank you for all that you do and for everything that you do. Thank you. Yes, they say your position is a left. There's nothing part time about being a council member in the city of Delta. It's 24 hours a day. 7 days a week. You answer your phone at home. You answer your phone in the office. You do everything that's asked of you. So for me, for my family, for our community, thank you so very, very much. And thank you. The motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on January 22nd, 2019 are approved. All of the late files are before us. If you have not had a chance, are there any objections, first of all, to any of the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you have not had a chance to look at those late files. I just need an updated agenda, please. one of the newest was this was all right is this the latest one all right all this one all right we're going from the top mr chairman motion to take items 65 and 78 out of order 65 and 78 okay all right second by councilman freelo item 65 discharge legislation committee and discharge 18-20 59 from cd Motion to adopt discharge for items 65 and 78. Second by Councilmember Wingo. From the top? From the top. Item 1, report of sale 86 Adams. Motion to send to CD items 1 and 2. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 3, report of sale 97 Kerr. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember White. Item 4, BMHA benefit eligibility follow-up audit. Motion to receive and file items 4 through 5. It's moved. And 4A? Is that a certificate? The certificate, you have that, you put that in there? Yes, we do. Okay, so 4, 4, 8, and 5. Seconded by Council Member DeLombe. Item 6, LaSalle Park Design and Waterfront. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fiala. Excuse me, that's item, are we in item 5? 6. So item 6. Item 6 is the LaSalle Park. Motion to approve items 6 through... 6 through 8. Oh, right, that was just a change in the account where the money was going. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 9, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 10, request transfer of city-owned property. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 11, appoint police captain. Motion to send to civil service items 11 through 17. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 18, claims committee agenda. Motion to send to claims committee. Second by Council Member Frioletto. item 19 food store license 412 auburn motion to approve second by president pro tipscan item 20 food store license 20 90 290 walden motion send legislation items 20 through 22. second by council member the lumbet item 23 second hand dealer 520 amherst motion to approve items 23 through 25. second by council member freelo item 26 solutions renewal agreement motion send finance items 26-28 Item 26 to 28, seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 29, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 29 through 31. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 32 has been withdrawn. Item 33, notice of appointment, council intern. Motion to adopt. second by councilman fontana and just explanation of why item 32 was withdrawn is there will be a package that will be delivered this was an application a resume for controller however this will come in one package with all of those who have applied for the controller position and then be presented to the council Next item. Item 34, appointing mayor-executives interned. Motion to receive and file items 34 through 35. Seconded by Councilmember Ponce. Item 36, no requirement, temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scala. Miscellaneous items, item 37, monthly city hall incident report. Motion to receive and file items 37 and 38. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Petitions, item 39, 1356 Main Street. Motion to send to live city planning board items 39 through 41. Seconded by Council Member Ferrell. Committee, civil service item 1, position allocation maintenance. Motion to approve items number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. Seconded by the Majority Leader Rivera. Finance Committee, item 11, cash flow report December 2018. Receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item 12, permission to enter into sole source agreement, Tyler Technologies. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader, Food Bear. Item 13, cash flow report, November 2018. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Franza. Community Development Committee, item 14, report of sales, 790 East Amherst. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 15, safety measures in school zones. Motion to receive and file 15 through and including... 29 second by councilmember Wyatt item 29 a report of sale to 62 62 South Hampton so this was a discharge and I just I'm sorry to check with corporation council so we do not in Ellicott sell two pieces of property that are contiguous designate developer. I have talked to the applicant about 260 only. So can we split this in that motion where we approve 260 and deny 262? Somewhat. All right. So on the record, what came from real estate was for 260 and 262 Southampton because of the precedent in Ellicott that we do not sell two contiguous lots unless they are designated developers. And the reason that has been is because we've had speculators who have just come in to areas and bought up streets with lots and not done anything to those lots and left those neighborhoods with huge holes in it. I have personally talked to the applicant about selling 260, and then after he has checked with the neighbor on the other side of him that he would be able to reapply for 262, he has agreed. And so on this one, it will be the selling of 260 and the denial of 262 at this time. Second by, oh wait, did I do it? Second by Councilmember Fontana. Next item. Legislation Committee, item 30, food store license 441 Walden. Number 30 is approved with conditions. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 31, used car dealer 2405 Bailey. If there are no objections, let's see if we can take items 30 through and including 37 and approve. Alright, all of those are approved. Second by Councilmember Fontana. item 38 councilmember um thank you mr president i just wanted to mention something about item number 36 in legislation um i want to thank my colleagues um for supporting this as well as the resolution from last year that led to this ordinance i think although sometimes towing of vehicles in the city of buffalo is a necessary evil in order to promote safety um Many times the residents of the City of Buffalo were taken advantage of. It became overly burdensome for them to retrieve their vehicles many a times. In some instances if a car was towed late on a Friday or a Friday evening, they weren't able to retrieve that vehicle until Monday, and they were being charged storage for the entire weekend. So this ordinance is going to eliminate that. The tow truck operators will now be, in order for them to charge, Either day over the weekend they will have to be open for that day if they're not going to be open they cannot charge for those days in addition to that the other problem we saw that was a A lot of times when towing a vehicle, they weren't reporting to the local police that they were towing, and people thought the cars were stolen. Police are out there looking for a stolen vehicle while sitting in a towed lot, which was diverting police resources that could obviously be used elsewhere. So this just bulks that up as well. So I want to thank everyone on the council for their support on this. It's a very good resolution or very good ordinance that you put forward. I know people who have lost their cars. because the car wasn't worth the towing fees at times. And so I'm sure a lot of people thank you. Good job. All right. Item 38, used car dealer 2675 Main Street. 38 is approved with conditions as follows. One, a one-year operation with 10 car limit. Two, no fencing permitted around front of the establishment. Three, no junk vehicles permitted outside in view of the public. Four, no tire shortage. So approve with those conditions. All right. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. On 39, the Mentoring Company's policy. 39 is receiving file. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 40, food store license 2255 Genesee. 40 is approved conditions as enunciated by the Electoral District Council Member. Second by Council Member Fontana. Resolutions. Item 42, bond resolution acquisition of ARV EMS response vehicles. Motion to send finance items 42 through 64. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 66, fee waiver, rally for Tanya Harvey. Motion to approve. Second by the sponsor, Council Member Franzen. Item 67, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. Item 67 and 68. Second by Council Member Golombek, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. On item number 68, I'd just like to mention that it feels like Groundhog Day again. I'm looking for Bill Murray to show up here. Every year there's a school board election. We have on this council, I've put forth a resolution requesting that the school board elections be moved into November. this year with the quote-unquote reforms that are taking place, with the primary being moved, I believe, June the 25th, in order to allegedly open up more democracy and things like that. This would have been a perfect opportunity to move the school board elections from the end of May until June the 25th. I believe that you would have more of a turnout on the 25th. I mean, I still think that they should go to November. But this would have been a good segue because I believe that the terms are until the end of June or the beginning of July. And, you know, it just makes so much sense. And I know that there's special interest groups from the left and the right. I know that there's special interest groups that don't want to move the school board election. They want to have a suppressed voter turnout. They want to be able to control the election as much as possible. And I think that that does a disservice to the residents of the city of Buffalo. You know, I still stick to my guns since day one that the election should be moved into November. But I think that this would have been a great segue. There were some parent groups that went on the record over the past week in support of moving the elections to the primary until June the 25th. I want to say I agree with that wholeheartedly. I wanted to bring this in front of the council again. And I hope that someday this resolution does not have to be filed because a wise decision will be made in Albany. to move the elections to November, but I think by moving them to June it would be a start in the right direction. Because if you have, for the sake of argument, 100% voter turnout and zero people contesting elections, that's not democracy. I've said this to my community when they talked about the moving of the primary to June. I said, yep, that's great for incumbents, it's going to be easier for incumbents, but if you want more democracy, have more people run for office. Bring up issues, bring up debates, bring up discussion. But I think that you have people from the left and the right, special interests that have vested interests, that don't want to see any true changes taking place. And I think that the place to start is with the school board elections. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. You've been consistent on that. Next item. 169, Erie County Sheriff body cameras. Motion to approve, send the remainder to the sheriff's, or send it to the sheriff's department, and send it to the sheriff's department. Yes. Thank you for your support. I'll move on. Councilmember Wingo? Well, I'm glad you're going to move on, but I'm going to say what I'm going to say, Mr. President, because I really believe that we need to focus the issue on the issue. The issue is safety and the integrity of the situation when it happens. So that it can't be compromised, it can't be left to interpretation of someone. People forget things that happen. There are variables that cannot be recalled that people can see when things are recorded. There was an article written in one of our outlets that made it appear as though if, you know, this was some type of attack on the county sheriffs. And it was not that at all. And if anyone read the article, they would see the spirit behind the intent of asking the county sheriffs to wear body cameras. And that's because we worked so closely with them Of course, we believe to have had a great working relationship with them. We'll continue to have a great working relationship with the county sheriffs. But what I did not appreciate was the fact that someone accused our council president of grandstanding or showboating the fact that we're trying to get them to. If I can use the right words, stunting. I was going to get there, Mr. President. I was going to get there. I was going to get there. Absolutely. accused our council president of stunting. And if you don't know what that means, that basically means that you're perpetrated. Now, at the end of the day, I do believe in the leadership of our council president. This is not an endorsement. This is just me stating the facts. We have enjoyed a great relationship between all council members under the leadership of Council President Pridgen. And everything that he's said and done so far, as far as I can see, has been to the betterment of this city and the betterment of this community and this community of leaders for our city. Now, to accuse Council President Pridgen of stunt, the way it's pronounced in our community, To accuse the council president of stunting was just really a deflection on what the issue really was about. And the issue really is about safety. It's really about trying to help to save lives, really about accountability. And, of course, we all know, even though it's a buzzword, this word of transparency. So we're trying to ensure that we're transparent, working together, but this was definitely offensive, not just to the Council President, but to all of us who are in support of body cameras to make sure that everyone's safe and to make sure that we do maintain this level of accountability in leadership. So why someone would not want their officers to be protected with the body cameras? I don't know. I don't think that it's the council president who was stunned. I'm going to leave that inductive reasoning to everyone else to figure out who's really stunned if you don't want the cameras on your offices. But other than that, I'll be happy to jump into that discussion with council president any day. Because I believe personally that body cameras not just save the lives of the people who... are being recorded, but they're also ensuring that we hold the officers accountable for their actions as well. And again, we do have a great working relationship with the sheriffs. Few of them are my friends. We have, we look forward to continuing into this relationship, but at the end of the day, we did not single out, I think that's the spirit of this, we did not single out the sheriffs. just to wear a body camera, just because of the close proximity of how they work with our law enforcement department, that we ask them to wear those as well. But other than that, I'm standing with our council president on this, and I'm hoping that all of us are willing to stand with our council president on this issue as well. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Council Member Franzen. Thank you, Mr. President. You know, I've attended meetings with Representatives Erie County Sheriff most recently at Pastor Gelsie's church on Broadway and Wilson. And it was a very good meeting. And some of the deputized people are people I've known for years who are sheriffs, deputy sheriffs or deputized sheriffs. And one was Our former Deputy Police Commissioner, Charles Tomaszewski, who now works there and he was very good after he retired from the Buffalo Police Department. Donald O'Allen, everybody knows Donald O'Allen. He's the former Commissioner of Human Resources. back here in City Hall back in the day and other individuals the sheriff Howard wasn't there I Never really had to interact with him. I see me looks good on the horse I mean, I'm telling you he's there and see him looks very good. And so, you know, I've been courteous, but I would say that there's He got it all wrong, in the sense there's a tone deafness. Is that you weren't trying to be belligerent or tell somebody what to do. I mean, any objective observer will see... as evidenced by the action of that officer at Rich Stadium with that young gentleman who, you know, with that bloody face. I mean, that was the picture of the year practically because something, you know, has gone wrong. And they say, oh, there goes Echtel again. There goes the guy again. And we wouldn't – I'm not saying that you're always going to see officers doing things What we called back in the 60s police brutality, that's not the case at all. All I'm saying is that you meant it, the way I read it and the way I saw it, is that you meant it to be helpful, not to say this is how you're going to do your job. You don't think you're a sheriff, although you were in the military police in the Air Force, weren't you? Absolutely. So you do have experience. So you were deputized. You were military police. So it's not like you're talking out of your hat. So you did have info. You did. You have not firsthand knowledge about that. So it would have been smart and prudent if he had taken in the spirit that it was given. And it's too bad that it wasn't. It didn't translate that way. But I'm sure everyone here supports this resolution. Thank you. Thank you, sir. That wasn't a comment on it, but it was in the spirit of an outcome. Right. You come in the spirit of. especially of cooperation, especially in light of the fact that the Sheriff's Department had did a pilot program. So I'm not really sure why you do a pilot program if you're not considering something. We did a pilot program here because this council was very clear of its support for body cams and then the administration and eventually the police commissioner. I don't know why go to a car lot and test out a car if you weren't considering buying one. So I put forward the resolution, especially, and it was on the King holiday. I won't shirk away from that, because I thought it was one to talk about justice, one of transparency, one of cooperation. You know, I think that our Buffalo Police Department will benefit greatly from police cams when it comes to building trust with community. That's it. That's all. And even the resolution here doesn't say they're better. And I know he had a spokesman who spoke for him, and I think that the spokesman – I I wish he had to do his homework a little bit to see what the spirit of what we were talking about was. At the end of the day, what I'm not going to do is battle back and forth with county government or with the sheriff's office. That's not the spirit of this resolution. It is one to say we support those body cams in the city of Buffalo, if nothing more. I can't tell them what to do in Elma or any other place where they might operate. But especially when anybody has the ability... to take away a freedom from someone else without any type of record... In this atmosphere, it does not build trust. So this was about trust. I'm going to stay at the level I'm at. To this minute, there is no battle. There's a request, and that request is coming out of a spirit of cooperation, not one of fighting against each other. I think our people in this town and in this county and in the United States have seen elected officials who simply fight to fight. That's not what will come from this elected official, nor have we this body. On all of our movements over these years, has that been the case? Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to add my name to this resolution and go back to something that we've done some years ago regarding the holding center. We did a story about the conditions of the holding center. We weren't trying to be elected. It was just a situation where we thought we could help. This resolution that you put forth is in the spirit of not politics. How can we help? The Sheriff's Office has had numerous complaints. We have people who have died. India Cummings just recently, her family sued because of the issues at the coding center. This could be a huge tool to assist in helping. Why wouldn't you want some assistance in helping, a resolution to help people feel good about their loved ones being incarcerated, that because they're incarcerated, they would not be threatened or their lives be in jeopardy when people who are responsible for upholding the law have your loved one in place? I remember when you and I went the first time to the holding center, and I said to you, why are we going there for criminals? And you said, they're not criminals. They're being charged. They have not been convicted. For me, that sensitized me to people and situations that sometimes you don't understand, because you have not walked in those shoes, or you have not been in those situations. He has a responsibility. And when I heard that he talked about it being political, to me it was just a knee-jerk reaction. And as you said, maybe he didn't do his homework. But if he understood or he made even a phone call to you, council president, what is your thought? We don't do that. Unfortunately, we take a knee-jerk reaction and say it's political. Well, it's not. The people who have come before him, who have protested at the holding center, have protested for good reason. People have died there. You don't expect to go to the holding center and die. You're supposed to go there and be held until you're dead. your court date comes forth but this is an opportunity to help and i hope that he reconsider and he'll reach out to you don't have some dialogue with you to see what we can do because the incidents that we've seen over the past several years have not been good it's been a black eye on erie county and it shouldn't be and hopefully this man will look into the mirror and recognize that this is not a political stunt it's about us helping people and giving the public a trust that when my loved one goes to the holding center, unfortunately, they come out as they went in and not worse off. Thank you for this resolution, and I definitely support it. Thank you, sir. Council Member Fontana. We're holding the department to the same standard that we hold our department to. I think that's a key piece. And, you know, maybe we should also ask other agencies to do the same, and we can do that. That could be done in the future as well. But I think the next department that we all know on the top of our minds is the Sheriff's Department. Now, I grew up as a Sheriff's Department kid. My dad was a deputy sheriff. My aunt's father is Mike Amico, sheriff of the county. So I grew up with the Sheriff's Department and even got involved in a few races over the years to help some people that I thought would be good sheriffs. I talked to Pat Galvin the other day, actually, he's a former sheriff, very professional, ran a good department. But we all hear about the old days. And we hear about things that happened in the old days. And the only way to stop those things from happening is transparency. And cameras provide those transparent images that we all need to see. Seeing Sheriff Eichel jump up like a maniac in his car. and running out of that car and bloodying that boy's face and then putting him against it, holding him down longer than he needed to hold him, in my opinion, on camera. Being on camera, no less. What happens without the camera? And that's a question that the residents ask us all the time. They like cameras because it protects them, but it also protects good sheriffs, good police officers, against the ones that don't do the job right. I've never seen a cop jump out of a seat that fast to go chase somebody on words alone. He wasn't committing a crime. He wasn't attacking somebody. He was merely being a smartass, which he shouldn't have been. But that attitude caused that reaction from that officer. It goes against all the training in the book. His officer partner said, uh-oh. That's what he said. Like, uh-oh, I know it's happening again. And now the Buffalo News reports that this happens on other occasions, so I think the officer definitely needs to have a body cam on him at all times, and maybe then he won't react the way he did, because it goes against any of the training that I've seen that's offered. And I've spoken to sheriffs, and they don't like working around hotheads, and it seems like the cameras would help them. cure some of the hothead issues that some officers exhibit. Not all, not many. I have the greatest respect for the Sheriff's Department. Many, many members have helped my family over the years, worked with our family. I've been kind to our family. Nothing but respect. But, boy, to see him erupt out of that seat was amazing in that car. It was just amazing. It was explosive, based on words alone. So I think the cameras are good. I think it's something that's consistent with what you're asking the Buffalo Police to do, so they have no problem with that. And I'm sure that if there's another agency that's brought to our attention that interacts with the public often, It would be the same standard. It's no different standard. And you would have put this forth if there was a democratically elected sheriff or a republically elected sheriff because the sheriff's office should not be political. It really doesn't matter if there's a D, R, I, or C in front of that sheriff's name. It really doesn't matter. It's a law enforcement position. Mike Amico always told me the sheriff's department is not politics. It's about people, it's about function, it's about safety. And actually, the sheriff has one of the highest powers in the entire county of all people. So that's my two cents, and I appreciate the resolution. Thank you, sir. Council Member Revere. Thank you very much, Mr. Council President. It's unfortunate, and I like to think that they wish they didn't use the words that they used. We can't tell Amherst, Hamburg, West Seneca whether or not to use body cameras. They're not our constituency. However Erie County Sheriff is, we make one-third the county population. We elect, we vote for him. We vote for our county legislators so we can hold those accountable. He can't lose sight that when we speak as a city we make up one-third of the county population and I think he disrespected that that one-third of the county population. You can't disregard the City of Buffalo. We are Erie County taxpayers, and they are responsive to us as well, and so is he as a sheriff. When we as a council speak, I think he needs to pay close attention and not disrespect the debates and the concerns that we have here on the Common Council. So thank you very much. I support your resolution as well. And there will, and thank you, Majority Leader, there will be other departments that are looked at. The only reason this was the first is because it was very public that they had had a trial. I think that NFTA needs to be looked at, those officers, because they are stopping people on city streets if it's on a bus route. But I've seen it when it wasn't on a bus route. So at the end of the day, if you have the ability to take away my freedom... And there is technology available to ensure that that occurs correctly and that I and to protect that officer. I'm not sure why we wouldn't. I am going to direct council staff to try to arrange a private meeting with the sheriff because I won't wait for him to reach out. I'll reach out to him and let's have a civil discussion on the matter. and either move it up, move it down, help them beg for the money. That's where governments, I think, should work together. If you don't have the money and you say it's because of money, let governments work together so that those connections that are there across government aisles and across, we told a Democratic mayor, The mayor of the city of Buffalo is not Republican. He's Democrat. Everybody on this council is Democrat. We told the Democratic mayor that's what we wanted. So it should be no different just because you're a Republican. And, again, we'll reach out. We'll do the best we can. Thank you all. Councilman Fontana, then we'll move on. And just to make light of this also, because it was also reported in the news, that same sheriff also held a woman against her will in Chestnut Ridge Park and made her have a very, very unpleasant day. and we should not lose track of what he did to that female in the park, a mother in a car with her children. I wish we had video camera footage of that incident as well, because she was put through quite a day, and there you have an innocent woman working, having a fun day with her kids, and that officer turned her day into a nightmare. Yes, sir. Thank you all. Thank you. Next item. Item 70 has been withdrawn. Item 71 urged Governor Cuomo to fund Communities First Program. Motion to adapt and resolve the remainder to let the CD. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 72, Budget and Personnel Amendment. Motion to approve items 72 through 74. Second by Councilmember White. Item 75, Commissioner Deeds. Motion to adopt items 75 and 76. Second by Council Member White. Item 77, Transfer Funds, City Clerk. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Announcement of Committee Meetings. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, February 12th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, February 12th, 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, February 12th, 2 p.m. Special Committees. Committee on Education, Tuesday, February 12th, 12 p.m. Committee on Claims, Wednesday, February 13th, 11 a.m. Council Member Fontana. If we could revisit item number 40 out of legislation, the discharge item. 40? Item number 40 out of... Legislation. All right. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Our applicant is here today and I want to thank him for coming down. He has agreed to sell no alcohol, no beer, and no tobacco products of any kind in the store. This is the reason why we like this situation. He's going to have some fresh fruits, fresh vegetables in the store, so it won't be one of those pop, chip, and blunt stores that we really don't need any more of in the city of Buffalo for people's health. So with the conditions read into the agenda today, no sale of alcohol allowed, no sale of beer allowed, no sale of tobacco products allowed. of any kind and thank you for that and if any of you council members i know we're getting ready to review the stores i know council member wingo has you've been doing your tour uh they told me of the stores if you find a product in your stores called cannabis if you could let someone know uh essential staff so you put together uh those stores that they are actually selling a product called cannabis what is it um from what a caller said today it Some of the stores are saying it's cannabis without the, what is it, T, I don't know, the THC. I don't know how true it is. I have talked to Corporation Council about this yesterday. You remember some years ago we exposed stores selling cannabis candy. It was candy that looked like cannabis, and we got those out. But what I'm concerned about is some of the stores that are being reported supposedly have drug paraphernalia in the same area so that when you walk in you see the paraphernalia, then you see this product called cannabis. So please, please, if you all are touring your stores so that jointly, but I know a council member is working on something right now for it, so that way we can get it to the council member working on it. Anything else? All right, announcements? thank you thank you mr president um just want to invite the university district residents this saturday to uh 2125 gerrard place one of our newest training centers in the University District. We're having our breakfast as well as a tour from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. Please call my office if you're interested in attending. That's 21, excuse me, 2515 Bailey Avenue from 9, this Saturday from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. Thank you. Anybody else? All right, motion? Motion. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Thank you.