Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Fontana. Here. Councilmember Francik. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Councilmember Rivera. He's here. Councilmember Scanlon. Here. Councilmember Wingo. Here. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Forum present. I stand for the pledge that I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice. Our Chaplain, the Reverend Al... ... ... Ditch it. Ditch it. Um... I mentioned this before, but I have a heart for people that want to work in our city. Some of whom don't have jobs in your district and all of our districts. I mentioned to you before that when BAC USA closed last October, my son was one of the 140 employees that was out of a job, and four months later, still out of a job. And he's gone through interview after interview and feeling all the rejection. But that sort of hit hard for many of us in many of our districts that have people who want to work, have a heart to work, but don't have a job to work. And I really want to pray today for employment. My son's wife is from Florida, but when he lost his job and said to her, do you want to go back to Florida for me to look? He said, we're Team Buffalo now. Well, we've got a lot of people that want to stay here, but we need some jobs to make that possible. I know this council works hard, but there's probably not a week that goes by you don't run into somebody who needs a job in your district. And they're crying out just like my son and his wife are, and us as parents are crying out on their behalf. And God hears those prayers and cry from us and from the next generation. I want those kids and adults that have a heart to work, a mind to work, a will to work, to find a great job right here in Buffalo, New York. I want this to be a place where they're planted and where they become productive citizens for the next and the next and the next generation. Is there anybody here on the council that doesn't have somebody who fits that bill, that's crying out for a job and you want to see them get it, but you can't make it happen? So I want to pray for people to create jobs, job employment, jobs and better jobs, jobs and better wage jobs, jobs and what jobs bring in terms of fulfillment to people's lives as they are able to access that and embrace that and walk that out. I know the mayor's summer internship program has been launched once again. But I'm reminded that in Aurora, Illinois, just a few days ago, if you followed those five that were killed, one of them was a young man who was on his first day as an intern for human resources. So we need to pray for their protection as well. How important is it for this generation? Could you bow with me in prayer? Father, I thank you for your word. Thank you for what Nehemiah wrote, that the walls came up that had been down for a decade, century and a half. They came back up because the people put their mind to the task. Father, you know that every one of the council districts in this city, that there are those who are desperate for employment, either they're unemployed or underemployed. And Father, I know how close that hits home for Debbie and me. Lord, I pray for each of the council members, each of the districts over which they preside. Lord, I pray that there wouldn't be just jobs in one district around the medical campus, but Lord, district after district will see signs of hope and life arising. God, creation. jobs that pay a wage that our young people and adults can afford to live here and to do well here. We pray this will be a place of abundance and prosperity, a place where people can bloom and grow. Father, I thank you so much now for each person who's crying out to you for that employment opportunity. And I ask that today you, the God of open doors, would do it again on behalf of our prayer as we lift those who need jobs to you. Bless them, we pray, in the name of the Father, Son, and your Holy Spirit. Amen. Amen. Councilmembers and memorials, Councilmember Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President. Donna Fiorella, the wife of Judge Fiorella, passed away after a long battle with cancer. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends, and in particular by Judy Lombardo, who we all know from City Hall, is the daughter-in-law of her and her husband, Joe Fiorella. And then also Helen Kuta. I've mentioned before that one of the hardest parts about the job is that you get to meet so many people, you know, each and every one of us. And you end up losing many of these people over the time that you're involved in the community, on the council, et cetera. Well, Helen Kuta was one of those people that... She was just a superwoman. We used to joke that she was the mayor of Peter Street, even after she got sick and she couldn't come to block clubs anymore. We would always call her up, and I would always call her up and say, hey Helen, what's going on on the street? And she'd say, oh, I'm looking out the window and I'm keeping an eye on you. She was the Polish block watchers on the street. We would laugh about that, but she's gonna be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends and by myself as well. Any others? Councilmember Wyatt. Praying for the family of one of our strong members in the University District, Renata Toney. Her mom passed, and this was a beautiful person. I never met her mom, but I know Renata, and I know her passion for the community, and whatever she does, she had a beautiful post on Facebook about her mom, what her mom meant to her. So we're praying for her and her family. Absolutely. Any others? Soldier? No. Not knowing of any who have given their life for our last meeting we pray really for those in the country of Haiti and also in El Salvador Where there is unrest and so we always pray for peace Let's pause for a moment. Thank you The motion by mr. Revere second by miss Scanlon the minutes of the stated meeting of February 5th 2019 approved. There are late files in front of us. Are there any objections to any of the late files in front of us? Hearing none, we will hear the entire agenda. That is, before it's not taken away, you're right to pause this meeting if you need to Review one of the late files are we going from the top today? From the top I'm one mayor out of town travel motion to receive and file Second by councilman for your loan pattern to report of sales 74 Franklin motion to sentence motion to send the CD Second by council member friends. I who has the floor. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. It's up. I It's gratifying to see how quickly this property was found much interest Mr. Jamal has Put in an offer that's been brought before us the gentleman that's doing the Seneca Tower So it looks like he's putting together a good mix of uses for that building I think it's also important that he pointed out that that 10% of what he wants to carve out will be for affordable housing I heard you on the radio this morning. Mr. President and saying that, which was reflecting the resolution that we had adopted here as a body, saying that's a very important component. There's some interesting things, because in caucus I had queried Mr. Mahaffey about, you know, the average median income and so forth, what he's talking about, and what we were told, or what I suspect is happening, is that we're dealing with every county average median income which is around $50,000 a year. The city of Buffalo, it's lower. The average median income is $34,000. So if you use the county figures, the affordable rent will be $1,250. I mean, I wouldn't want to pay $1,250. And, you know, I haven't rented for a very long time. And I haven't paid a mortgage in a very long time. So I don't know. In my district, the going rate, I see like 700, sometimes lower in parts of the east side. So if you are making average median income $34,000, the rent should be closer to $850,000, $850,000, rather than $1,250,000. So I'm very, very happy that Mr. Jamal has made statements that he did. We have to approve this eventually. I think it could be a great project, over $3 million and the mix of uses that he wants to do in there. But I think there's going to be room for negotiation about the 10% numbers because you're going to have folks that are not going to be able to pay $1,250. but you're gonna have people with the average median income that could pay somewhat less than that to live downtown I'm sure in a very nice apartment so this is something as we send this this new development which I think is a good idea that we can flush this out and come up with a fair solution for everybody the developer but more most importantly the people in the city thank you I agree mr. friends I've got the councilman for friends that So there have been some outlets that put out that, and I saw the reports, that this was sold. And I think what is very important for the people in the city of Buffalo to know, 74 Franklin has not been sold. So anyone who uses that headline is incorrect. It is before us, the Common Council has not made its final decision, and I do believe that we have to look at that AMI. that the average medium income to ensure. I was very, very pleased when the information was shared with me that there would be an affordable component. But by no means should anyone say that the police headquarters has been sold. There's still a process that it must go through, and it's in the process now. And it takes a two-thirds vote of this body. Absolutely. Or to sell the property. Anything else, Council Member White? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to thank my colleague, Council Member Franczak in introducing that. I think that was fantastic. That's the type of forward thinking that we have to put in place if we want to make sure that all all boats rise in the city of Buffalo. And I'm glad that you clarified that point because we asked some questions during caucus about this process. And we wanted to be clear on how this process worked and how it would affect us. But to find out that this gentleman is interested in making certain that there's a percentage that is affordable is huge. But I'm really hopeful this year that we can have something that's, that's put forth legislatively to make sure that we stay on that same point of inclusionary zoning that we have it official and not just someone having a good heart to do it, but it should be something just like our living wage is something that's already included in our charter. So these are things that I think, again, will ensure that all votes rise. and that we don't take our foot off the pedal because I think it's been, people have felt that we've kind of stepped back from it. No, we haven't. We're still working, but we still need to put more force behind it because that's something that was promised to us. And I'm not going to forget that we were, we talked about the green code and how part of that could be part of this inclusionary piece and it hasn't happened. So I want to make sure that we still look at that and we don't just step back and not do anything. We need to do something and make sure this happens because it just shouldn't be on someone's good faith effort to make sure that this happens. It really should be something that we do legislatively. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I think that this council has sent out a clear message because we're seeing more and more developers voluntarily say, we heard you. Miller Fillmore Gates is putting in an affordable housing component. um and that's important and it is not even mandated but they they hurt us and the allocate the apartments that are going on i think it's 201 allocate um the entire thing is going to be workplace. And when it first came to us, that entire project was marketplace. And so, yeah, I agree, we just have to stay on until we get moving some direction legislatively, and that's being worked on. Right now we just met with Dottie Gallagher, Gallagher and others in the partnership to talk about how we target areas to be able to make sure we get affordable housing in the Buffalo is not just market rate next item I'm sorry comes from a woman but mr. Pintana's first oh I'm sorry Council member Fontana. Thanks Joe. Just so we know there's there's reference to another bid that was presented and we should see the other bid so we know if they bid five million dollars we need to know that if they bid two million dollars we need to know that so I'd like to know what committee who was on the committee that did research just so we have the background information because one time. I voted for something and then people were like, well, do you know the other bid was higher? And that's the last thing you want to hear at the end of the day. Now, I'm not saying that's the case, but we should see the other bids just so we can make a full determination on if this was the best bid. Looks good to me, but let's see if it is actually the best bid or not. Which is our job. It truly is. To investigate is one of the council's duties. Any good financial person would investigate, so we should investigate that situation. So I'd like to see the other bids, see what it was for, see how much it was, and and go from there. I'm very happy that this was on the MLS system. Everybody across Western New York could see that. Anybody looking at the Western New York system could look at that. So that was very good, very open. And that really goes to the leadership of our Director of Real Estate, who's done a fantastic job so far in her role. She's really brought a true key broker aspect to that job, already bringing us some real results for the budget. She brought us a million dollars at the last meeting, close to a million with school 11. That was nowhere near completed until she got here. She got that done, and now this was a little bit easier building the cell, but she did get this thing done as well. So hats off to our director of real estate, Hope. She's done a fantastic job. And I think putting those on the MLS is a very smart move. I agree. She's moving properties. I think we might be in better shape than maybe what we even thought because she's moving properties that have sat for a very long time. She's a go-getter. Yeah, I agree. Thank you. Councilmember Golombet. Thank you Mr. President. You know, for the record, I think there's no one here that doesn't know I don't support inclusionary zoning as a law, as an ordinance in the City of Buffalo. I will share that since I've been councilmember, we have built approximately 250 units in the North Councilmanic District. I have met with developers, I've met with realtors, and of those approximately 250 units, about half of them, maybe more than half of them, are what you would consider to be IZ properties. They're for lower income people, and I've been a supporter of that, but that's with working with the developers, because I think that every single project has different parameters. I had one project that was on Chandler Street, by two well-known developers, and they came into this project, and they were only able to fit in 27 units into this building. And they needed 30 for the break-even point for them. And they ended up walking away from this. And I remember asking them, I said, well, if you had even a 10% mandatory IZ for this, what would you have done? They said, we would have never met with you. We would never have met with you or the city above. We wouldn't even have tried to fit anything in there. So while, I mean, I think it's a wonderful idea, and once again, you know, you can check in the North District, half of the new development that's gone up are what you would consider IZ properties. I think that everything has to be done on a case-by-case study. And I'm very, very concerned because I have that development that's starting to come into the North Councilmanic District. And I have residents that have said, you know, oh, my goodness, you know, they've read something on some of the newspapers and the press. And their questions when we go to block clubs are, is this going to stop anything from coming into our neighborhood? It always stops before it comes into Black Rock, Riverside, the North District. And so this is a concern that I have. And once again, while I support the idea and the concept of inclusionary zoning, I will not be supporting it as a mandatory percentage, whether it's 10 percent or 30 percent or whatever that is. And I understand that, and I think we've heard you loud and clear on the north. There are people on the east side who feel the exact opposite. There are people who are in the fruit belt. uh who say if there is not some type of policy i may not be able to afford to be able to afford to live and all of the housing that would come from in our area would be market rate you know i'll be you know just as candid that i I believe when you're using government money, when you need government land, that the government has some responsibility to make sure that there is some equity in where people are able to live. The unfortunate part is I don't think that we'll ever get to a point where we hope, where hope will produce a change. We can hope, we could have hoped in civil rights days that people would do the right thing, but it took some time. move from the government and Even when we talk about inclusionary zoning it may not be every project you building with your own money You got your own land you do whatever you want to but I think that you know I've watched I've said it sat in this chair and I've watched Government whether it was the county the state or the city Make ways to make something happen. I And at the end of the day, if we're saying, just like Miller Fillmore Gates, who wants agreement, Ellicott Apartments, that if we have the finances to help supplement those projects so that we have communities that are mixed, it's important. So I think when we talk about it, we may have to start having that discussion, and we're going to have to have that discussion of area-based, of where they need. There's some areas that don't need inclusionary zoning. They're already very, very affordable and maybe under market. But at the end of the day, I think that different neighborhoods are calling for different things. And I know my constituents are saying. We want building and we want construction, but what we don't want to do is we don't want to be in a place where we can't live in our neighborhood. And the council is going to have to have that discussion because I don't think waiting is going to be acceptable soon. Council Member Fontana. We didn't want to miss this opportunity because this really shined a light on value of property and inclusionary zoning. It was a good chance to see what it would do. The only problem is they used a... comparison approach on the appraisal. They didn't use a income-based approach. So if they used the income-based approach, I would have been able to report back to you as to how inclusionary zoning would have affected the value of the building. But they did use a appraisal that showed comparables and we ended up getting the same amount for the building based on that philosophy. and included inclusionary zoning. So in this particular case, even though it was an income approach, we still received the same amount of money as the appraisal. The inclusionary zoning piece of it that was voluntary did not lower the price that he offered for the building. So that's one good thing that came before us today when it comes to the argument for inclusionary zoning. If it was an income-based, I could have gave you an apples-to-apples comparison and told you, well, this just cost us $500,000 off the purchase, so then you make your decision based off of that. But it didn't cost a penny off the appraisal because it was based on a comparison. absolutely councilmember revere thank you very much mr chairman i just want to commend the mayor for seeking a community benefits agreement with the developer and i think we should see more of that especially where the city has an interest the city owns the building so it is a public asset and there should be some benefit to the community and i want to commend council member franzek for initiating this. And it only goes to show that we can do it. We've seen it on the east side. It's starting to work in the east side. We'd like to see it in different parts of the city. People, not only in the poor neighborhoods, want this, or the less privileged neighborhood. They'd like to see this in really strong neighborhoods, like the Elmwood Village. I've had folks from the Elmwood Village support inclusionary zoning of portable housing. So it's not just the... the poorer areas or perhaps the less fortunate areas, and excuse the word, probably other words that you can use. But we have people calling out for this. And I want them to know where we stand. There may be council members for it or against it, and I respect their views. But I want to make it clear to those people that are watching us, and they've asked me this, and I was surprised that they asked me this question, are you for it or against it? I want people to know that I am for it. 100% for it. Our Office of Strategic Planning came back to us with a study that says, yes, we need to do more of this in our stronger neighborhoods, or else we're going to, people that look like us are not going to be able to live in those neighborhoods. Whether it's downtown development, Larkinville development, Fruitbelt, future Fruitbelt, Elmwood Village, North District, Delaware District, people should be able to live in those areas. And I support it and I want people to know that because they're questioning. Where are you on inclusionary zoning? I said we've been talking about this for a couple years now since the Green Code. And during the Green Code, I honestly believe that we should have passed it during the Green Code. Looking back, I wish we would have approved it when we had that shot at the apple. However, I commend the Mayor because he's doing more of this. And it just goes to show that we can do it. And I listen to the developers, but you know what? I listen to the residents. Those people that want to live in those neighborhoods. I'm listening very carefully to what they're telling me when I go to Black Club meetings. And they say, Mr. Rivera, I can't live in the neighborhood that I want to live in, that I grew up in, that I went to the community center, that my family... I can't live anymore because I can't afford to rent there any longer. My heart goes out to those people and I'm here to speak up on their behalf. So I want to commend the mayor, the administration, especially Councilmember Franczak who brought up this issue on making that particular development affordable housing. And yes, we work with the developers. Nobody's saying don't work with the developers. I'm sure the mayor is working with the developers when he's talking about community benefits agreement for that building. It's already on his radar, and I think we need to put it on the radar when it comes to more developments going forward in the future. Thank you very much. Mr. Colombo? Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to mention that I think some of this is semantics. My position is not that I don't support inclusionary zoning. I don't support a lot. that would be a one-size-fits-all law. And that has been my position since day one. We wouldn't have had 50% of properties being built in my district without there being a law in the books. That meant that, you know, I spent time dealing with developers and working with them and trying to find proper fits for my neighborhood and my community. Because as everybody else here is concerned about the residents that live in their districts, so too am I. However, that being said, What my concern is, is that if we have a blanket rule or a blanket ordinance, that it will end up harming development in the City of Buffalo and in particular in the North District, where if you come into my neighborhood now, I've had properties coming down on Elmwood Avenue, on Tonawanda Street, and numerous other places. I have developments being proposed for Tonawanda between Amherst and Niagara. and numerous other places that are going to be starting hopefully this summer. And my concern is that if there was a one-size-fits-all approach, that this would not work. Now, that being said, when I meet with the developers and when I make mandatory meetings for them, and we're going to hear about that in a couple more items, You know, I request this of them, that they work with the community and they try to come up with something that fits into the neighborhood. And what fits into my neighborhoods and the neighborhoods that I represent, as you mentioned, is very different from other parts of the city of Buffalo. But my position is I'm not opposed to inclusionary zoning. I am opposed to inclusionary zoning as an ordinance or a law in the city of Buffalo. Can I take that as a soundbite? I'm not opposed to inclusionary zoning. Did you record that? Good, I'll use it later. And I think in all honesty, this is really good for us to have these discussions and to have them in the public forum because at the end of the day, and I can't speak for every person, every council member, but I think that that's what we're trying to get to, to a place where it fits, but where it may not fit everyone. And that's why I think the discussion is starting to look at what areas need it more than other areas. So we'll continue moving forward. I won't say continue discussing it. We'll continue moving forward because we have some concerns. Good, good. Thank you very much. Next item. Item 3, submission of monthly report January 2019. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 4, 166-170 Dart Street, designated developer agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member, oh, I'm sorry. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Golombek and Council Member Franczak are asking to be recused. from that vote. So we need to recuse them. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana, and then the vote goes forward with the recuse. I did have one comment, Mr. President. You know, in the north, because Mr. Franchik and I teach part-time at Buff State, the law department recommended that we recuse ourselves or have ourselves recused. However, I don't want my responsibility as councilmember to not happen um as i mentioned earlier whenever i have a developer that comes into the district we require we require we don't request we require that they come in front of the good neighbor planning alliance um what i would like to see with this item if i could get somebody that could make this recommendation that the approval would be with the gnpa the good neighbor planning alliance for black rock riverside being involved with the process. Because there's a lot of, you know, that's going to impact the west side of Buffalo, that's going to impact Black Rock neighborhood and North Buffalo. And I don't want Buffalo State College or any developer to come in there and just simply develop something without the involvement or the input from the community. We've had residents and groups that have looked for, and I support, a lacrosse field, an indoor lacrosse field. Perhaps that could be something that could be discussed to be put over there. I have a lot of lacrosse players, I have a lot of Native Americans that live in that area that have used various sites in that neighborhood and have come to me and requested that we look for someplace where they could do an indoor year-round lacrosse field. You know, I think that working with the community, you know, they're going to see a bigger picture. The residents from Black Rock and my part of the west side that I've dealt with have requested over the past a proposal that the Skajakwa Expressway be made into a parkway, something along what the University of Rochester has done in the past. along the Genesee River. They've made it much more into a parkway. We'd like to see an amount of green space that would be in that community, a parkway, but also new builds that would be in there. We want to see something that will be beneficial not only for the campus but for the residents who live there. And unfortunately I can't vote on this item, so if somebody else could take care of this for me, Mr. President, it would be greatly appreciated. Thank you. Councilmember Fontana. I'd like to include what Mr. Glumbeck mentioned as a approving motion as far as the condition on the approving motion. Alright, so the approval to a condition on the approving motion would be that the GNPA would be involved with the process of this designated developer. Okay, and is that second? Black Rock Riverside GNPA. Black Rock, we got that right for the record. Second by Mr. Furlow? Yes. I want to make this plain again another item that some people think that today we are selling this property. This property is not being sold. It is being, the entity is being chosen as a designated developer and they will pay the City of Buffalo $1,000 a month as the purchase price has been negotiated and they have to produce, move forward within 18 months. uh after 18 months the council would have to extend it or not extend the designated developer agreement so that's very very important that this is not sold this is not sold franklin is not sold it is going through the legislative process councilman fontana do we are we going to retain use of the site during the 18 months is that we're going to do because i don't know where else we're going to put an impound at this point without expending funds that we don't have I don't know the answer to that, and we can get you an answer by the end of this session, because I think that's a very good point. You know, I've been involved with DDH before, and you didn't take possession of it. So whatever it was, it remained until you got ready to move forward with the closing. So basically for the public, Buff State is looking to do their due diligence work. I'm just like to see what the feasibility of future aspects would be as well as then I don't know if we have any internal appraisals But the council member should be afforded those internal appraisals because We've spent quite a bit of money over the years at that site. In fact, I voted against putting a roof on the building one time because I thought it was going to go back then. When we first bought the site, it was talked about that Buff State wanted it. We were just like, well, why are we going in there in the first place? But it was picked because of the shelter, and now we're looking to do another site potentially somewhere else. We haven't been told the site yet, but we'll see what that means. Also, are we going to build another building? Back then, Al Capola and myself wanted to put up a fence. Over some vacant land that we had they told us that that wasn't wasn't gonna be suffice We'll see if that's twice now and we'll go from there So it's interesting to see the whole circle of this we saw it when it was bought now We're seeing when it's being potentially sold and what that will impact the neighborhood like mr. Golombak mentions would be very interesting. This is a horrible eyesore right where huge eyes are very very visible and so I'm thrilled that like that when we're starting to move and In a different direction, although it's not my district We all see it as councilmember friends that says, you know, it affects us all and we all see it So I think we're all very concerned comes remember scandal. Thank you. And I believe mr Mahaffey mentioned during caucus at an RP be going out for the cars. Oh for the cars. All right So if anybody has any of you that you know acres of land that's not right on the three-way Please call once he puts it up No, well, the only one who probably does is come to him Fontana if he doesn't have it. We're in trouble. I So the public will be notified on that. All righty. Good deal. Next item. Approve as amended. Approve as amended. We didn't finish that off? We just... All right. So to approve as amended, seconded by Council Member Fairlittle. Thank you. Item 5, designated developer agreement, Buffalo Neighborhood Stabilization Company. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item 6, lease renewal for South Buffalo American Legion Post 721. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fairlittle. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 7, report of sale 541 Fillmore. Motion to send legislation. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item 8, Buffalo Zoo lease extension agreement. Motion to approve items A through 10. Second by Councilmember Firoletto. Item 11, appoint computer shift supervisor. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember White. Item 12, contract amendment City of Buffalo and Socrata, Inc. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 13, notification serial. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item 14, Permission to Hire Consultant by Zanette House. Motion to approve items 14 through 17. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 18, Report of Bids, Police and Fire Headquarters at Dillon Courthouse. Motion to send Finance. Seconded by Councilmember Pantana. Item 19, Appoint Cocker Supervisor 1. Motion to send Civil Service. Seconded by the President Pro Temp Scantley. Item 20, Change in Account from Public Works to Fire. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item 21, appoint firefighters. Motion to send civil service. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 22, reimbursement for tire damages due to pothole. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 23, Contracts to the Buffalo and Guider Dunn of Western New York. Motion to send to legislation items 23 through 25. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 26, Secondhand Dealer 1503 Seneca Street. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Any conditions on that? I tell you, I met with the owner there, and he's from New York City. His mother lives in Toronto. They're meeting in the middle in Buffalo to open a business. It's great. Nice people and real, real true business people. So I'm excited to have them in the district. Good. That's a good deal. Next item. Item 27, second quarter gap. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 28, approved for parking department to obtain towed vehicle. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Scanlon, this, I mean, while we're on tows, in your resolution in the new ordinance, that also includes the city impound or no? That was regulated private towed vehicle. it's just private. So if we told right now and we're closed, we're still charging the fees? Assistant Corporation Councilor Karen Gordon, the ordinance amendment did not affect what the city currently does. It doesn't affect any business that the city carries on with towards her company. So whatever would have been in place is still in place as it relates to the city. Okay. So... Councilmember Revere? So the question is... I think I gave misinformation. Good point because do we charge storage during the weekend when they're closed? We don't. The city doesn't... The city doesn't charge storage? So we don't need it to be there. Okay. Good. Then I gave the right information. Somebody's car was towed this weekend from out of town and the city towed it and I said I don't think you have to pay for the weekend if it's closed. all right good next item item 29 2017 2018 comprehensive annual financial report motion to receive and file second by council member wyatt item 30 linwood lafayette urban development action area designation motion to send the legislation city planning board my customer white i'm 31 submitted resumes for vacancy of city controller motion sent to committee of the whole uh second by council member wingo and we will be announcing by the end of the week when those interviews will be held Item 32, items returned to city clerk by mayor. Motion to receive and file items 32 through 39. Second by council member Fontana. Item 40, SEQR, neg, dec, 85, Linwood. Motion to adopt items 40 and 41. Second by Councilmember Fierlittle. Item 42, problems with snow removal in Buffalo. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item 43, continued program eligibility requirements, National Flood Insurance Program. Motion to send to legislation. Second by President Pro Temp Scantley. Petitions item 44, special use 503, Delaware. Motion to send legislation to City Planning Board items 45 and 44 and 45. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Committee, civil service, item one, appoint police captain. Motion to approve items number one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, and eight. Seconded by the majority leader. Item nine, notice of appointment temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by the majority leader, Rivera. Finance Committee, Item 10, I.O. Solutions Renewal Agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 11, Western New York Polygraph Services. Motion to approve 11 and 12. Second by Councilmember White. Item 13, Bond Resolution. These bonds have properly aged in committee, so now we can move the bonds. Motion now to approve 13 through and including... Item number 35. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. There's going to be one more bond that has to age, and we'll be able to do that at the next meeting. Okay, good. Legislation Committee, item 36, special use, 1356 Maine. Motion to approve. Seconded by the Majority Leader. Item 37, special use, 1199 Kensington. Motion to deny with cause as submitted by the District Council Member. Council member second by councilman wide who has a floor and denial is based on UDL section 11 point 3 point 3 e24 all right All right, thank you, sir, thank you To do your job 138 zoning map of eminence portion 85 Linwood motion to approve so Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 39, food store license 290 Walden. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 41, restaurant dance license 2422 South Park. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 41, City of Buffalo Living Wage Commission raising the City of Buffalo Living Wage. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Claims Committee, item 42... including 64 motion to approve item number 42 through item number 46 second by councilman front and I'm 47 the state of Isaac Parker You said 42 to 46. Okay. Motion to approve items 47 through 64. Oh. Second by Councilmember Fontana. We thought you were changing up or something, saving us some dollars. Item 65, claims committee agenda for February. Okay. Motion to receive and file say goodbye council member go along Education Committee item 66 increased Buffalo police patrols at schools We're going to adopt items 66 through 68 second by council. Oh, you can't second your second by council member friends That I know where's the floor? I'm not with her today. Thank you. Mr. President. Could we kindly reconsider item 41 living wage commission and Legislation Committee We'll put that so the empty agenda to revisit all of it. We had received and filed that but after consultation with Mr. Wyatt, could we rescind receiving file and table it instead? All right. Make a table? I would make the motion. Are you asking to recommit? A motion to rescind the receiving file for item 41 in legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. And now motion to table item 41. To recommit it to the committee. To recommit to the committee. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Yeah, thank you very much. Next item. Item 69, concerns regarding safety of students on buses. Motion is to receive and follow item 69. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Resolutions. Item 46, bond resolution, Buffalo and Erie County Naval and Military Park. Motion to send finance. Second by Council Member Fierlo. Item 47, waive building permit fees for Buffalo Maritime Center. Motion to approve items 47 and 48. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 49, open government pledge. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 50, Ordinance Member Chapter 437, Taxi Cabs, Liveries, and Sightseeing Buses. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 51, Wave Feast for a Club 49ers Easter Egg Hunt. Motion to approve. Second. second by councilmember Golombic item 52 endorsement for Michigan Street Baptist Church project motion to adopt second by councilmember white 153 trailblazing sign for Irene Galt motion to send legislation. I miss 53 and 54 second by councilmember 155 Commissioner deeds Motion to adopt items 55 and 56. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, February 26th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, February 26th, 1 p.m. Committee on community involvement, Tuesday, February 26th, 2 p.m. Council Members, any announcements for your districts or others? All right. Council Member Wyatt. Just want to notify the residents of the University District regarding our Stop the Madness tournament that's going to be taking place this year, Saturday, March 2nd, at the Edwards-Saunders Community Center. You can get in contact with my office to register. We have two divisions, 5 to 18 and 9 to 12. This has been a great event that we've done. I want to thank my colleagues, Council President, as far as his brainchild in doing this, but it really gets to engage our young people and give them something active to do during March Madness. Yeah, and what happens is we wanted them to really know each other from different neighborhoods. I think it has worked well, and so thank you. All right, anything else before us? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilman.