And we're live. Floodplain. We are live. Corporation Council, I think your mic is open. All right, roll call. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Council Member Buhlmann. Present. Council Member Ferraletto. Here. Council Member Glumbach. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Prichard. Here.
 Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's pledge to our flag, pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you.
 Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner, who has a guest with us today. I do indeed have a guest with us, Consul President. Pastor Brett Cockrell, lead pastor, Renovation Church, 567 Hurdle here in the city. He's no stranger to many of you. He's been here. I know some of you have been with him on occasions for years now. Some of you remember back when he planted Renovation Church.
 at the Regal Cinema on Elmwood and even helped him, I know, in that endeavor as he was doing that and then taking over the campus that they now occupy. It is
 a pleasure to call him a friend, not just of many of us, but of myself and Debbie. This last Sunday, there we were, Breck and his wife, Gloria, Debbie and me, sitting in the pews, listening to Bishop Tommy Reed, 88 years old, the tabernacle. And I said to Breck, I'd love to have you come and pray for the Common Council on Tuesday. So it's a joy to welcome my friend, a friend of this city, a friend of many of ours, Pastor Brett Conkrell. Thank you, Pastor.
 Thank you, Al. I appreciate the invitation. It's always an honor. And welcome all of the council members and the president, council member Darius Pridgen, my good friend, and my own, my neighbor and my council member here in Northwest, Joe. And Joe, my condolences. We've been praying for you and your family and
 and know that you've been going through a difficult time. So, well, I know pastors are supposed to be brief. So let me just go ahead and pray for us today. It's my honor to be able to do so. Father in heaven, we come before you today and we are grateful that we can. Father, you are an amazing God who understands the big and the small.
 And Father today, thank you that we could come before you still today in such an important meeting as this and still call upon you for guidance and for help and for wisdom. Lord, thank you for the leadership of our city. Thank you for our mayor. Thank you for all that goes on behind the scenes that makes our city work and function
 Father, this group right here is extraordinarily important for the goodness of our city and for the well-being and for the flourishing of our city. Lord, thank you for every one of them. Lord, the areas of the city that you have given them to steward and to lead. Father, I pray that you would give them incredible insight and wisdom in their own neighborhoods, but also as they lead together our city.
 Father, we're grateful for the city of Buffalo. There are so many resources. There's so many things that are within our city. And Father, we know that the best is yet to come for our city. We really believe that. And we want a city that flourishes, Father, not just for some, but for all.
 And so, Father, today I pray as they go into the hard work of policymaking and overseeing all the details of our city, Lord, I pray that you would guide them and help them. I pray that you would give them favor in the areas, Father, that they need favor. And Father, we're grateful for that. Father, we speak this word from Isaiah, Father, it is so important for us to
 to understand this as it relates to leaders. Father, in Isaiah 1, verse 17, you say, learn to do what is good, pursue justice, correct the oppressor, defend the rights of the fatherless, and plead the widow's cause. Father, I am sure that everyone in this group has that at their heart. And Father, I pray that you would guide us
 in doing that very thing. Father, help us to know what it is to do good. Help us to pursue justice. Help us to correct those who need correcting. Help us to defend those who need defending. And Father, help us to advocate for those who need advocating. In your precious name we pray. Amen.
 Blessings, everyone. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor Cockrell. And thank you for what you do in our city. Of course, your church is always on the cutting edge. I remember when you had couches, I think some couches and chairs in the sanctuary. Buffalo News wrote on it. I know you still give out food even during church.
 in that you serve a very diverse congregation. And personally, I wanna thank you that during times in this city where there needed to be a voice of reason, especially during the recent protests about injustice, you were not silent and you did not just have a church in the middle of our city.
 of that city that was really going through a lot of emotions. You stood up and you went public and you gave your heart. And I know at times you were criticized for that, but I wanna say publicly and on the record that it is appreciated by tens of thousands of people who,
 who you not only minister to and maybe not know, but that you're right in these diverse neighborhoods and you didn't disappear. Thank you, Pastor Kyle. And I know Joe has spoke to you earlier or someone spoke to you earlier and was all glad that you were on. So I think it was your council member, Joe Glumbeck. So thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Y'all have a great afternoon. You also. Council members, memorials? Council member Joe Glumbeck.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I want to thank Breck for being here. He is my neighbor. We live a block or so away from one another. And I just looked out the window and I saw two plows go down my street. So if there were two down my street, that means there were four down Breck's.
 because they got to get to me. So that's a good omen. But I wanted to take this time to remember James Golombek. Actually, same spelling, but no relation to me. They were Riverside residents. So, yeah.
 lived in Riverside for quite some time when I was growing up as a kid. And sadly, late 60s, got COVID and passed away a few weeks ago. It was a surprise for everybody, but he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family, his friends. And there were still a lot of people in the Riverside neighborhood that remember him and his children and the good that they had done. Thank you, sir. Any others? Councilman Bowman?
 Thank you, Council President. Just wanted to take a moment to remember Joseph Haas Schreiter. He was a resident in the Lovejoy neighborhood and he was a city employee. He retired from the city in the 90s. So we're grateful for his service in the public works department.
 He was a family man and really his whole entire family was always working for our neighborhood and for the community. So we offer our condolences to the family. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any others? We remember, I'm sorry. Oh, I thought I saw another hand.
 We remember Joseph McKinnon, who was the father of our church administrator, Pastor Donata McKinnon. He was a retired Buffalo police officer, still held true to that and just believed in protecting people. A member of St. Martin de Porres Church.
 and also a part of Ella Robinson's singing group, The New Beginnings. As Father Ron Sajak, who stopped by the funeral, said he was a deep bass when he sang, but he loved his family. Another situation with COVID, and we are praying much for their entire family.
 Also a young lady who I participated in trying to locate recently and it breaks my heart I didn't know her. Never met her that I know of, Tiara Lott, 22 years old.
 And I want to thank those in the community, including Pastor Tim Newkirk, who really led in her family, a search party for her in the last few days. And so there's so many people in the city of Buffalo who gathered together to try to find her, to try to locate her.
 her remains were found recently wrapped up. And so we're praying a lot for that family because no one should have to go through that in their lives. So for those who have been named or not named, and of course, for those who have given their life for the freedom of our country or other countries since our last meeting, this council pauses for a moment of silence.
 Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the state meeting held on February 2nd, 2021 are approved. Council members, you have the late files. If we have any late files before us, you have the latest agenda of the meeting. Are there any objections to the late files?
 Seeing or hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to read an item. Majority Leader, are we going from the top? From the top, Mr. President. Okay, let me switch a screen over here. And we are from the top. Item number one, Bessemer Street easement for Mullenburg-Betz. Motion to send to item number one to CD and City Planning Board.
 Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 2, DDA extension for 167, 169, 170, Mastin. This item is open. Council Member Wingo? Yes, this item is for the church over on, I believe, Grace. Commissioner of the church wants to put a parking lot. So I'm going to ask you, Council President, how you feel about that since it's kind of next door to you.
 And I apologize. The maston for grace. Oh, you know, for church with the parking lots, I'm fine with a council member only because it relieves parking in those neighborhoods when the churches are in. Because I have the same thing with King Solomon holding his church when they do it. So I think whenever we can get traffic off of the streets, it's a great thing. Yep.
 All right, so I would recommend that we give them the designation. However, I'm not sure this is in Mastin, though, even though it's on Mastin. I'm not sure why it said that, but it's okay. But what I appreciate, it's right around the corner from us.
 It is. It's literally right there. So I got a little confused when he said it, but thank you for the courtesy of asking just in case it was in. Absolutely. I appreciate it. But yeah, I mean, so I don't have a problem if you don't, so we can approve it. Well, it's an approval out of elegance. I think it was just when somebody from staff saw Mastin, they probably assumed it was Mastin. So, but again, thank you for the courtesy. Motion to approve.
 Motion to approve second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council Member Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number three, DDA extension for 422 and 426 Williams. This item is open. That's fine to approve. Motion to approve items three and four. Motion. Mr. President. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Golombet. Yeah, thank you. The Thompson Street property, I want to thank the real estate department and the law department for
 There's several properties on the street that have been problematic over the years. And we worked with, unfortunately, it's an investor. I would prefer a homeowner like we have Alyssa over on Eckerd Street. But, you know, I'm just happy to have this property being looked at.
 And I want to make sure I believe that there are conditions that certain things have to be done within a timely fashion in order for this individual to be able to purchase and own the property. But I want to thank the real estate department for working with my office and with me.
 the investor to take a problem property and hopefully turn it around. And we all know that sometimes there's only that one house on a block or on a street that ends up causing trouble, you know, for that entire area. Well, this was one of those few properties in the historic Black Rock neighborhood. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Glombeck. Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember White? Yes. Item number 5, Report of Sale 89 Doris. Motion to send to City. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 6, Report of Sale 330 Hewitt. This item is open. Councilmember White?
 Oh, it says without rec. Councilmember Wyatt? Yeah, motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number 7, December 2020 cash flow report summary. Motion to send the finance item 7 through 11. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 12, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item 13, permission to accept funds and enter into agreement, bridge New York agreement. Motion to approve items 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 18, 19, 20, and 20. 22nd by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Glombeck. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item 21, appoint laborer two. Motion to send the civil service items 21 through, you can scroll up through 29. Second by Councilmember Golumbik. Item 30, notice of appointment laborer two seasonal. Motion to receive and file items 30 through 33. Second by Councilmember Ferlotto.
 Item 34, appoint firefighters. Motion to send civil service items 34 and 35. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item 36, tire handler license 1255 Bailey. Motion to send the legislation item 36 and 37. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 38, second quarter gap 2020-2021. This is a late file.
 We can send it to finance or any questions. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 39, CAIL contract extension. Motion to approve items 39 and 40. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Glumbach. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes.
 Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item 41, amended certificate of appointment, appoint supervising hearing examiner. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Ferland. Item 42, EAP child and family services. Motion to approve. Second by council member Nowakowski. Council member Bollman? Yes.
 Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 43, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval.
 Motion to receive and file item 33 and 44. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 45, appoint legislative aid. Motion to adopt. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item 46, traffic concerns. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 47, monthly City Hall incident report. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember White.
 Item 48, request to refuse to suspend vehicle registrations. Motion to send the legislation items 48 and 49. Second by Councilmember White. Item 50, meetings transcriptions. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Freeland. Item 51, information on COVID. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 52, update on single-use plastic foam ban. Item's open.
 Majority Leader, this will be received and filed. All it is is a kind of update. People have been calling and writing, especially some organizations, about where we were with the Styrofoam ban for single takeout for restaurants. And I think that at a time when restaurants are already suffering and that some of the alternatives are going to be more expensive.
 that although I still, and I wanna be clear, believe in our environment and cleaning up our environment during a pandemic and when restaurants are suffering, I just wanted to put it on record that we have not forgotten about this legislation. It's just not the right time.
 when we are trying to keep our restaurants open, when we are doing everything on this council to accommodate them who have really been hard hit. And it, to me, would just be tone deaf right now to just say, we're gonna go through with legislation that may cost restaurants a little bit more when they've really been tough.
 So we can receive and file this. The law is still, you know, we still have the resolution to have the law written. But at this time, I don't feel comfortable in moving forward with that. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Joel Fairletter. Item 53, Special Use Permit 682, Abbott. Motion to send legislation to the Board, Items 53 through 55. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 Submissions list, civil service. Item number 1, certificate of appointment system analyst. Motion is to approve items 1 and 2. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto. Yes. Councilmember Glumbach. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo.
 Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 3, appoint Superintendent of Communications. Motion is to receive and file items 3 and 4. Second by Council Member Fioreletto. Finance. Item number 5, bond resolution. Motion to approve items number 5 through and including 30. Second by Council Member Bowman. Council Member Bowman? Yes.
 Council member Ferreira. Yes. Council member Golan back. Yes. Council member Noakowski. Yes. Council president president. Yes. Council member Rivera. Yes. Council member Scanlon. Yes. Council member Wingo. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes. Community Development, item 31, Common Council vaccine equity response. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Ferreira.
 Resolutions. Item 56, set public hearing regarding easement of a portion of Bessemer. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 57, inquiry into BPD interaction with bail enforcement agencies. This item is approved.
 Thank you, Council Member. Thank you, Majority Leader. I can't speak on specifics of any case, and I know Ms. Gordon is on, and she will stop me right away, because we do have a situation in which the city has been filed with papers of a lawsuit. So my comments are general.
 This is really a concern to find out what are the federal, state, and local laws as it pertains to bail bondsmen.
 whether it's in the city of Buffalo or from a different city and also what our police policy is. From what I understand, and I know this resolution is just being if we if we send this to legislation, which is what I am asking for to be instead of police oversight. Because I think that this is something that we need to immediately know so that if there
 are any policies that need to be made or if there are policies there that we are made aware if they need to be changed. And I don't know if Corporation Council had a chance to look at any of our current policies. And if not, we'll send it.
 Yeah, Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon. I did not look at any of the Buffalo City, City of Buffalo policies because Bales-Bonds, man, as it relates to the license has nothing to do with the City of Buffalo. It's really regulated by New York State Department of Licensing.
 And so the most I know we do is provide space for those who are providing that service right through the last legislation you did a couple years ago. But outside of that, the city does not have anything that they do specifically. And the space you're talking about, the car, like where they park. Right.
 exactly yeah so i think that this is so important because um and if it's regulated by the state of new york i would not want to see a bail bondsman uh be able to go into a private home without having some type of due diligence um because my my fear is if someone told a bail bondsman uh that um
 someone they were looking for is in one of our houses, in a citizen's house where they weren't, making sure that bail bondsmen cannot simply just go into a home. A police officer has to have a warrant, which means they have to go before a judge. They have to give some type of cause.
 At the end of the day, I would hate to see, I mean, this is not television. This is not any network. People shouldn't just be able to go into individuals homes. And again, for the record,
 We are not talking about any one particular case, and especially not anything that is before our city as far as a lawsuit. However, overall, I think it should be a concern to everyone whether or not a bail bondsman has the authority
 to enter a private residence that doesn't belong to someone whom they are looking for or have credible evidence and who are they supposed to give that credible evidence to. So if we could have something, corporation council, sister corporation council for our Tuesday legislative meeting, as much as you can find, it will be greatly appreciated.
 Council, I mean, Majority Leader, if we could just send this to ledge so that we can get some quick action on this. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 58, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 58, 59, and 60. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 61, Salary Ordinance Admin and Finance. Motion to approve items 61 and 62. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? He mouthed yes. I think he's trying to come off mute, but he's having a- Yes. Sorry. Yes. It's fine.
 Clerk, did you go? I believe that's the last item. All right. That's approved. Any announcements clerk? Council President? Yes. Can we go back to number 40 parking? Number 40 in the regular agenda? Yes. Majority Leader? We can revisit item number 40. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Can we send that to the committee before we approve it?
 What committee did you have? Community Development. To Community Development? Yes. You want to rescind the motion to approve? Yes. Rescind the previous motion. Rescind the motion to approve, second by Councilmember White. Motion is now to send to State. Second by Councilmember White. Thank you. Not a problem. Announcements?
 Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Committee on civil service Tuesday, February 23rd at 945 a.m.
 Committee on Finance, following civil service at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, February 23rd at 1 o'clock p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, February 23rd at 2 o'clock p.m. Special Committees, Committee on Education, Tuesday, February 23rd at 11 o'clock a.m. Councilmember, any announcements for your districts? All right, hearing none.
 Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Joseph Golombet. Thank you.