Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Aki. Majority Leader Rivera. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Mr. Stamk, Council Member Scanlon will be introducing one of the Boy Scouts. We'll be doing our pledge.
 Oh, he doesn't want to be introduced? All right. One of our, well, what is the troop at least for the record? Troop 5-6. Troop 5-6. Troop 5-6 from the South District. You can lead us in the pledge. To the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one
 As we remain standing, our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Council President. For those of you who might not know Karen, you're in for a treat in a few moments because she's going to fill this hall in a wondrous way. Deb and I have journeyed with her for many years, and what a treat that will be. Prior to that, a verse that all of you are well familiar with if you've been to a wedding any time in the last 50 years.
 first corinthians 13 the love chapter of the bible is often quoted during wedding ceremonies and the very last verse of that chapter says and now these three remain faith hope and love the greatest of these is love follow the way of love thought of a couple of things as i was thinking about those verses the city of good neighbors is a better city when we love each other
 Good neighbors are better neighbors when love is extended across the street. Usually what forces us to help our neighbor is horrible winter weather. Thank God we've not had that opportunity much this year. But we can be loving even when circumstances are good and pleasant and easy, easier than they've been in years in the past for sure. The call here to love...
 but also to faith and hope. Several years ago, the council president will remember, some of you who've been on the council will remember, I presented the idea of beginning to look in each of our nine districts for signs of hope and life. You'll have to read very far to find the signs of things not going well in many of the,
 media sources and other online publications will remind you of all that, but what are the signs of hope and life in each and every one of your districts? What are the things that we can begin to celebrate together? We sometimes as a council come together to problem-solve,
 could we come together and also think about the good things that are happening in each of our districts for the residents that are there when i taught a class for niagara university every assignment at the end of every session was the same every student was to go out for the next seven days and look for signs of hope and life in our city i want you to start getting your eyeballs adjusted to think about hope
 and life as it is around us, and then to begin processing together an excitement for what's coming, not a dread for oftentimes what goes wrong and the problem-solving that has to happen. City of good neighbors, faith, hope, and love, let's pray. Father, thank you for your goodness. Thank you, Father, for these wonderful words penned by the Apostle Paul that are so often quoted in wedding ceremonies.
 Faith, hope, and love. Lord, I thank you that this is a city of good neighbors, but make us better neighbors, loving neighbors, helpful neighbors, serving neighbors. Lord, I pray the same for each of the nine council members. I pray, Lord, that they will be people of faith, hope, and love as they reach out and extend themselves on behalf of the citizens of Buffalo and especially of their council district.
 And then, Lord, begin helping readjust our eye spectacles, our eyeglasses, our eyewear, so that we see signs of hope in life, signs of good things that are bubbling just below the surface and maybe even some above the surface now. Give us those eyes that really celebrate in each of our districts signs of faith, hope, and your love. And we thank you, Father, for your powerful presence, your powerful presence amongst us today.
 In your son's name, amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Councilmember's memorials. Councilmember Golombek.
 Thank you, Mr. President. The Black Rock neighborhood is saddened with the passing of Mrs. Dombrovsky, Helen Dombrovsky, 91 years young, a wonderful lady. I used to belong, before the church was closed, I used to belong to the same parish as her and her husband. And I found out an interesting story. Her and her husband were married in 1950, and they were one of the first mixed marriages in Black Rock Riverside.
 Her husband was a Polish Catholic. She was an Irish Catholic.
 He had belonged to St. Florian's church, she had belonged to St. John's church. And, you know, we sometimes think, you know, in a modern sense of like, you know, the, what a mixed marriage is, but in 1950 I was told by some of their friends that that was like a real big thing, for the Polish guy to go down the street and marry in an Irish Catholic church. So it's wonderful and funny how times have changed, and Helen is going to be very sorely missed by her family and her friends.
 Any others? We have, hearing none other, we have two soldiers or two who have given their life for the freedom of our country and the freedom of others since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for the names that have been called for a moment of silence. I'm going to ask that you remain standing as Councilmember Wingo introduces his guest, the guest who is here for today. Thank you.
 We are delighted this morning to have with us Mrs. Karen Saxon, who is one of the most phenomenal musicians, artists, and singers in the city of Buffalo. She is renowned all across the city of Buffalo, but not just the city of Buffalo, but all across the state of New York, as well as this entire country. She is one of the first African-American females to sing for the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra.
 in the history of the Buffalo Public Schools. And we are delighted to have her here today during our celebration of black history and the contribution of Africans in America to the United States of America, celebrating all of their
 contributions to this country and just to ensure that we are always reflecting on what made us who we are today, the rich diversity of our country, the rich diversity of this city of Buffalo. And here today we have Mrs. Saxon to sing one of our favorite songs in the African American community, which is the African American National Anthem. Thank you.
 Let our rejoicing as the leaves in the sky, let it resound. Sing a song full of the faith that the dark past has taught us. Sing a song full of the hope that the present has brought. Facing the rise of a new day, let us march on till victory.
 Thank you. I was told I could do another for which you don't have to stand. I don't want to break protocol, but if standing is a challenge, this might be a good time to not do it. All right.
 And you can be seated. Thank you. As you are seated, I am delighted to be looking at Councilmember Golumbek, who may not remember me, but he was my history teacher at Buffalo State when I was pursuing my bachelor's degree. And you did an amazing job of teaching me who I am and what happened that led to what I'm able to do. So thank you, sir.
 the selection that I would like to offer in tribute to every African American who is in classical music is the Margaret Bonds arrangement unaccompanied of the Negro spiritual he's got the whole world in his hands and Margaret Bonds is an african-american female composer he's got his hand he's got the whole world in his
 In his hand he's got the woods and the waters.
 He's got the world in his hand. He's got the birds and the bees right in his hand. He's got the birds and the bees right in his hand. He's got the beasts of the field right in his hand. He's got the whole world in his hand.
 He's got you and me right in his hand. He's got you and me in his hand. He's got every boy in his hand. He's got you in his hand. He's got you in his hand.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on February 4th, 2020 are approved. You have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to any of the late files, we'll hear the entire agenda. That is before it's not taken away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review one. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Council President, on a motion to take item 55 out of resolutions, out of order. Second by Council Member Feraletto.
 Item is B, forest. Council Member Wingo has the floor. Thank you Mr. Chair. Today we are here to adopt the resolves to a resolution that was brought to my office by the leaders, the forebearers, the forefathers and mothers who have their spirit, and our grandparents and aunts and uncles, to make history here in the city of Buffalo.
 I am pleased to do their will, as in this chambers right above us is inscribed in stone, the will of the council reflects the will of the people. And we are here today to ensure that the will of the people is heard as relates to their contributions and their civic duty over all of these years here in the city of Buffalo.
 Today, I'm here representing the Mastin District in the City of Buffalo, speaking on behalf of all of the constituents and the Block Club leaders, many of which are here today, just to share in this moment as they are looking to rename one of the staples in the Mastin District after a sitting elected official.
 Now we understand that this is something that has been done posthumously. This is something that has been done after a person has left elected office. But what resonated with me is the fact that they let me know in no uncertain terms that the reason they would like to see this is because they understand their words that the sun may be setting on them. And they want to make sure they honor
 the councilman, Mayor Byron W. Brown, he was councilman at the time, who was the facilitator of constructing a building in the east side, on the east side of Buffalo, in the Maston District, to ensure that children had somewhere to go to play, to ensure that seniors had somewhere to go to congregate, to ensure that we had space that could be used for various things, to ensure that there was a safe...
 space that people could come together in the city of Buffalo to ensure that that was erected while he was council member elected twice and then onto the state Senate elected for two terms. And now as the city of Buffalo's first African American mayor for the city of Buffalo for four terms, the mayor of the city of Buffalo, Byron W. Brown had already made history, but the seniors,
 The leaders, those whose shoulders we stand on, they are looking now to little old me to ensure that we put the person that they put in office over 20 years ago, the person that we've all elected to lead this city for four terms, they're looking to little old me
 to ensure that we memorialize his name by putting it on that hub in our community that represents peace, hope, love and prosperity as this is the place as even the director, the current director is here today to witness in this occasion that we renamed this building after the first African American mayor in the city of Buffalo. My children know no other mayor.
 And they can look now at this man and say that if we can have an African-American mayor, we can have an African-American governor in the state of New York, we can have an African-American as the president of the United States, the sky is the limit. And for those folks who say that what has he done, look at the building that his name is going to be on. That's what he's done. And for the folks who don't believe that he's deserving of this, there's a letter that was written that actually it serves as the intent for the renaming of this building.
 There are several names on this list, including business owners, pioneers of various industries. We have educators on this list. We have entrepreneurs on this list. We have block club presidents on this list. We are trying to do what they ask us to do. Again, if I could say it one more time, the will of the council reflects the
 the will of the people. This is not my idea. This is not something that I wanted to do, but this is something that I was asked to do. And because they asked me to do it, who am I to say no? Therefore, because they all came together, they organized. I want to get this really, really clear. The community organized. The community came to my office and asked for the technical assistance, and we provided that assistance.
 They had every opportunity since the summer of last year They have been coming together every stakeholders meeting to ensure that everyone who had an opportunity To speak on this issue had an opportunity to speak and then again after they've come back to me and they have explained how they've gone Through the process they organized they initiated the the the what's necessary to get to where we are today then I came to each one of my colleagues and
 And I asked every single one of my colleagues, if you would all sign on to this, and every one of you, and I want to say to this morning, thank you for helping me advance what my community has asked me to do, as it has been unanimous that we rename the Delavan Grider Center after Mayor Byron W. Brown. Now, with that, Mr. Chair.
 I'm going to turn it back over to you and and prayerfully the pushback isn't too much unbearable. But we are pleased and again for the community's information and I'm not trying to give a lesson on civics but the mayor is not our boss. We are equal partners in government.
 Except there's nine of us and one of him. He was the executive branch. We run the Common Council the legislative branch of government I don't benefit at all from
 whatsoever from renaming the structure after Byron W. Brown. But this is, again, the will of the people, those folks who have blazed the trails for us, those of whom's shoulders we stand on, those are the ones who we're doing this for because they asked us to. And again, with that said, Mr. Chair, I'm going to turn it back over to you. Thank you for this time. Thank you, Council Member Wingo. We have to have a public...
 hearing that would be advertised um for for the name change i know you know so we have to send this to the committee um as a whole item and we can send that letter also when you get to that item if you'd like to so from if i'm understanding correctly
 We cannot adopt the resolves at this time. Legislative Council? I have a Corporation Council. Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon. At this time, the resolves are not in a form that should be adopted because it asks for the name change, and it asks that a document be sent to the clerk's office and have the name change effectuated right away.
 We cannot do a name change according to Section 286 without a public hearing. So we would be kind of jumping the gun in a way by having the Clerk's Office go ahead and effectuate that change without having the public hearing. So at this time I think it will be perfect to set the date for the public hearing and send this item to the Legislative Committee and there during that time after the public hearing we can decide what it is that you would like to do then.
 All right, so since since we're on this issue this office has made several We've communicated with with with the various offices to ensure that everything was in line and informed So as far as the community is concerned This was not something that I was anticipating and for all of the community who came out today. I apologize as There's always some type of new development out of my hands clearly
 This is not what they came here to hear and unfortunately This is going to be sent to committee without any movement on the resolves So again, just to to all of my constituents who who are here This is this is this is out of my hands right at this moment so
 We will move forward with whatever process is presented so that you all can have what you all asked me for. Is that okay?
 it so and so that everybody understands the corporation council just looked up to make sure so it's the process that happens for the renaming of all city buildings it's not anything new if there was a mistake made we will look back to find out where that mistake was made but at this time it looks like that public hearing because it has to be advertised would be on march the 17th at two o'clock uh during
 Council meeting on March the 17th because by law it has to be advertised but the process has been started by the council member in the correct way of bringing the resolution there was a letter of intent
 letter of intent that was received by the council and that was filed so that is the process and then the last part of the process would be the March 17 2020 meeting because it has to have a public hearing so what is the just for all of our sake so we understand what's actually happening here today what constitutes notification for a public hearing does it have to be filed with the city's right is the question
 So, Councilmember Wingo, to clarify, you are correct with the renaming of the resolution you put forth, so it will be adopted because that's the intent for us now to call a public hearing for the renaming. So I don't want my folks to be confused because now I'm getting confused and I don't want this to be a huge deal. But did you just say that it will be adopted? Yes, because this is calling for us. You're sending a resolution for the city clerk to then call for the renaming of the Delavan Grider Center.
 Okay, then moves it to where we then will have the public care which will be at the next meeting Which not the next one to follow on March 17th because we have to publish it for two weeks So nothing basically changed outside what I've originally asked for correct. So, okay I'll let it so foot so for my folks who are here the master residents We will adopt the resolves which calls for the public hearing as it is written at as late as it is laid out in
 And moving from there, we will go to that public hearing during committee, and then we will come back here and adopt it. So the hearing can be whatever, whenever, for whatever. The hearing will be, Councilmember, March 17th at 2 p.m. So it has to happen at a Common Council meeting. Well, we're voting on it today. We're adopting the results today.
 This is to call for the rename, and this is not the actual voting item for the rename. And your resolution you put forth will then have the name to go to Mayor W. Brown Community Center. Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon, Council Member Scanlon is asking if there's another item that came with it. That is the notice of intent. Yes, there is a notice of intent that came with this document. And that is basically what triggers the whole action, the resolution and everything.
 to actually have our set note at public hearing that's going to be scheduled on the 17th. So we have notice of intent. We have Council Member Wingor's resolution asking that we move on it, and I think everything should be set moving forward for the 17th of March. So are we sending the entire item to committee, or are we adopting the resolves? Easy question.
 I would say we'll defer to what the clerk's office suggested. So, clerk, are we adopting the resolves or are... Yes, adopt the resolves. The Senate will remain under the CD. So nothing changed? Correct. Thank you. Mastin, congratulations. Oh. Thank you. So, so, just...
 just so we're clear you still have to have the public hearing then it's voted on formally to make the name change so i just want to be clear i know it sounds confusing it is the the way that the law is written so that the public hearing would occur
 then the council is going to vote on the floor to then for the renaming. So that just so that everybody is clear. And this isn't the council trying to hold up anything. We just got to follow the law because if we do it any other way, it could be challenged in a court of law and there would be, there would be no naming possibly for a while. All right. Do you want to move the other item while we're here or are you okay? Okay.
 The letter, did you want to send that when we get to it? Okay. Motion is to adopt the resolves and send the remainder to Community Development Lawyer. And a public hearing will take place on March 17th at 2 p.m. Thank you, sir. Seconded by Council Member Wingo, who has labored on this and thought it wasn't going to happen. But we move it. All right. Thank you, sir. From the top. Item number 186, St. Joseph Amendment. Motion to send a Community Development.
 Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, local landmark 401 Clinton Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number three, report a sale 120 Colorado. Motion to send items three, four, and five to community development. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number six, report a sale of 625 Utica East. Motions to approve.
 Second by Council Member Fira Leto. Item number seven, rescind the sale of 447 Berkshire. Motion to receive and file items seven and eight. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number nine, certificate of determination 2020A bonds. Motion to receive and file items nine, 10, and 11. Second by Council Member Golumbik. Item number 10, certificate of necessity. Second by Council Member Williams.
 Motion to receive and file items 10 and 11. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item number 12, A.C. Moody's Bond Rating Report. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Public Works, item number 13, Contract Renewal for Gardenville Parkways. Motion to approve items 13 through and including item 18. Seconded by Council Member Feraletto.
 Item number 19, permission to accept donation for canine vests. Motion to approve items 19 and 20. Second by Councilmember Colombo. Item number 21, appoint firefighters. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number... Who has the floor? Can we go back to number 16 please? Um, motion is to revisit item number 16, second by Councilmember Ferraletto. The item is before us. I just wanted to go back for Corporation Council. This is a template.
 Do we need to approve a template? This is not an actual agreement, is it? Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon. This discussion was had before and all agreed that because this is what we'll be moving forward with. The agreement is to allow DPW to use this in all the future contracts and negotiations
 fire optic individuals that might be coming to have agreements with the city in the future. So yes, in this case, we need to approve it and what we approve would be what DPW will be using in all those negotiations. Okay. So it's lawful for us to approve a template even though it's not attached to any type of agreement as of now? So it'd have to come back to us to approve? Yes. So whatever additional
 negotiations that probably will take place once that template is handed over to the next party if there's anything that the council needs to approve that would come back to the city to Common Council but as it stands what you're approving is a document the intentions
 the ground basically the you know for what the city would like um its agreements to look like when entering into negotiation with these fire optic
 businesses or so forth so there's nothing wrong with to with approving the template in the format that it's in right now so no matter who it is when they come when we actually go into negotiation we agree we agree that this is the problem it will still come back to us yes okay that's it thank you all righty just comes from members so then any individual um
 Provider would have to come back with their own contract then for us for approval if there's any changes to be made to it if Let's say and a different entity does not agree and they want something change and you know DPW consider it to be Reasonable that would have to come back to the Common Council for an amendment So if there's so if they just put their name on this contract as it is would that still have to come back to us? I
 No, if the contract remains as is, as we approved right now, then they don't need to come back to us unless there's addition state. It's final, it's done, because we agree that DPW can use this document that we've reviewed, we've vetted, we have agreed. I think we've made changes pursuant to Council Member Fontana on this document. So we're saying that this document at this moment in time is good enough.
 you know, for DPW to act on. Have we done that with anything else? Because I'm just concerned, because this is like giving someone a blank check. It's like, okay, you can go ahead and you can negotiate with whoever, but wouldn't we still want to see the final, who the check is going to? Because this is a template. This is actually not agreement.
 with any particular organization right now? Well, remember all the contract agreements, right? It's not the agreement. This is the template that we're moving forward. But the final contract agreement that would probably have probably 50, 60 additional pages has to be approved to form by the law department. So the law department will be looking at the entire document before it's approved, and all approved to form document has to come back to the Common Council for its final stamp.
 So the Common Council is going to see it again. It's just that the template that we approved today is a template that we're saying is good to move forward on all similarly related agreements. Okay. So I just want to be clear. We're going to get...
 get no matter who it is we're gonna get this document back we're gonna get an entire contract back that would have to be approved to form by the city by the City Law Department okay thank you and I'm sorry councilmember I didn't I didn't understand the question either but yes we would it has to come back to us this just allows them to move forward yep good deal
 Next item. Item number 22, Appoint Assistant Corporation Council 2. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 23, full store license 1614 Jefferson. Motion to send items 23 through and including item 29 to legislation. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 30, response to leasing of police vehicles. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. City Clerk, item number 31, liquor license notice.
 Motion to receive and file items 31 through 31 and 32. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 33, notices of appointment, temp provisional permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member White. Miscellaneous, item number 34, request to rename the Delavan Grider Community Center. Motion to send to community development. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 35, monthly city hall incident report.
 Motion to receive and file items 35 and 36. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 37, Buffalo Maritime Center.
 Motion to send to Community Development and Strategic Planning. Seconded by Council Member Golombek, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. If you have not been anyone here to the Buffalo Maritime Center on Arthur Street, I would encourage you to stop by. It's, you know, we hear in the newspaper and on the media about the renaissance that's in Buffalo, and I'm still skeptical, but what I will say is that, you know, there are,
 are little mini renaissances that are taking place in our districts and 90 arthur street is one of them they're teaching young boys and girls how to build boats how to do woodworking and this is a proposal to purchase some land behind them so that they could actually plant a tree farm and they would be able to be completely self-sustaining and once again it's open to the public and i think this is a great addition for that neighborhood thank you
 Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 38, stop the violence headquarters. Motion to send to community development. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 39, cease and desist letter to Honorable Darius G. Pridgen. Motion to send the legislation. And just for clarification, it isn't a cease and desist letter to me. It is about another organization because the way it reads, it reads as if it's a cease and desist letter to me. It was addressed to me for a...
 A bar that wants to open up some comments they made. Next item. Item number 40, secret determination of type 2 action special use permit 289 Austin. Motion is to adopt items 40 through and including 44. Seconded by Council Member Feraletto. Item number 45, vinyl request repairs for 31 West Northrop. Motion to send items 45 and 46 to community development. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 47, special use permit 67 North Street.
 Motion is to send the legislation and the city planning board. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 48, Willer-Prett, petition for 520. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Golombic.
 Submission, civil service, item number one, appoint police officers. Motion is to approve item number one and number two. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number three, notices of appointment sent provision all permanent. Motion is to receive and file. Second by President Pro Temp, Scanlon. Finance committee, item number four, purchase of fleet leasing. Motion to approve items number four through 33. Through 34? Through 32. Second by council.
 VINCE SCALA. AYTEM NUMBER 33, CASH FULL, ACTUALS AND PROJECTION. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FILE ITEMS NUMBER 33 AND 34. SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER FIROLETTO. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT. AYTEM NUMBER 35, SAM HARBERT LETTER FOR MLK STATUE REMOVAL. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FILE. SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER WINGO. AYTEM NUMBER 36, TRANSFER 179 WEST MINISTER FROM BENLICK TO HABITAT FOR HUMANITY.
 Motion is to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Legislation, item number 37, special use, 193 Leroy Avenue. Second by District Council Member, who has the floor? The reason for the denial for this item at 193 Leroy is for the fact that this will disrupt the fabric of the community and the standards of the neighbors that have come to expect certain...
 commerce in the area. This is in a residential area and this special use would also Oversaturate this immediate area as only two blocks away the exact same type of store And we don't want to oversaturate the community So other than that the disruption as far as the traffic for the store and everything else We're going to deny based off of those terms. All right as stated by the councilmember for the record. I
 Next item. Item 38, special use 275 Oak for EMC. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Scala. Item number 39, special use permit 289 Austin. Motion to approve with conditions set forth by Councilmember Golumbik. Second.
 Council Member Gronbeck, who has the floor. Thank you. There were conditions that came from the Zoning Planning Board hearing, so I wanted those to be included as well as a one-year sunset clause. What my concern is is that some of the neighbors were concerned about this property becoming a bar property
 nightclub, whatever you want to call it, but it has been in the past. And the concern that I have is is that if we deny it and an article 78 was filed against the City of Buffalo it has the potential to remove any of the
 conditions that we could put onto it. So I think it saves the neighborhood. It helps the neighborhood more if we put these conditions on it rather than trying to deny it and simply a roll of the dice. Thank you, Mr. President.
 item number 40 special use 370 Seneca Street motion to approve item number 41 use car dealer 264 East Amherst motion is to receive and file items 41 through and including 44 item number 45 special use 16 South Hampton Street motion to deny
 The motion is to deny. So the motion is to deny, second by Councilmember Golombek. And for the record, the reason for the denial is because the applicant wrote a letter stating that he no longer wished to pursue it. So I know usually we have to make a decision on it. So next item. Item number 46, property manager license. Motion to approve. Thank you.
 Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 47, Restaurant Dance License, 875 Bailey Avenue. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Bowman, who has filed the conditions. Item number 48, Property Manager License. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Resolutions, item number 49, 2019 Lovejoy Halloween Parade Fee Waiver. Motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number 50 councilmember Rivera excuse for meeting motion is to adopt my comes from her what I don't number 51 speeding ticket data Motion is to send the legislation Can we approve it and send the remainder or adopted us in the remainder? Results. Yeah motion is to rescind the previous motion second by councilman What motion is now to adopt the resolves and send the remainder to legislation remember what I?
 Item number 52, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. Motion is to adopt items 52 and 53. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 54, a fee waiver for Madison District Easter Egg Con. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 56, Budget and Personnel Amendment. Motion is to approve items 56 and 57. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 58, submission of quarterly data of school speed zone cameras. Motion to send to legislation. So, my Councilmember Wyatt, who has the floor? Okay. Can we change that motion to adopt and send the rest to legislation? Sure. Motion is to rescind the previous motion. So, my Councilmember Traylor. Motion is now to adopt the resolves and send the remainder to legislation. So, my Councilmember Wyatt. We are also looking for additional amendments.
 legislation on this because again there's still confusion about these cameras a great deal of confusion regarding the signage regarding the speed regarding the times and so we have put forth with council staff to look into those additional things that are part of what we're trying to make sure that we make this process a lot simpler because right now there's still a great deal of confusion and i think if we would have taken the grace period we could have
 mitigated a lot of that but I think we still need to do further and putting the specific times throughout this district throughout the city so again people are aware what's going to happen I know the deacons are going up in some areas but it's not going up quick enough because people are still thinking that you're getting a ticket I got a ticket and it was on at 12 o'clock 1203 it was at a time when I was monitoring
 the speed at a certain school and it was you know it wasn't like it was 50 miles an hour but again these are times when children are in school safely people should not be getting tickets so we're going to continue to work with the administration on this thank you
 Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 59, transfer of funds, parks, golf courses, and recreation. Motion to approve items 59 and 60. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 61, waive permit fee for hurdle, North Park Youth Baseball. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golombek.
 Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service Tuesday February 25th 2020 at 9 45 a.m. Committee on finance file on civil service is Tuesday February 25th 2020 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday February 25th 2020 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development is Tuesday February 25th 2020 at 2 p.m. Council members any announcements for your districts? Question. Do we send 58 to ledge or do we just adopt?
 58, we adopt the resolves and sent the remainder to ledge. Okay, thanks. I just want to invite the residents of the University District to assist their young people. We're trying to form junior block clubs. This is a way for us to start transitioning our block club leaders who have been doing this for many years.
 we need to try to get some of those young people involved. So on Wednesday, February 26th, we're having a meet and greet for any young people who are interested in being junior block club leaders. It's going to be at the...
 KENZINGTON NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES 995 KENZINGTON THAT'S GOING TO START AT 6 PM IT'S JUST FOUR HOURS SO IF YOU'RE YOU HAVE A YOUNG PERSON WHO HAS SOME LEADERSHIP CAPABILITIES WE LIKE YOU TO BRING THEM HERE OR DIRECT THEM TO COME SO THAT WE CAN START CREATING THE COMMUNITY THAT OUR YOUNG PEOPLE CAN BE A PART OF AND DEVELOPING AND GROWING SECONDLY WE WANT TO INVITE YOU TO OUR QUARTERLY BREAKFAST THAT'S GOING TO TAKE PLACE
 at St. Lord's Church, Saturday, February 29th, from 9 a.m. to noon. Please RSVP our office, 8515165. And again, our hot breakfast we serve and our vision, University truly. Excuse me. That's it. Thank you.
 All right. Any other announcements? Councilmember Nowakowski. Just one more announcement, Council President. March 5th at 530 at 20 Herkimer Street, myself and Councilmember Rivera and Assemblyman Sean Ryan will be holding a census meeting because if...
 uh you're not counted you don't have a seat at the table and for every person not counted is almost equivalent to seventeen hundred dollars that this city loses in federal funding so it's imperative that everyone comes out and we realize um the tools that are available to be counted thank you noel kowski and congratulations on your street sign designation today and all the people who came out your first act of the council any other announcements
 No breakfast, no lunch, no nothing, no food. All right. Council Member Wingo, you got no breakfast, no lunch, no Easter. We already had our breakfast at our stakeholders meeting. And just so you know, the people are still full from that breakfast two weeks ago. Thank you very much. Motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member White. We are adjourned. Hey, Council Member Wingo. Corporation.