Council President Pridgen. I'm Keith. Council Member Rivera. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Come on, President. Let's stand for the pledge, which will be led by Troop Number 5, which is in Council Member Fierletto's district, who has invited the Boy Scouts to be with us today, and they will lead us in our pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, considering all of which it stands, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. And our, do we have our chaplain today? All right. Councilman Rivera, would you like to do the honors? You raised your hand, so. That mic isn't on, well, is it on? We got it. It was left to Rasheed and myself to find somebody, but somehow the ball was dropped. So it's either Rasheed or myself. The Reverend always talks about Buffalo and the great things that are happening, the renaissance that's happening in the city. And it goes without saying that much of what's happening cannot happen without divine assistance. So we thank God for the blessings. the good times that we're experiencing, the challenges that lie ahead. So we take this moment just to reflect and say thank you for the renaissance that's happening in the City of Buffalo and the good things that are happening, the things that we get to share with the residents in the City of Buffalo. Gracious Father, we humbly come before you to thank you for all of your benefits, for we know that all good things flow from you. We thank you for your guidance, your direction, your wisdom, Father God. We ask that you enlighten us every day so we can make good decisions in this hall. We give you all the glory and all the honor for all the good things that's happened. In your Son's name, amen. Amen. Amen. Now you can return back to being majority leader. We have so many choices now from Pastor Wingo, Pastor Rear, all the way up to Deacon Wyatt, I guess we'll make him a deacon. Council Member Zamora, Council Member Golombe. Thank you, Mr. President. We lost in the North District Black Rock area, we lost Philip McGee. I believe he was a World War II veteran, past commander of the American Legion on Amherst Street. All around just a good guy. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. Actually, Pat McDonald passed away. He was a friend of mine. He had a very sad accident in his house. He fell in a car. was killed. He's cousins to Mary and Mary O'Rourke and her brother, Paul McDonald, who we work with here. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by their family. One of my neighbors, Mr. Venti, Robert Santo Venti, passed away a couple of weeks ago. Went to school with his kids. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family, his friends, his church community. He was an active volunteer at Cardinal O'Hara High School. He's going to be very sorely missed.
 And...
 Our Wendy Noble that works with us, her mother passed away, Louise Ferrari, about a week ago. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by family and friends, and my condolences to Wendy and the family. Thank you, Mr. Lombet. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts and prayers the family of Mary Ann Corbett. Mrs. Corbett was born Mary Ann Bowen, the oldest of 10 children in South Buffalo. She was a lifelong resident. She graduated from Mount Mercy Academy and ultimately received a bachelor's and master's from D'Youville College, which she used to teach elementary education in the Buffalo public school system for 22 years. She was also a tireless volunteer at St. Martin of Tourist Church in South Buffalo and a devoted member and supporter of the Buffalo Irish Center. She was married to her husband David for 46 years. They have five kids, 14 grandchildren. And anyone that knew Mrs. Corbett knows that her family and her friends were the core of her existence and everything flowed from there. She was a tremendously nice woman, kind-hearted woman, and she's going to be extremely missed by her since then. Thank you, sir. Any other? Councilmember Beard. A great friend of the community, Juan Pesidoro, passed away last week. We had his funeral at Lombardo's. He was a gentleman whose sense of the word, he never had children, so he adopted his community He ran a radio program since I was a young kid. It's called . I think that anybody that's worked in this community has met Juan Texilor sometime or another. He's now with his wife in heaven, and we certainly send our sympathies to all of his family. Praying for the family of Kimberly Wilson, who was a church member, her family, and the loss of their grandmother. You know, there were so many posts that spoke fondly of her and how she blessed her children and grandchildren. And we pray for the family of their strength. Any others? The wife of the... Pastor Precious Thompson, who is, he's already deceased. I can't call their first name. Grew up, you didn't call adults by their first name, so I never really learned their first name. But it was the first church that I ever did revival at after becoming pastor of True Bethel. Little church, Their house still remains on the top of that church, but they were just great people and great Buffalonians. And she actually was in the nursing home high point for many years, and I went there to do the chapel in 2017, and she came in with her wheelchair, and she screamed so loud when she saw me that the nurses thought she was sick. And they ran and she said, my Reverend Bridget here. And she, my wife, would take her clothes. And so she passed this week and she'll be funeralized this weekend from the True Bethlehem Church. So many people have passed on, even those who we have not mentioned. And, of course, those who have given their life for our freedom and for the freedom of others all across the world. Since our last meeting, we pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. You may be seated. Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on February 6, 2018, approved. Gentlemen, all the late files I have before you are in the objections to the late files. Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us, and I'll take it away. You're right, as we come to an item, if you have not had a chance to review it, please. If it is a late file. All right, no special presentations. We might give the Boy Scouts a great gift, and they'll only be here for a little while. We'll see what happens. From the top. Item 1, submission of month report 311 calls for January. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fairleather. Item 2, Matt Urban Center, House of Hope. Motion to approve items 2 and 3. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 4, report of sale 105 QC. Mr. Chairman, I refer to Councilmember from Lovejoy. Motion is to approve. Motion is to approve. Second by the Councilmember from Lovejoy. Item 5, report of sale 59 and 61 Northland. Motion to send the CD, items 5 and 6. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 7, COA Pam G., Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Franczak. Item 8, Preservation Board Landmark 238, Carlton Street. Motion to send legislation to items 8 and 9. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba. Item 10, Interfund Loan Bicycle Master Plan Implementation Phase 1. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Brookton. Item 10, Interfund Loan Bicycle Master Plan Implementation Phase 1. Item 11, seasonal employees benefit eligibility audit. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 12, appoint assistant auditor. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 13, Cold War veteran exemption. Motion to send to legislation and corporation council. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 14, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 15. Who has the floor? I'd like to request that we waive the 45 days for the no standing on Tonawanda Street, please. Could you give me the item number? It would be the 18360. All right. Thank you, sir. So the motion is to waive the 24 hours? The 45 days. Motion is to waive the 45 days for serial number 11127. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 15, Buffalo History, Museum, Culture, and Recreational Easement. Motion to approve items 15, 16, and 17. Say my council member why I'm 18 changing contracts sidewalks no removal motion to send finance to my councilman front end 19 citywide tree management and planning motion to approve items 19 and 20 second back councilmember fear a little 21 a point associate account clerk motion to send the civil service items 2124 second my council member Golomba and 25 acceptance of donation for equipment and Motion to approve say my councilmember Wyatt and 26th point detective sergeant motion to send a civil service item 26 through 32 second that councilmember wingle and 33 point assistant corporation council one motion to send the civil service items 33 and 34 second my customer go on back 35 mobile food truck where is Benny CBO LLC? motion to send the legislation item 35 and 36 second by president pro-tune I Item 37, restaurant, dance, license, Buffalo Grand Hotel. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 38, restaurant, license, Ritchie Soul Food. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 39, appoint plumbing inspector. Motion to send the civil service. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 40, auction, scrap vehicles. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 41, second quarter gap. Motion to send finance. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 42, fire department obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve items 42 through 45. Seconded by Council Member Fia Leto. Item 46, does intention request to name bridges conveying Bailey Avenue Sheriff Thomas Higgins Bridges. Motion to receive and file items 46 through 45. 49 second by council member go on that 50 a point legislative assistant motion to adopt Second by council member friends in 51 notice of partners seasonal motion to receive and file items 51 item 51 second by council member friends at 52 notes of funds temporary provisional permanent motion to send the civil service to Second by Councilmember Golomba. Miscellaneous items, item 53, DEC Brownfield cleanup, 975 and 1005 Furman Boulevard. Motion to receive and file items 53 through 55. Second by Councilmember White, who has the floor? Revisit item number 55. Motion to revisit item 55. Second by Councilmember White. And can we send this to community development? What was the original motion? Thank you. we need to rescind the motion motion to rescind the motion to receive and file second by council member why thank you motion now to send this to cd cd motion to send the cd second by councilman white next side 156 response investigation of shindo management corporation motion to send the cd Okay, second by councilman for your limit 57 concerns denied positions and police and fire Motion to send civil service say my comes from a wing of petitions item 58 special use permit 1197 hurdle motion to send the legislation the city planning board items 58 through 62 Nope, we can go to 59 to 59. All right second by councilmember Fontana Item 60, concerns removal from fire eligibility list. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilman Fontana. Item 61, special use permit 1895 Clinton. Motion to send to Legend City Planning Board, item 61 and 62. Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item 63, concerns building at Jefferson. Motion to send to CD. uh second by council member wyatt committee civil service item one appoint street worker approve items number one through number seven second by council member wingler appointments temporary provisional permanent receiving file second by councilman franzak item nine appoint street worker Approved motion of second by president pro to finance committee item 10 brownfield cleanup 300 Ohio Street Motion to receive file saying my customer wife item 11 bond resolution bike master plan account if there's no objections We'll take 11 through and including item number 31 and now motion to approve My council member friends that community development item 32 report a sale to 16 Chelsea motion to recommit. I A second by Councilmember Revere. Item 33, permission to extend agreement with Wellness Institute at Apollo. Okay, on this particular item I met with Commissioner Stefaniak and Tom Terrapacki, and the motion is to extend three months. So the motion is to extend this contract. So this contract was for how long, Regent? One year. So are you amending not to extend it three months? Are you amending it that it would be a three-month contract? Because extending it would make it a year in three months as what's before is easy. Yes Okay So the motion then is to amend This item that it will reflect a three-month contract and for clarity not one year. Yes, and Oh, and to approve it. Yeah. All right. Seconded by Council Member Glumley. Legislation's going to be here in three months. Item 34, 23 Allen for Tavern. Item 34, approve with conditions that the establishment closes at 10 p.m. on weekdays and midnight on weekends. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 35, use 467 William. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 36, food store license 2082 South Park. That originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve with a one-year sunset. Seconded by the Majority Leader. Item 37, lodging house license 104 Richmond. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 38, ordinance amendment chapter 264, rental dwelling unit. Originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 39, appeal of preservation board denial 67 North Street. Motion to approve with conditions. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Fierletto. Item 40, lodging house license 4 Harbor Point Commons. 40, 41, and... And 42, motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. I just want to, on item 40, this is for Harbor Point Commons, and it's one of the first lodging house licenses that we received down in Waterfront Village. And the reason the applicant withdrew is because when inspections came out to inspect the property as a lodging house, Because they have three floors and I think the bedroom is on the third floor, they rejected it. Interesting, and we had this conversation about bed and breakfast, this same couple can now go to an air B&B and possibly be approved and now not have to pay all of the fees that they have to the city as a lodging house. So I think it's something we have to look into because this is exactly what people were complaining about in the past. It's just an end run. And then if I end run it, then I don't have to pay fees to the city and possibly not even. And I don't know how they work the taxes. I think we talked about it because the Airbnb, I don't think, has to have. Isn't that what we learned, the inspection? And by the way, so that nobody who's watching, I'm not against Airbnb, I use them, but I think that we have to have some fairness in this process when we talk about renting out homes. I just wanted to kind of put that on the radar, but the applicant withdrew. Next item. Item 43, used car dealer, 835 Sycamore. 43, motion to approve with conditions with a six-car limit. No cars parked on the south side of Sycamore Street, which was blocking the fire hydrant. No cars parked on Wilson Street, on the west side of the street, and the east side of the street. No trucks idling, and no unlicensed vehicles parked on city streets. With that... With conditions as stated by the District Councilmember, seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item 44, Special Use 1275, Broadway. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Freer-Leto. Before we go to 64, because we have the Boy Scouts with us, and I remember coming to Council, and they're just saying second, and I had no idea what was going on. So the reason... that I'm not even sometime looking up to see who would second it is because yesterday or if this were normal Tuesday, we have what's called caucus and the council members come to caucus and then if somebody objects in caucus to an item, then I would have already known so I wouldn't have them second it. But because no one objected that I'm aware of to any of these items, I'm able to go, we're able to go right through the agenda and then council members are able to speak. And I hope that we give you a copy of the agenda before you leave so at least you can then see what we covered here today. All right. Next item. Education Committee, item 45, homeschool funding request. Motion is to receive item number 45. Seconded by Council Member Frenzel. Resolutions, item 64, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilman Golombet. Item 65, Olmstead Color Run. Motion to approve. Item 65 and 66. Second by Councilman Fairletter. Item 67, Bond Resolution, Public Art Monument Restoration. Motion to send to Finance. Item 67 and 60 through 69. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 70, OFW Neighborhood Parade Fee Waiver. Motion to approve. Item 70... 71 and 72 and 73. All right. So second by Council Member Golombet. I'm sorry. Council Member Golombet, Council floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Item number 71 is a resolution hoping to rectify a situation that I found out that we have here in the city. From time immemorial, according to state law, my understanding is that you have to notify the city clerk's office in order to have a dangerous pothole or a condition in front of your house. And when the 311 line came out, one call does it all, I was under the understanding, as I think many, many people in the city of Buffalo were, and perhaps my colleagues as well, that by calling 311 that you were complaining about a dangerous spot. in the city of Buffalo. Well, much to my surprise, I found out that some people who had had some problems hitting potholes in my district were being denied because the item in question had been called into 311, but it had never been filed with the clerk's office. And I'm not blaming anybody. I think this was just a mistake that occurred. But the reality is that this one call isn't. solving all and so what this resolution does is it calls on 3-1-1 to whenever they get a dangerous pothole or location in the City of Buffalo that they immediately contact the clerk's office. and I'll get it listed as that so that this will protect our residents, our constituents and visitors that are coming into the City of Buffalo and I'm also working with Mr. Ball to see if there's a way that we can work with residents who may have hit one of these potholes in the past when it was called into 311 but never ever, there was no contact to the clerk's office with the dangerous condition letter. So, you know, hopefully this will solve that problem in the future and make the lives of our residents a little bit easier. And we all know it's been a terrible year for potholes in all of our districts. I was driving around this morning and making lists for Mr. Stepniak, and, I mean, I found some that were, I mean, they're beyond potholes. They were just huge on Military Road, Tonawanda Street, and pretty much every part of the district. But thank you. Thank you. You just educated me on it also because we were just in a meeting recently where residents were being told just call 311. And so that is good, and I think this is a good resolution. If possible, would it be okay for a database to come to us every week, you know, for a council instead of each individual meeting? filed, because I can see this agenda running pretty long with individual files. Sure, I'm open to anything as long as it solves the problem, and I'm sure that all of us were probably, I was ignorant of the matter that we still had to contact the clerk's office and it's, you know, I don't think it was necessarily anybody's fault. I think that everybody just assumed, and it was a couple of phone calls by me to Tim Ball and to Larry Wolf in the law department that said, you know, that realized that this was a little, that it was a glitch. And, I mean, the good news is I think that the pothole problem has, this is the worst that we've had in years. And so I think because they hadn't been so bad in the past, it wasn't brought to our attention. But this year there's so many of them. And once again, I just want to make sure that we protect everybody. our residents and visitors in the city of Buffalo. I agree. Is it possible to change the law, that it would just state by the clerk or 311? Well, that's what I've been working with Mr. Ball on because Mr. Rueckl, I believe that what he told me is that there's state law that we would have to, that we're under, and because that's what I thought, just by contacting 311, that that would automatically do it and that's not the case. the clerk, from what I understand, still has to be notified. So I hope that this resolution would solve that problem. As a matter of fact, just a quick little anecdote. I was at a party last Thursday, and the guy says to me, he goes, I've got to call a taxi cab or Uber or something. And I said, oh, do you need a ride? And he goes, I live up in Niagara-Weekfield. And he goes, I lost two tires on my car. And I was like, oh, no. like, oh no. And we were in my district and I said, where did this happen? And he goes, oh, about a mile up on River Road. And I was like, okay, thank you. That's good, dude. I mean, I hate to say that because it's not just Buffalo. I mean, we've had problems because we've got over a thousand miles worth of roads, but it's all over the place. And I mean, I felt bad for this gentleman no matter where, but I felt a little bit better. It was River Road. And you're totally right. And thank you for saying that because, you know, I see a lot of polls that a lot of people call and say, okay. Buffalo needs to fix its potted well. Every place you go, Niagara Falls, and it's because of the weather that we have right now. And our staff, the administration staff, is out every single day. One of the workers came to a funeral last week. He had enough time to run into the funeral and to run back out because they just had so many calls. So they are out there doing it. Thank you. All right, next item. Item 74, concerns BFD, new recruits psych evaluation process. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. And I just want to pause real quick. This is going to civil service. And if any of the other council members have any other complaints from recruits or people who have taken the test, we could just put them together. Just getting a lot of complaints, and it's going back again to one part of the process, to only one part of this process. And that is the psychological exam. I'm very concerned about it. We visited that problem or that concern when it was the police. Now we're having the same concerns on fire. And I think we've really got to dig deep into the weeds and not just look at the numbers, but see really what's going on. Next item? Okay. Oh, Councilman White, I'm sorry. I didn't bring my other glasses, so I'm trying to focus in and out. I think that you're right that we have to look at this a little deeper, because I believe we have another complaint on here as well. And I know that myself and the Majority Leader had some conversation about some other issues regarding the process. And I think that somehow we need to be a part of the conversation, because we're getting the complaints. I don't know how we can do it, but I think that's something that we need to investigate and look at because, again, folks are feeling like they're not being given the proper opportunity. There's questions about process. And I think that being a part of that process could really help lend us to hopefully improving the process and to strengthen it because we want individuals to be able to seek their life dreams of being a firefighter or a police officer. But sometimes I think that there's some internal things that are happening that keeps us at bay, that we can never put our finger on the real problem. And it continues to kind of reverberate and show its head over and over again, and we never address the issue. So I think that we really need to come to how do we address this issue. Thank you. Next item. Thank you. I'm sorry, there's a, I really, you know, I didn't think I needed glasses this bad, but I grabbed the wrong ones and I feel like Fred Sanford. Council Member Wingo? I've had at least two complaints regarding the psychological evaluation in the last month or so. And I think it's becoming disconcerting that we have someone who is, I wouldn't say or accuse them of deliberately failing certain individuals, but it seems as though if there is something in common with everyone that he's failing. Also, some of the questions that I've been told that are being asked don't necessarily seem germane to their function or their performance as a firefighter or a police officer. And I think that it's incumbent upon us, I agree with Councilmember Wyatt, to ensure that this person who's making the final decision is not the only person who has input in this process. I do believe it should come before the Council as well, that way we can at least give it an extra step of vetting before that person either denied or approved. Because at this point, it just seems like it's, there's a common thread that I'm personally seeing in each case that calls my office, who fails this psychological evaluation. And many people who fail this psychological evaluation never report it, because they feel this is it, there's nothing else for me to do. However, those people who are fighting the final decision of this individual, Have to applaud them for actually standing up for those who aren't saying anything at all So I do believe my council my colleague councilmember Why has a point and that it should be some extra step in the process? To bring it before the council because we've been seeing the same story and I know we've met you myself Council member Wyatt. I'm not sure who else is in that room, but even when I walked in a room and He assessed me and told me I wouldn't be a police officer or a fireman. Straight walk, he did not know me from Adam. Adam in the Bible. He didn't know me from anybody, but yet he made that assessment when I walked through the door that I had some ulterior motive or some hidden agenda. And he figured it'd be good for him to sit there and dismiss everything that I said during that meeting. That meeting was very disrespectful, if you ask me. And I left that meeting feeling less confident in the process. That's out there, and I do believe that we need to add some additional staff to so that the council can Contribute to that vetting process. Thank you. Thank you sir council member Fontana I've heard from some individuals that I've known for over 15, 20 years that have failed the psych exam with this individual. And, you know, I'm not in that field, but you wonder why and what's the common sense version of what's supposed to be happening. I'll liken it to my days in the restaurant business when I had a completely stainless steel kitchen. Tile floors, tile backsplashes, metal behind the stoves, Ansel systems cleaned every six months. This place was spotless. And I dared the building inspector here, I dared my health inspector to find something in my kitchen. Like, you're not going to find chicken on top of stuff. The cooler temps are always fine. You're not finding anything in my kitchen. And he would always be like, damn it, Richard, I can't find anything in this kitchen, but I can't go back without finding something. I've got to find something. And he'd always get me for owner not wearing a hat. But I'm not wearing a hat. My hair doesn't fall out of my head. It's not going on anyone's food. And I'm not going to wear a hat every day to make that not happen. So he'd get me for that. I didn't care. So I always get a good rating. Now, this gentleman here seems like he has to find something or else he's not happy. He has to find something, he's thinking to himself, and he can't pass everybody. And I think that's what he's doing. He is taking that same philosophy that he has to find something or else he's not earning his paycheck. Well, his decisions are hurting people, I think, and they're not the decisions that I would make. You know, if we knew someone was crazy and they passed, we'd be like, oh, gee, how'd they pass? But if we knew they were crazy and they failed, we'd be like, okay, he's doing a good job. But when people, normal individuals go down, and these are individuals that could get employed anywhere within the state, and they're failed for reasons unknown to me, it's bewildering at best. And that's why I think we should discuss this item further. Be part of the process and see what happens because we're losing good people I feel Even if there's another panel they can go to and if that panel wasn't paneled we're part of that panel Maybe they could have personal references. I'd like to talk to the gentleman to see exactly why someone fails What is he seeing that we're not seeing is he that well trained or is he just getting a paycheck? I think, and we have talked to him about some of the questions, and I wouldn't be looking so deeply into this if it wasn't that the people who are calling are bringing proof. So one gentleman who was failed, and because he brought the proof and I told him it would be a part of the discussion, of course I wouldn't be talking about personnel issues, he failed because someone was braking in his car, and he went and got the individual out, and there was a fight. From that incident, the doctor felt that this individual was too aggressive. Yeah. And he had police contact. Well, he had police contact because he called the police about the guy breaking into his car. And one of the things that I'm concerned about when the doctor talks about police contact, in certain neighborhoods there is a demographic of people who are going to have more police contact because there are more police present. And so if I then get pulled over because I am in a neighborhood where police are more aggressive, or a police officer is more aggressive, then that means I'm probably going to have police contact. And some of the people who he failed don't have a record. It's because of police contact. And I've had this doctor come to Buffalo. He had never really had experience with an African American. We had him come to church. I went to his office in Rochester, which, by the way, does not use him because and I talked to the mayor's office because of what they felt like was some possible bias. If the city where his office does not use him, I've got some questions why we continue to use him. And I know there's only, I think, three certified psychiatrists in the state of New York who are certified for police and fire. But maybe we got to do something different. Maybe they need to come from Alaska a couple times a year, or Africa, or somewhere. All right. Councilmember Rivera. Mr. Chairman, I've met with our Human Resources Department along with Rashid Wai, and I think we've had this conversation way back when they initially instituted the psychological exam with the Buffalo Police Department. And back then we had some concerns regarding the psych exam based on conversations that we had with our constituents who had taken the psych exam. Now, this is a very subjective exam. When you take the physical, you pass, up or down. You take the agility test, you pass, up or down. You do your background checks, criminal, up or down. It's black and white. With the psychological exam, it's totally subjective. You may have a bad day when you go to take this exam. Or you may not answer the question in the manner that the person that is given the exam, even though your answer is correct. Your answer may be correct. Your tone, your attitude, how you express yourself may be the reason that you flunked that exam. I think that is subjective. If they were to do a psych exam, I see people here in City Hall, we'd probably all fail. I honestly believe from the first floor up to the top floor, we would fail. And I always say that council members would be the first one to fail the exams. It's subjective. It depends on an individual. whose mind is sometimes already made up. If he answers this way, he fails. Not knowing the background of that individual, not knowing, like you said, the community, how exposed they are to police officers, what their backgrounds are, the insensitivity, the treatment that they've had, that doesn't reflect in their evaluation of that individual. And I think we need to take a step back from these psychological exams and look at them and see where... these decisions or by who these decisions are being made. And the sad thing about it is you really don't have much to fall in other than civil service because when you talk to civil service, um, they failed. Okay, yeah, they failed. It's not that black and white. We should be looking at this. The attitude of our civil service, the human resources department, is terrible when it comes to psych exams or when it comes to any other exams. I had meetings with them where I couldn't believe And we've had people there that have taken exams, answered the questions correctly, based on manuals of procedure, based on history, based on the academy. They've answered them right, and they still failed those exams because they're subjective. I'd like to take a look at some of them. I asked, do you record these exams so we can go back and take a look at those exams? Some of those exams aren't even recorded, so there's nothing for us to fall back on. to say, well, wait a second, he did answer the question correctly, but there's no way to go back and look how they responded to the question because there is no video, no tape recording on some of these. I'm not saying all of those, but some of those. So it's very difficult to challenge it. when there's nothing to look at, there's no evidence. And I can't believe that we can't allow people that are taking an exam in the city of Buffalo that have gone to colleges, that have degrees in the areas, that have sacrifice, that have exercise, that have good credit, that have good backgrounds, good families, exemplary people are failing these exams because of somebody's subjectivity. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Councilman Scanlon? Thank you. I couldn't agree more with my colleagues. This is something I brought up a couple years back when this group was first hired by the city of Buffalo. I've seen a number of citizens in my district, and I know it happens across the city, but they fail these exams. And again, it's been referenced by several people. It's pretty subjective, and you have to take into certain circumstances their upbringing, things, everything, all kinds of factors that contribute to that um the answers and the the uh psychological evaluation one of the major concerns i've always had was upon appeal so many of them are overturned and why or which is nice but then the ones that aren't um i'm afraid that the lawsuits have potentially opened up the city too and over the course of the past year past few years we've um In ball and his team and law have done a wonderful job of bringing the cost down in that department I would hate to see that skyrocket back up based on lawsuits for something We can be avoiding just by putting someone in place that could administer that exam a little more thoroughly a little more Open-minded so I couldn't agree more with my colleague. I agree good. Thank you next item Item 75, trailblazing resolution for Reverend Josephine H. Thompson. Motion to approve items 75 and 76. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 77, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. I'm going to catch up with you. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 78, Budget and Personnel Amendment Collections. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 79, City of Buffalo's Financial Management of Accounts. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank my colleagues for supporting this effort. We've had a number of conversations about our council-seedable system, and we continue to not address that issue. And I think the last time that finance came to council, I was somewhat embarrassed what they gave me. I gave them a whole system of how we can improve our tracking of accounts receivable, which I think is very important. We shouldn't have an accounts receivable list that is this thick, that has numbers and numbers and numbers that in most cases we probably aren't going to ever collect. I think we have to be reasonable and we have to have a system in place going forward so that we are more fiscally responsible. To not have a system is irresponsible. And for us as councilpersons and fiduciaries, it's our responsibility to oversee the city's finances. And when we see that there's areas that there's errors, or we have not been doing our due diligence to make certain that the tax dollars that are collected are used or collected to make sure that we can have city services, I think we have to speak up. So this is putting forward another recommendation that I'm willing to work with the city and work with the Treasury Department, whatever department, to make sure that we have a comprehensive plan for a city our size to collect on debts that are owed so that they don't become so stale that we can't collect on them. We should have a significant system that within 90 to 120 days that we collect on every dollar. The taxpayers deserve that. We deserve that. So this is a resolution, again, offering my support asking for a more robust plan for city collections throughout the city, not just one department, throughout the city. I've talked to a number of people and they said everyone has their own little process. That doesn't make sense to me. We should have one process or one process funneling into the process. So if you have different departments doing collections, that should funnel into a main system. But we should always be on top of this. We're going to come to a day of reckoning that we have to be fiscally responsible. And I don't want to be like another city and be scrambling for dollars that we should have had in the first place if we were more responsible. conscientious of the dollars that we have. This is a start in the right direction. I'm going to be on our finances. This is important to me. I think we've made a number of recommendations in our budgets, our annual budgets of things that we should be doing and it seems as though sometimes it falls on deaf ears. Well, this year, this process, as well as the future budgets that we come up to, I'm not going to be as unyielding. Because, again, we give people an opportunity to show that they have the expertise, that they can do what they need to do. But when we ask the questions and people aren't willing to give us the information that we need to make good decisions, We don't run your department, but you can give us information so we can help at least have oversight to say, yeah, this is a good idea or it's not. But for us to continue to surpass budget after budget and not really make sure that we understand the mechanics behind why we're doing what we're doing, we just can't make it on a feeling. We've got to make it on numbers. And I think this will be a step in the right direction to make sure that we can make good decisions and we have resources and dollars to do the things that we need to do to take care of the residents of the city of Buffalo. Thank you. Thank you, sir. All right. Thank you. Next item. Item 80, measure of deeds, public duties. Motion to adopt item 80 and 81. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Announcement of committee meetings, regular meetings. I'm sorry, Council Member Fontana, you have the floor. Can we revisit item number four? Motion to revisit item number four. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. We're going to need to send this to finance. There's some work going on with the bridges, and I'm hearing now that we might need this land for a few more weeks while they're Work on Bailey Avenue has been completed as being completed. I don't want to transfer it if we're gonna be driving over and then get sued By the new owner potentially so I'd rather hold it and then wait till we're done with the break Motion to rescind the previous motion to approve second by councilmember Fontana motion now is to send the CD or finance right whatever you want. I I need a finance like to keep an eye on it motion to send a finance Announcement committee meetings regular committees to me on civil service Tuesday February 27th at 9 45 a.m. Me on finance following civil service. Give me a community development Tuesday February 27th 1 p.m. I mean on legislation Tuesday February 27th 2 p.m. Coastal members any announcements all right Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilmember Barry Fontana.