Council meeting has started. We need to be able to hear. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge of allegiance to the United States of America, the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all, As we remain standing, our invocation Today we'll be giving and thankful our chaplain as brought him, Pastor James Giles, who has been very active in our community against violence and working with so many groups. And oftentimes many of us have had to call and his umbrella of groups will come out and often help. We often hear about the murders in the city We very rarely hear about how many have been prevented because of groups like these who live right here in this city. So thank you, Chaplain, for bringing to us Pastor James Giles. Thank you. All minds clear. Dear God in heaven, as always, we certainly acknowledge our dependence upon you. But now, God, I want to lift up, Lord, not only the greater community, but certainly this body. Lord, you have called together these men. Lord, you have granted them gifts of mind. You granted them the measure of a faithful heart, that they would care about this community in such a way. I pray that you continue to guide and lead them unto your truth. Lord, and we lift up the city before you, the city of Buffalo, our great city. Lord, where all these individuals and residents, Lord, we are still reeling, Lord, even from the pandemic. And then followed, Lord, by 514 and followed by the blizzard and followed by the fire that took five innocent lives, Lord. Lord, we just hold the city up before you. I hold these men that are in leadership up before you, Lord, to lean into resolutions and remedies, Lord, for the pain and the suffering. Grant them the power to heal. Lord, and we're asking God that we all, Lord, begin to heal, Lord, with the love, not only the love of you, O Lord, but certainly the love for each other. We ask this in the precious name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Council Members, Memorials, thank you so much. Chaplains. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would ask the City of Buffalo to please keep lifting in prayer Heather Ann Williams. Yes. who's the wife of John Williams, the owners of OSC. Their company business is in Maston District. And I had the pleasure of meeting them through our majority leader, Crystal Peoples-Stokes and Lisa Yeager. When I met John and his wife, Heather, they were a fierce duo, because John was very, well, he seemed to be rigid at the time, and then there was Heather. who could make one heck of a chocolate chip cookie. And every time I would see her, she'd always talk about how she would make me a fresh batch, which of course I was always appreciative of. But John lost his wife suddenly last week, and she passed away at the tender age of 59. Heather was very, very instrumental in the community. She worked on various boards, foundations. but one of the things i remember most about her was how she loved john and i know john hart is broken and i'm asking that we please keep john in prayer and their three children in prayer as they mourn the loss of one of the most beautiful souls i have ever come in contact with she was laid to rest today at the uh michael's saint michael's church right here down on 651 washington i had to miss that for another engagement but I'm asking that the city of Buffalo please keep John lifted in prayer because I can only imagine The hurt and the pain that he is going through. Thank you. Mr. Chair. Thank you council member Golumbik and then council member white Thank you, Mr. President. There was a horrible accident last week near the Peace Bridge in which two people were killed. One of them was a constituent and an old friend of mine, friend of the family going back to grammar school. We've probably known each other since the early 1970s. Jimmy Papage, Popeye, was a Polish way of saying the name. And yes, as in Popeye the Sailor Man, that was the same last name. He always used to get a kick out of that. But he was just unfortunately in the wrong place at the wrong time and he and a friend were both killed. And it's going to be very, very sad for their family and their friends in the Riverside and Black Rock neighborhood, his two brothers, his mom and his sister. And so I hope that we just remember Jimmy Popeye Papage today. Thank you. Council Member White. thank you mr president asking for the prayers of the city of buffalo for the director of ucda i'm roseanne sabillion and losing her husband richard of 51 years i was able to go to the funeral and i heard a little bit about this man who i only met once or twice but he had an infectious laughter And I know she's taken it very hard in her family, but she knows that Richard had a heart of gold and would do anything for his family. And so we pray for that family, that they will be able to endure this difficult loss. Thank you. Absolutely. We also remember the mother of Jimmy, Paul, and his sister, Christine Bowles Hardaway, who was funeralized from the Zion Missionary Baptist Church, on Monday, yesterday, on Monday, and just almost looked like the whole city was there. So many people were there, and she will be greatly missed. Any others? Hearing none, we always remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries since our last meeting. We remember the Ukrainians right now who are fighting for their land and for democracy. We now pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Council members, I'm going to count. We have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven presentations. If each presentation took ten minutes, we'd be here for an hour and ten minutes with presentations. So I'm going to ask that you keep that in mind. And no disrespect, everyone needs – all of these names who are on here are incredible people. We want to acknowledge them. however we want to make sure that we're respectful of everyone's time council member white with two presentations if i could have kent olden come down thank you so much um not too many people get to talk about a great, great, great, great person in the name of Harriet Tubman. But on this day, we want to recognize Harriet during Black History Month for her leadership and saving 100 slaves, bringing them to freedom. And they came through Buffalo and they made She made history and she will talk to you about $20 bill 2030. But again, we think. her family for continuing to keep her name alive and the legacy of the family and talking about her and what she's done. So on this day, it's an honor and a privilege for the City of Buffalo Common Council to extend a warm welcome to Ken Olden and offer our sincere thanks for the continued efforts in making sure that Harriet Tubman's story is told from a more personal lens, be kept alive to educate future generations of Western New York. Signed by all nine council members. council member can you tell us who was who is receiving the award come on i know we got a lot but i don't want it you came all the way down you paid for parking and you know i'm sorry um my name is kendra i am kent's sister um i am the great great niece of harriet tennant my brother was supposed to be speaking because i am not a public speaker he is so i am grateful for this um honor to about my family and i do appreciate the city of buffalo Thank you. Thank you. And I won't comment after everyone, but I do want to say this about Harriet Tubman, because the church that I grew up in, First Church, AME Zion Church, which actually owns, and now the federal government takes care of it, but owns the Harriet Tubman House. People have never been there. We had to go every year when we were at St. Luke. We had to go on pilgrimage every year to our house that still has, some of the original furniture and writings. And so that's where I grew up. Every year we went and had a outdoor barbecue. And a lot of people do not realize it's within three hours of Buffalo that you can drive not only to her house, you can go to her original church and you can also go to her grave site that is in Auburn, New York. So that's so important for our young people to know that Harriet Tubman remains and home is right here in the state of New York so thank you so much for being here and also would like to ask Bob smearing to come down who is the senior project director and Peter sortisco the can to go director this is thank you both this is engineering week And I have an engineer in my office, Jordan. And just wanted to recognize this week, where as founded in 1951, the National Society of Professional Engineers, E-Week has since evolved into a formal coalition of more than 70 engineering, education, and cultural societies and more than fifty corporations and government agencies who share the common goal of recognizing our dedicated diverse and well educated engineering first now therefore the city of buffalo common council along with the middle middle though inc in support of national society professional engineers here by proclaim february nineteen you twenty fifth as engineering week e week in the city of buffalo thank you so much Thank you very much for honoring us this week, along with all the other engineers. There's plenty of them in Buffalo. Buffalo is renowned for a lot of engineering efforts. Pete and I are both Buffalo natives all the way up and through, junior college, college, and we've made a life out of it. So thank you very much for honoring us. Thank you. Mr. Fisher. Thank you. Mr. Fisher. All right, the next presentations will be given uh councilmember wingo you were next but can we hold off a minute because i want the dancers to close us out is that okay it's just two other presentations councilmember bowman thank you council president i'll ask my two special guests uh pastor ale and vivian robinson if you could join me down on the council floor welcome my friend welcome to council chambers and uh this is uh really special day for me, not just as my time as council member, but as a staffer to the Lovejoy District. I got to see Pastor Al and Pastor Vivian Robinson start their ministry in Lovejoy, the Spirit of Truth Urban Ministries. I've seen the impact they've made through that ministry. But that wasn't enough for them. They had to create Rebecca Rose Recovery House. They started a business in Lovejoy, La Verdad Restaurant, which was named number one in New York State for their barbecue. Just amazing community partners. Talking about community partners that in the pandemic, they had COVID testing sites at their location, food giveaways. great partners to work with and you need those kind of community partners as councilmember but right now I'll read from the proclamation because we're here on a different different trip to talk about their efforts during the blizzard so on Friday December 22nd as a historic blizzard unleashed itself on the city of Buffalo many residents found themselves stranded Pastor Al and Vivian Robinson of Spirit of Truth Urban Ministries knew that prayers weren't going to be enough. They needed action, and quick action is exactly what they gave our community in Lovejoy. They opened their doors providing food, shelter, bedding, toiletries to over 130 individuals, including pets. Not only did they give people a safe and warm place to ride out the storm, nursing many who arrived suffering frostbite. Pastor Al also risked his own life, his own safety delivering formula, diapers, and care packages to many homes. It is my honor and privilege and the City of Buffalo council members here, it's signed by all nine to acknowledge Pastor Al and Vivian Robinson for their true acts of of kindness during the blizzard everybody give them round of applause well to be honest with you guys this is something that comes natural in in the business We are followers of Jesus Christ. We're Christ-centric. And what we wanted to do on Christmas Day was unwrap the gift of Jesus Christ with almost 150 strangers that we didn't even know most of their first names. But it was the most beautiful Christmas that we have ever had in our entire existence was the Christmas of 2022. These people were just so beautiful. It was gorgeous. Thank you so much. I was about to say I hope it's filming that camera and then I just dated myself. Councilmember Wingo, if you want to bring it up. This morning it gives me great privilege to introduce these young folks who have come to present us with dance on our council meeting during this African American History Month. And we want to just read the first names of all of the children so you know who they are. Because these are our tomorrow. They are our future. So I'm gonna read all of these names There's more names on this than CBabies, but I'm gonna read all the names anyway So we have Aries, Lily, Carter, Kaya, Madison, Jayshon, Jalea, Nevaeh, Charlie, Ronequa, Crystal, Sharae, Lauren, Demetria, Aubrey, Lauren I don't know what this one says Zynovia? Zynovia? Oh, pretty Lisa Ray, Tenaya, Kenasia, Patrice, Christopher, Melissa, Junior, Jesus, Bree, Dante, Terrence, Frank, wait these are adults. But we want to make sure that we recognize all of these young people's names, have their names read into the record for the City of Buffalo to know that on this day that you all presented before this, in this chamber, before this August body. So please come on, do your thing and impress everybody with your skills. The Royal Rockettes, that's right. The Royal Rockettes. And we thought it was over. Oh, man. Wow. Maybe I should have had them go last with that. If I had a quarter of that energy on. My goodness. Now, Francesca, come and receive this encomium from the city. Thank you. Certificate of recognition is from the City of Buffalo Common Council to the Royal Rockettes Majorette and Dance Team. Francesca, thank you for agreeing to come and have these beautiful little chocolate drops. Come and dance for all of us here. I mean, that's a whole lot of cuteness, y'all. That's just too much chocolate for me. But the City of Buffalo Common Council recognizes the achievement of the Royal Rockettes Majorette and Dance Team, which was founded in 2017 in Buffalo, New York. through your diligence and hard work with the HBCU Prep Organization. Hello, somebody. You have mentored our youth through dance and developed leadership techniques and social skills while teaching our students that college is within their reach. Somebody say amen. Your entrepreneurial efforts have dramatically improved the quality of life for our youth in the city of Buffalo. So we, all nine of us, would like to say thank you for all of your work and diligence with our youth. Thank you. Okay, now we have another presentation for you all today. And we would like for first Ms. Zanetta Everhart to come down on behalf of her brother Charles Everhart. If you have not read the paper or have seen, Brother Charles Everhart Jr. is a bus driver who drives in the city of Buffalo. And one day in particular, in January of 2023, Charles Everhart Jr. found himself and his children in the middle of a crossfire. So Charles, come on down, Zanetta. So I think Charles is at work, so he couldn't be here today. Okay. But Charles, not even thinking, just instinctively put the bus in park, ran to the back of the bus, opened up the emergency chute and got those children safely home. The mother called the terminal because her son was clearly frantic and asked the terminal, why would this school leave my children? And then they said, no ma'am, we watched the recording. Mr. Everhart made sure that your children were home and then went back around to make sure that the babies were at the house and That is beyond the scope of work that they are required to do. So with that being said miss ever heart, please come and accept this This certificate says, Charles Everhart Jr. has always kept a watchful eye on his students exiting or disembarking the bus. On January 2023, Charles Everhart Jr., a Buffalo school bus driver, sprang into action to protect students upon hearing gunfire. Charles Everhart Jr. did not hesitate to put his students' well-being first and alerted other students to go to safety. Charles Everhart Jr.'s acts of courage foiled the shooter's plan to cause harm to other people in the area. Now, therefore, it is an honor and privilege for the City of Buffalo to extend our sincere felicitations to Charles Everhart Jr., for his act of heroism. As one of our most treasured citizens in Western New York, we celebrate his contributions and are in awe of the numerous lives he has touched. And if you think you've heard this name before, you probably have. His dad, Charles Everhart, the dad, Charles, is a singer in the city of Buffalo. I believe he still attends True Bethel Baptist Church. He doesn't just attend. He runs our audio. He runs our audio. So this is one of the pillars of our community, Zanetta's father. We know that they all come from good stock because Zanetta has great ambitions. Her brother has a heroism in his blood. And we just want to give you this on behalf of your brother, who is saving lives and getting children home safely at this time. Thank you. Say hi. Give him up there. Up there. All right, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Last but not least, certainly I know that you all are enjoying the presentations this morning, aren't we? Now, Council President said we can do better than that. If we were at church, Council President said we can do better than that. So I know the children want to hear us do better than that. Next briefly, Mr. President, I would like to bring down my little sister. She's my surrogate sister and I've just adopted her into our family because she has just been so, so instrumental in the community. You know who you are. Jillian Hainsworth. Jillian is the city matter of fact a few years ago Let me just say this piece real quick a few years ago Jillian came to me with an idea Jillian said councilmember big brother. I have an idea. I said, what is it Jill? She said I want Buffalo to have a poet laureate like we have on a national level We've never had one before I said that's a great idea. So we work together and Jillian is the city of Buffalo's first poet laureate give her a round of applause for that Now Jillian As a resident of Buffalo, New York, experienced immense pain and grief following the mass shooting at a supermarket in the historically black neighborhood. She's expressed her sorrows through her poetry. Jillian has also assisted with the healing of the community as a poet, community organizer, and artist while validating people's feelings of anger, confusion, and grief through the creation of poetry and poetry. Jillian has used her artistic talents to take on the role of a mentor to bridge the gap between the pain the community has felt and assisted the community and experiencing their feelings through poetry for comfort and healing now therefore the city of Buffalo's Common Council hereby proclaims our sincere felicitations to Jillian Hainsworth a distinguished poet and and honors her commitment to community service and continuing to be an inspiration to us all the top we get to the major or not uh... i'm into a poem for you uh... this is called the revolution will rhyme thank you the picture for some time about the other The revolution will not be televised. The revolution will not be streamed live on Facebook, Twitter, or IGTV. You will not be able to start it over if you missed a part, and you won't need to tap it twice to see its heart. The revolution will not be brought to you by Nike, the NFL, or Jay-Z. We will watch it succeed in HD without taking a knee. The revolution will not be televised. The revolution will be live. The revolution will thrive. And the revolution will rhyme. The revolution will be led by black women who are just tired enough to do it ourselves. It will be rhythmic enough to follow the beat using drums and tambourines, focusing on the two in the four beats like a secret language that comes naturally. It will get louder when it's calling for the people's attention and quieter when it needs the people to listen. People listen. The revolution will be direct and unwavering without concern of being looked at as angry. It will be as big and natural as a Black Panther's afro without worrying about opportunity. It will be as interwoven as locks, but there will be nothing dreadful about it. And when light shines on the revolution, it will create a halo around it. The revolution will rhyme. It will be syncopated. It will harmonize. It will be caught in repeat. The revolution will rhyme. The revolution will leave no man behind. It will not be developed just to be displaced. Its purpose will not be extracted and repurposed or refocused. And the burden of education and comfort will not be placed on the oppressed while tolerance is gifted to the oppressors. You will not be able to binge watch the revolution. Rewinding the comfortable triumphs and fast forwarding through the hurt You will not be able to DVR the revolution or avoid spoiler alerts or save it for a day that you choose to see its Worth you will not be able to mute the revolution for it will be loud and you will not be able to shame the revolution For it will be proud the revolution will rhyme it will hold your attention and retain your momentum It will float like a butterfly and sting like a bee it will hit even harder than Muhammad Ali It will stand on the shoulders of those who died on their knees screaming, you can take me from my freedom, but you can't take my freedom from me. The revolution will hold this city, this state, this country accountable, forcing them to keep their promises. Promises that guarantee life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. It will be a sight to behold. It will be so cinematic that Ava DuVernay will create a documentary about it. A complete overhaul, not just a quick fix. The revolution will rhyme. It may not always be politically correct, and it will not be required to forgive and forget. The revolution will remember all those who crosses its path with a message fierce enough to make the opposition fear its wrath. It will march through the valley of the shadow of death without regret of its past, and it is coming for what it is owed and refuses to settle for half. The revolution will not be televised. The revolution will be live, the revolution will thrive, and the revolution will rhyme. Thank you. All right, for our last presentation. Our last presentation, the Delaware Black Power. I just want to recognize that the great, great, great nephew of Harriet Tubman is in the building. Kent, just wave your hand so everybody can see you. Lanika Pace is in the building. and we would like to recognize their fierce work and advocacy for African dance. So at this time, as our last presentation, after you finish dancing, make sure that you get your certificate of recognition from the Buffalo Common Council for the great things that you all have been doing in the city of Buffalo and ensuring that this beautiful art does not die. Thank you, thank you, and thank you. Thank you all so very much for your patience and I know that we took almost an hour but after hundreds of years of being enslaved, I believe we deserve 45 minutes of celebrating our heritage. So give yourselves a hand. Thank you so much. Now to all of our guests, we know that you may want to leave at this time, so I want to pause the meeting if you all wanted to leave at this time or if you would like to. Thank you so much. Council President, after those performances, we did provide a video for the new ones. They have food? Yes, in the office. So food? Their parents can go with them as well. All right. All right. Jim, are these down very low? Can you give us a little volume? Are the mics turned down? Give our guests a few minutes, a minute to exit. Thank you. on a motion by mr revere second by ms scandler the minutes of stated meeting held on february 7 2023 are approved council members late files are before you are there any objections to any of the late files hearing no objections to any of the late files we hear the entire agenda before us not take away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review any item i believe you have the last updated version of 2 um 2 17 p.m on the bottom of your agenda are we going from top majority leader your mic chairman motion to take item 51 in resolution out of order all right motion to take item 51 out of order second by councilman columbia item number 51 calling for exploration exploration of land value taxation item got shifted it's item 52 that we're taking out of order All right. The motion then is to take item 52 out of order. Clerk, read the item, please. Item number 52, discharge item 22-818 from legislation committee. Motion to discharge. Second by Council Member Golombet. All right. Item number one, reported sales $750 and $752 Broadway. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number two, certificate of necessity. Motion to send to finance items two and three. Two and three, second by Council Member White. Item number four, university festival discretionary funds. Mr. Chairman, the... Council member Wyatt would like to speak on this you can make the motion of motion is not be to receive motion is to receive in Second by councilmember Wyatt who has a thank you. Mr. President In 2014 I created a festival for the community the University United festival And we've done this festival for several years and done a very good job last year we had about 23,000 people attend and and this was the first year that we had kind of a hiccup and it wasn't anything that was in our control it was something that these entertainers they couldn't get flights for whatever happened was happening with american and so every year that we've done this festival every nickel and dime was accounted for this year was no different it was a little different because we had to do some refunding and things but this whole thing was like papered The pass-throughs gave information as requested from the Comptroller. All those things happened. We have a meeting scheduled tomorrow with the Comptroller about this. So for us to get these letters and to get a second letter is unprecedented, and I'm just trying to understand what is the issue. We've done everything we're supposed to do. There's not one penny coming to me, my family members, or anyone else. I have terrific pass-throughs that have done the documentation of what was spent and how it was spent. So for this to come forth, I have no idea, sir. You know I don't run away from anything. And my integrity is critically important. And this festival is critically important to the community. I didn't have anything in my district. The folks in my district didn't have anything. You know, the Madison district, the Niagara district, the Delaware district. Every district has something except university. So we created something for the family, for families. And again, it grows and grows and grows. So for all this documentation, I have no idea what it's coming from. But we're going to be meeting with the controller tomorrow to go over things. But for this type of paperwork to come forth, I have no idea what it's about. But again, we'll be meeting tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. And I said it in caucus, and I'll say it again. This is a festival that everybody in the city comes to. I've come. I've gone. My family goes. And I know when you first came to university, that was one of the things you wanted to do, is to do something for that community. And it is wonderful, wonderful. And we know that what was happening with the airlines, and it wasn't that they, if I could say, they did have flights and then they were canceled and all that kind of stuff. So it's the controller's job and just keep the paperwork and keep it moving like all the rest of us. Great job on your festival and may there be many, many more. Thank you. All right. The motion is to receive items four and five. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number six, encroachment in City Right-of-Way, 1197 Hurdle Avenue. Motion to approve items six through 14. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 15, a point fire captain. Motion to send the civil service items 15 through 18. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Item number 19, food store license 813 Abbott Road. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 20, food store license 44. 440, a.k.a. 442 Amherst Street. Motion to send legislation. Seconded by Council Member Fierlo. Item number 21, new secondhand dealer, 810 Elwood Avenue. Motion is to approve items 21 through 24. Seconded by Council Member... 23. That's 21 through 23. Seconded by Council Member Fierlo. Item number 24, new secondhand dealer, 919 Kisselton Avenue. Motion to send legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. item number 25 new used car dealer he's apologizing oh not a problem thank you Next item. Item number 25, new used car dealer 2104 South Park Avenue. Motion to approve items 25 and 26. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 27, appoint resilient grants manager. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 28, DPW obtain a tow vehicle. Motion to approve items 28 through 32. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. item number 33 appoint account clerk typist motion to send to civil service second by council member fair little item number 34 bsa 2021 2022 annual comprehensive financial report motion to receive and file items 34 through 37. second by council member columbic item number 38 notice of appointment Motion to send to civil service items 38 and 39. Second by President Pro Temp, Scantler. Miscellaneous, item number 40, Buffalo Blizzard, December 2022. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 41, Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Board, January meeting minutes. Motion to receive and file items 41 and 42. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item number 43, Supplemental Information for 172, Goodell. I'll defer to the Chairman. Second by Council Member Scalise. I didn't follow this. Send it to a committee. I'm not sure. Send it to Ledge, I'm not sure who filed this. And I apologize, it's a late file. Motion to send to Ledge. Thank you. Item number 44, letter to Commissioner Grimalia regarding right aid stores and response time to deaths. Motion to send to police oversight. Second by Council Member White. Item number 45, special use permit 444 for supplemental information. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Petitions, item number 46, special use 125 Amwood for Tavern. Motion to send to City to ledge the City Planning Board items 46 through 48. Second by Council Member White. Submission list, item civil service, item number one, notice of appointments, temp, provisional and permanent. Motion is to receive and file items one and two. Second by Council Member White. Finance. Item number three, cultural funding recommendations for Buffalo Arts Commission. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number four, home ARP allocation plan. Motion to approve items number four through 42. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. We gather the seat is all. Item 34. I guess I'm done. All right. All of those items except 34. all those items except 34. clerk call 34 please item number 34 bond resolution police training facility construction motion to receive file second by the majority of you to revere it was it was hidden in there it's hidden in there sorry Community Development, item number 43, December 2022, Blizzard Report. Motion to receive and file items 43 through and including 48. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Legislation, item number 49, new tire handler 609, Wadden Avenue. Motion to approve with condition 49, approve 50, approve with conditions 51 through 53, and approve 54. Mr. Chairman, can you recommit item 54, please? Sure, we'll rescind the previous motion. The item 54 is marked. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item 54 is marked as approved. We are now going to make a motion to recommit. To recommit and the rescission was only on item number four, 54. Council Member Bowman seconds both of those. Item number 55, special use 962 Lafayette, now owner occupied. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 56, special use 16 Ryan. Motion to approve with conditions 56, approve 57, and approve 58 with conditions. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 59, special use 2024 Fillmore. Motion is to deny items 59 and 60. Second by Council Member Wingo who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. These properties just clearly do not meet any standard for any type of residents to want to live there or even have a short term stay. So there's still trash. around the premises of both of these properties. There's the siding is falling off of the houses. I mean, the windows are out. I mean, I don't even understand how this person had the audacity to bring these applications to this body. And then ask us to approve them so that who's going to live here? Nobody's going to stay here, live here, rent here. That's why they're vacant right now. If you ask me, in my unprofessional opinion, they should be demolished. But these are people's properties. They have a right to own whatever they want to. But if you're going to present something before this body, let it first look like something you want your mother to live in before you bring it here to us. Because this was an atrocity. It was disrespectful. So the motion was denied. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right, second. Motion stands. He said it. Item number 61, the zone and map amendment 127 Clayton and portion of 2030 Elmwood. Motion to approve. Second by council member Golombek who has the floor. Thank you Mr. President. This item had several community meetings. There was some concern over this. This was long time green space in the West Turtle neighborhood. And it was two parcels of land which the two owners could never agree upon until just recently. But there had been attempts in the past to put a BMHA development back there, a group home, a small merchandise building facility. That would have been like a small factory warehouse back there. There was discussion 20 years ago that this would have been the back end of a Walmart if it would have gone on Elmwood Avenue. Many of these things were things that the community and I fought against in the past. But when this development came in front of us, I met with residents from the neighborhood. And there was a lot of opposition initially, because this was going to be a three floor, 66 unit development. We ended up having another community meeting. We had a small working community group that worked with myself and the developer, and they came back with a compromise. I believe it was 48 units and two floors instead of 66 and three floors. There are some residents who are still concerned. They still don't like it that it's going there. But as I tell residents on a regular basis, you know, if not this, then what? And, you know, this concerns, and some of the concerns I think are very legitimate, the increase in traffic that may occur there. But if they would have put some sort of a factory in there, you would have had a lot more increase than 48 units. Originally there weren't going to be one for one parking. Now there is one for one parking there. So I think that this ended up becoming a much better project. Is it perfect? No, there's probably no such thing as a perfect project. And some of the residents are gonna be disappointed because this is an area where there was green space. But as I mentioned to some of the residents from Rebecca Park, Rebecca Park was fought against by neighbors in 1985, and it's been one of the most successful developments in the city of Buffalo. I hope that this follows suit. So this has just been an ongoing project that we've been working on in the district, and I actually just forgot last week to request it be approved. Thank you, sir. Great work with your residents. Next item. Resolutions, item number 49, Chalk Fest Fee Waiver for 2023. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 50, Support No More Way. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golumbik. Once us all have long lawns in May. Thank you. Does that mean don't mow in May? Yeah, basically. For the environment, right? Yeah, for the environment, for the bees and things like that. And also it sort of ties in with the lots of clover that we took a look at, which may end up being developed, so it's a double-edged sword. But I have somebody looking at that corner right now. But it only had to be mowed twice last year because of the clover. All right. All right. Maybe I'll put clover outside of my house. Yeah. All right. Item number 51, calling for exploration of land value taxation. Motion to adopt the resolve. Remainder to finance. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. President. This is an oldie but a goodie. I was a new council member about 20 years ago, and this was an item that I brought up. I think we had a couple of hearings on it. And basically, in a nutshell, land value taxation is a way to respond – to people that are concerned that if If I own a property and I redevelop that property, put a lot of money into it, what happens to it? My property taxes go up. I have a guy next door to me that owns a property that may be an absentee landlord from New Jersey or something. And they never do any work there, yet they're making a lot more money in that property than I'm making at mine. And because I've dumped money into my house to make it a better house, my property value goes up, my taxes go up. What land value taxation does, kind of, sort of in a nutshell, is it taxes properties on what your property should be worth. You and I take care of our property, we get assessed at $100,000. The derelict absentee landlord that has a horrible property that is only valued at about $30,000 or $40,000, under land value taxation, you would say that should be worth the same as the two houses adjacent. So the value of the property goes up to say $100,000. What that does is because of the tax levy not changing, the people that are not taking care of their property that are currently benefiting from the current system would not benefit from a land value taxation. They would actually pay what their property value should be worth, and so what would happen is all the rest of us who are taking care of our property our actual cost of taxes would go down. It's a little complicated, but in the long run, I think it's a benefit. When we brought it up 20 years ago, there were a lot of people that were opposed to it because there were a lot of people that were land banking and they were trying to buy properties. And they said, well, someday Buffalo's gonna turn around and this property that is worth $4,000 is gonna be worth 40,000, 400,000, whatever. What this does is it encourages development. because if you've got a vacant parcel of land and you've got properties on either side that are assessed at a quarter of a million dollars, you would get stuck being assessed a much higher tax rate than what you're paying right now. So it wouldn't benefit you to sit on these properties any longer. I know that when I go to block clubs in my district, residents say, well, it's not fair. I'm working so hard on my property and the dirt bags down the street that are renting out to whoever and they don't care about their properties. Well, this levels the playing field, in my opinion. So I hope this is something that the council would take a very, very serious look at. And there are some negatives to it as well. That's why I wanted to go to committee so that we would be able to discuss it. And the biggest negative is that you have to basically do a reassessment every year on properties, which becomes sort of costly and problematic. But there was one city I think in New York that did I think was Amsterdam, New York or something somewhere on the Hudson I believe Pittsburgh has done it There's a few other cities that we did research on that credited some of their development and some of them said much of their development Was because they did land value taxation and the investors didn't just invest in a property They actually developed the property. So I think that we've hit that curve corner in Buffalo where I think that we would have people from all segments of the community that would be, would find this at least interesting. I don't want to talk on behalf of everyone, but I think it is worth exploring. I have shared it with Mr. Mahaffey and some other people who have not shot it down. So when people don't shoot something down and say, you know, gee, I'm interested or intrigued by this and I'm not implying anyone's support, But I think that there's an openness to this now. So thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Council Member Wingo? If it's all right, I'd like to be added to the resolution. council members Scanlon we like to be at it and speak thank you council president my office was looking into this process a couple a little while back and I did a lot of research a lot of reading up on Pittsburgh and what they did there a very similar city to the city of Buffalo and it was unbelievable that the amount of economic impact that it had on the city that it drove so I'd like to be added to it as well i look forward to hearing uh what what it's about i think i would be a little nervous about assessment every year um and i could see people being a little antsy about that and their taxes changing every year but as you said it's for discussion let's look at it and see where where it lands thank you all right thank you next item item number 53 urge for reconsideration of gas fell being to better address concerns of residents in western new york I'm sorry. Motion to adopt the resolves. Remainders of the CD. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek, who has the floor. It is the Golombek day. Thank you, Mr. President. It's because it's Plinsky Day, by the way. Well, you didn't bring any... They're in my office. Oh, I really had an attitude when I looked over there and didn't see them downstairs. Yeah, they're in the office. They're in the office. The mentor, I was afraid, was going to eat them all if I brought them down here. This item here is, when I've been going to my block clubs, it's not really a city issue per se, but the big issue that I've been getting when I've been hitting my block clubs is a concern that residents are having about my gas is going to be banned. My gas grill is going to be banned. My favorite restaurant is going to lose their gas grill, and I'm not going to be able to get the food there the way that I want. I've had restaurants... In my district that have called me so I for the record would be opposed to simply using electricity throughout all of New York State. But that's not all that this resolution calls for. What this resolution calls for is for representatives from New York State to come in and clarify what their position is. Because I think that some of the information that's out there is misinformation. I think some of it is accurate, and I think that there is a legit concern about trying to put everything onto the grid. Because one of the biggest issues I had during the storm in December was I had about 12 blocks and streets that were out of electricity from two to three days to almost the full week. And in almost every single case, the issue was that transformers had been frozen. And I had crews that were trying to get to transformers rather than trying to get down main streets. And that was one of the – I'm sure we have this in all of our districts – I don't see this as being a Democrat versus Republican issue. I will say that I see it as being a New York City versus the rest of New York State issue. This may work in New York City where you have neighborhoods, council districts that are literally one city block that is an apartment complex. That does not work in Buffalo, Western New York, Upstate New York. The issues that we have here are very, very different and there should be an exemption instead of a one size fits all rule. But I will just say as I said for the record I am opposed and concerned about The issue that our grid would be able to handle all of the electricity that is needed For us here in Buffalo and in the region And I think that we also called for and if I did if we didn't in the resolution. I'd like to have somebody from a a national grid and maybe from one of the universities come in and be able to let us know, can the grid actually handle it? Are we asking for a problem if we are going to try to change everything from gas to electricity over the next five years? I've always been an opponent of the one size fits all approach. And I just think that there's a lot of problems here that have not been thought out. Maybe they have for New York City. but they have not for Buffalo and Western New York. Thank you, Mr. President. Councilmember, in your resolution, and I'll just say this, I think that's a great approach is to ask them to come in because all of us are most concerned about the poor and struggling because that cost is going to get pushed onto poor people, especially who rent. If a landlord has to retrofit a home, I'm also concerned, and I have to be, about churches and nonprofits that are heating their facilities with, for instance, a furnace that's gas. The cost of changing over some of these mammoth buildings. that have been left because of flight, and then you had congregations that took them over, and now there's no way they would be able to afford to heat. And this isn't a poor church, but Antioch, I can imagine what the cost would be to heat with electricity. Yep, it's horrible. So I think that to bring them in, and I go to Council Member White and Council Member Skinner, to bring them in in that approach, I fully support because everybody is so nervous about what that means and what it would cost. Council Member White, Council Member Skinner. Thank you, Mr. President. And please, if you could add me to this, at my last breakfast meeting, we brought up the issue about the conversion from gas to electric, and there was almost a revolt. And exactly what you said, people are scared, like, well, how is this going to happen? How is this going to impact me? And I think that to have representatives come and explain to people is extremely important. Now, it may be good in New York City, but it ain't good in Western New York. And tonight I have a block club meeting where people were interested in generators. Well, these generators are controlled or operated from gas. Yes. So again, you're trying to do something to be proactive, but if you're on the down, in the long term, you're going to eliminate gas, then how do you run these generators? So there's a lot of questions and there's very few answers. And maybe there are answers in New York City, but it doesn't seem like there's answers in Western Europe. So I applaud my colleague for his proactive approach because we want to educate our residents. We shouldn't be scaring people. We should be educating them. We know that fossil fuels are a concern of the environment. Absolutely. But how do we educate people and how do we move them into it without telling them in 2030, you're not going to be able to get this gas stoked. That's not the way to do it. There's got to be a better way, and I appreciate how he's approached it. Thank you. Thank you. Council member scale Thank You council president. I have a resolution. That's very similar Later on the agenda to council member Gombach. So I'll just talk now We can just work the motion on that one You took the words out of my mouth talking about those who might be a little more Financially strapped and what this kind of conversion might do to them not just just on several fronts But also we've seen and my resolution calls for just a pause Of what the New York State Climate Action Council is trying to do with this climate leadership Community Protection Act because I i think in the last couple of years we've seen a couple instances where new york state has proposed and passed legislation without having the framework in place and kind of the chaos that has ensued because of it so i don't want them passing legislation go ahead and saying this is going to happen then everyone's scrambling all across the state we uh it would have a tremendous impact here in buffalo western new york so i thank councilmember glombeck for filing his resolution and hopefully we can just adopt mine afterwards as well Councilman Ferreira-Ledl and Councilman Winkle. Thank you. I just want to add, we just had a terrible blizzard where 40 people died. Tens of thousands of people were without power for four days and five days. I talked to countless people who said the only reason their house was warm was because they had gas insert fireplaces. And, I mean, we have, we think, we don't know what we'll see in the future. to have power outages for four or five days at a time. I know different neighborhoods have power outages more frequent than others, and that certainly needs to be looked at when we're talking about getting rid of all gas inserts and gas fireplaces. Absolutely. Thank you. Council Member Winkle. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and you are right. Antioch is a big edifice. Over the storm, there were about 40 people who housed themselves in our sanctuary and again like i said before they they ate all of our food out of the cupboards they cooked they didn't wash dishes but it saved over 40 lives and i could only imagine the cost of heating a facility like antioch over on fillmore it would be you know very cost prohibitive i would only agree to something like that if the government was to mitigate the costs or subsidize the costs of that conversion. And I wholeheartedly agree with my colleague, Council Member Scanlon, and that we need to make sure that we're doing something to prepare for this before they make a decision and say, all right, we're going to take all the gas inserts away. So let's make sure that we don't build a plane as it's going down, as is much of the things that happen in politics across this country. But at the same time, we want to make sure that we're prepared for what this may— because there are going to be unintended circumstances that we are not going to be prepared for, that we know is going to happen. And we know that there are going to be other extraneous confounding factors that are going to contribute to this being worse than what it could be. But what we want to do is, again, I cannot agree more with Councilmember Scanlon that we need to have the framework in place and make sure that places like these huge churches that have these huge sanctuaries are able to convert if that should be the desire of the federal and state government. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Council President. Not to be redundant, but you know that there's a very importance to this matter whenever a council member speaks up on it. And I've had a lot of conversations with folks in my district and the way that they were explaining it to me is almost like a two-fold where they're saying that Okay, we can understand where new builds, you know, large new builds could require this. But the conversion to existing structures where the City of Buffalo has some of the oldest housing stock in the region. The inundation of this mandate could really have a ripple effect of people, of affordability, of historic structures and aging housing stock. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, and you're totally correct. I know it's 2030, but that's around the corner. And I know people who it takes ten years to plan a vacation. So imagine trying to plan getting rid of your gas stove. And I'll just say personally, I like my gas stove. I don't even know how to cook on the electric. But imagine, especially our seniors and most challenged. So I agree. Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to kind of chime in. I appreciate the discussion. One other point. I wanted to add, and this came up at one of my block club meetings, is, and I really appreciate the fact that we're going to ask National Grid to come in, because what kind of protections are we taking to ensure in these blizzards or major storms that the substations that everybody are talking about froze or went under snow uh what kind of efforts are being taken by the power company to further protect those and it sounds like in colder climates alaska they do make efforts to protect them further so that'd be a very interesting conversation to hash out absolutely thank you councilman councilman thank you very much mr chairman sometimes uh you know people in albany come up with different legislation, but then it's up to everybody else to govern the legislation that they try to pass. And we find it that it's very difficult to govern the legislation they pass. For example, the cannabis. That they approve but it don't say how it's regulated So you you you you come together with legislation, but it's up to everybody else to govern How is it license? Is it through inspections? Is it does a city have a say in this whole thing? So I'm really concerned about the attitude in in Albany where they come up with legislation It's up to us to figure it out after the fact and how to govern But I agree I when I heard about taking away of the the gas stoves, I couldn't believe it. It was like there's something just wrong when they're telling you you don't have an option, that we're going to do this. So my concern was for the very reasons you all explained, and that is that the poor folks are not going to be able to do the conversion. But the fact that you don't have the option is a concern of mine as well, where they're telling you, hey, by this year, we're going to do away with it. I'm concerned whether or not I should buy a car that's not electric, because they're saying by such and such a year, certain states are doing away with gas prices. vehicles in their state. So it does bring a concern in terms of how we govern with decisions that are made in Albany. And I wish they would come and talk to us and fill us in. Now, we could be worried about something that's not even going to happen, but we certainly want them to clarify that. So I'd like to be added on as well. Thank you. Council Member Golombik, is this being sent to the delegation? Yes. I believe that it is. If not, yeah. Okay, thank you. Thank you all. All righty, next item. Item number 54, waive fees for Club 49ers, Easter Egg Hunt. Motion to approve items 54 through 56. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 57, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 57 through 59. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 60, call for Shades Buffalo to address management issues in government-owned buildings. Adopt the resolves remainder to CD. And just briefly on this item. think we've all read probably about the some of the things going on in Shays Buffalo we do spend Capital dollars there that building does belong to the city of Buffalo So I just want to be sure that they are on solid footing I don't I believe that they have a foundation and money, but when it comes down to repairs they come to the city and um and so if something is going left there we've seen other organizations matter of fact i won't air their dirty laundry but another theater group that's having some problems and their building does not belong to the city but this one does so that's why we want somebody to come in and update us on shays councilman nolkowski Thank you, Mr. President. In reapportionment, I do inherit this, and I fully agree with you. I'm so happy that you were able to do this, because M&T Bank pulling out is very dangerous. Huge concern. And it's a regional asset as well, and it brings thousands of people every single year. And I know a lot of people, restaurants and Airbnbs that rely on chaise. So it has a large economic impact. And what we're seeing is very alarming. So we need to have someone come in here and explain what's going on. Absolutely. So thank you for the support, and it will be going to CD. item number 61 create a designated lactation room in city hall for nursing employees mr chairman motion is to adapt remainder to cd second by uh council member noah cows no who was the second on that yeah by council member nowakowski mr chairman um The reason we filed this resolution is it came to our attention that many City Hall employees, particularly the Central Staff employees, were having a difficult time finding a place to express breast milk. They needed a place that was convenient, that was private and comfortable. They've done this for many, many years. I just want to commend Central Staff for the extensive research they did in best practice with regards to lactation and finding a place. The governor has since signed a bill that will come into effect in June of this year. The bill perhaps does not go as far. I want to commend the administration for the room they opened up, I believe in room 506 or was it 506? 606, that is comfortable, private, and convenient where employees can now use a FOB and go in there. We're looking to strengthen the state law that doesn't go as far enough. Believe it or not, I think we might go just a little further and we can improve on what we're doing here in the city of Buffalo. But the state is further behind in terms of providing a room that meets those criterias. Theirs is more in common areas. A woman who is looking to express milk wants a private place. She doesn't want to go into the bathroom or into a cafeteria, into a little corner. They should have a space that is respectful, that is dignified, and that is private. So we're working towards that end. I just want to commend the administration for the first steps that they taken I think we can improve upon it and we're looking forward to working with the state as well And I also want to thank councilmember Mitch Nowakowski whose staff was very instrumental early on in Researching this as well. Thank you very much. Thank you item number 62 New York State climate action council to pause climate leadership and Community Protection Act. I i'm sorry that was item 62 and adapt motion to that second by council member scanlon who spoke on the item and similar to the last one item number 63 bond resolution for police training facility motion to approve second by councilman white item number 64 calling on new york state to reintroduce an eviction moratorium for Pacific zip codes. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. And I just wanted to thank my colleagues. I know that I was looking for this to be adopted, but because I heard from them, and that's the respectful thing to do because this would impact their district as well. But again, the alarming number in my district concerned me. And so I took quick action. I was trying to take quick action, but I'm looking forward to having the conversation CD to discuss it further and I'm also looking to put forth an emergency effort to educate tenants who are in Risk of being evicted as well as using other city resources to get people connected So they can get into because those things are still available to them So I'll be taking a proactive approach to assist people in this situation But also listen to my colleagues there in CD Thank you said you're gonna send a copy of this over to the housing task force Yes, and this is a copy this goes up to the housing test for so that'd be one of their first items in the agenda Thank you, sir Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I do appreciate Council member why it's sitting this to committee because once this had come to the attention of Some of the folks who would even tend my chair to some of the folks in the community They were a little alarmed only because you know, some of these properties are their only source of revenue and And sometimes when you have individuals who have taken advantage of the wrap money, that poses a big issue. One of the reasons why I will never be a landlord, why even though real estate is a very lucrative business, I mean real estate is a very lucrative business, one of the reasons why I will never be a landlord is because what I've seen my father go through when he was a landlord. So I want to make sure that we hear from both sides, and I really appreciate Councilmember Wyatt sending this to committee so that we can hear from both sides, so that folks know that this common council does want to hear both sides of the argument, because we want to be fair and equitable to everyone. So thank you to the University District Councilmember Wyatt, and we'll be having, I guess, a great discussion in committee. Thank you. I'll just say, I did a resolution one time to license CAPS. I thought everybody was going to love it. And then I got a letter from a cat. But what we did is we figured out a way to take care of the problem of the cats that weren't in anybody's house and under porches. And we spent money and gave money to an organization to help rescue and relocate those cats. So sometimes you start at one way, and then you get somewhere in the middle of helping people who are definitely under strain but also realizing so thank you i agree thank you for moving that to a place where it could be discussed councilmember glomit yeah thank you mr president i want to thank the sponsor as well because uh you know i've heard horror stories from both sides uh today alone i had two or three people from my district that contacted me and said please don't support this moratorium they own one or two properties. And unfortunately, when you're a small landlord, and I think generally speaking, at least the experience that I've had since being on the council and as an intern and employee, The mom and pop people are not the people that are the problem. It's the people usually from New York City, it's sort of a tangent today, sorry. Sorry. But it's a lot of them are from New York City or from outside of the area. And like I said, today I had two or three people that contacted the office that said, I had tenants that were working full time. And they took advantage of this and wouldn't pay me. One guy said he had to work overtime every week on his job just to pay for what he was losing because the tenants weren't paying. Now that shouldn't happen, so neither should the other aspect either. But once again, it's not a one size fits all type of a rule, at least it shouldn't be. And I want to be able to protect those mom and pop people that have those properties in the neighborhood, that are the good landlords, that take care of their properties. So thank you to the sponsor for sending this to committee. Thank you. Next slide. Oh, I thought you. No, I was just going to comment on maybe we should revisit our cats resolution. No, you can file one, but I'm not filing anything else to do with cats, dogs, or rats. Unfortunately though, we do have folks who are feeding the cats, and because you are feeding the cats, the cats don't chase the rats, and now the rats are just biggest of cats. I'm saying nothing for the record. Feral cats are out of my wheelhouse for the next ten months. Next item. Item number 65, transfer of funds for DPIS. Motion to send to finance. Okay, second by Councilmember Wyatt. Was that the last item? Yes. Can we revisit item number 43? Motion to revisit item 43. Yes, for the record, I want my name struck from this. I didn't submit this. And the reason there's been lawsuits with this developer, with the medical campus. So when it was filed, what I'm being told, it was filed by a developer. No council member's name should ever be put on an item that is not filed by the council member. I did not file this item. I have not read this item, so I don't know whether I support this item or not. And I think we have to tighten up on these late files coming It's one thing if a late file comes from within, from a council member, but I just don't, I'm starting to disagree, and we've talked about this, with people walking in, filing an item, and then we just automatically late file it. If they didn't get here by the deadline, why are we accepting all of these late files? Then it looks like we're trying to hide something or put it, no, just stop and get my name off of that. All right. So for the record, I said it. Any other revisits? We didn't solve all the world's problems today, by the way. We got lactating rooms, no lawns, all kinds of stuff. We solved the world's problems today and have black history. It was longer than the shades program. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, committee on civil service is Tuesday, February 28th at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance follows civil service is Tuesday, February 28th, 2023 at 10 AM. Committee on community development is Tuesday, February 28th, 2023 at 1 PM. And committee on legislation is Tuesday, February 28th, 2023 at 2 PM. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to invite the residents of the University District to our Educate and Empower Summit, which will be taking place on Wednesday, February 22nd from 530 to 630 at Girard Place. If you are a block club or you want to start a block club, we will have the University District Block Club Coalition there, as well as the board of block clubs so there's a lot of information but again if you want to start a block club and you want to get connected on the block club is the way to go I encourage if you are a university district and you don't you view it you're a district resident and you don't have a block club on your street and you want to get involved this is the way to do it come and join us on Wednesday and you can get all the information to start one because block clubs are power you can talk and you can sit on the sideline complaining about things but if you have a block club you have a united front and you can make things happen on your block thank you motion to adjourn