Roll call. Here. Here. Here. Aqui. Present. Oh. Here. Let's stand for the play. To the flag of the United States of America, the Republic of America, for the age, the power, and the visible, the liberty and the trust of all.
 We are pleased today to have Pastor Marty McDonald, who actually pastors in Batavia, one of the largest churches in Batavia. If you go down the main street of Batavia, you will see Pastor McDonald's church.
 former theater and made it into a beautiful sanctuary. But he's very connected to the city of Buffalo, not just in the fact that he takes me to breakfast once a month or so, but the fact that he has a heart for the city of Buffalo and western New York. And so it's with great pleasure that I present to Reverend Marty McTaster. Marty, make it up.
 Thank you, Council President, and my friend as well, council members, guests. I greet you from the beautiful city of Batavia, as well as our city manager. Jason Molino sends his best regards, and he said, be sure to tell them,
 that we in Batavia stand amazed at the progression that Buffalo is taking. So I wanted to bring you that today. And thank you for Reverend L. Warner for letting me come in his stead today as he is in Africa. I'd like to read this to you before I pray from the book of Romans, Chapter 12. And I thought it was so appropriate in my own life today, and that's why I wanted to share it with you as well.
 He says, let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. Love one another with brotherly affection.
 Outdo one another in showing honor. Do not be slothful in zeal, but be fervent in spirit. Rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality.
 Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Don't be haughty, but associate with the lowly
 Never be wise in your own sight, and repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. And if possible, so far as it depends on you, live at peace with all men. May we pray. Father, I thank you today for the great honor to stand here and to ask your blessing on what takes place.
 in this incredible city, this beautiful portion of western New York. I pray for continued favor. I pray, God, that you would lead and guide every decision that is made. And I pray, God, as this body fulfills their calling, that you would not only add favor here and in this city, but in their own particular lives as well. I thank you for it, and I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir.
 and council members and memorials. Council Member Golombi, here you go.
 Mr. President, the city of Buffalo lost Casimir Nero Rodriguez, Jr., Latin music vocalist, band leader, and producer. I only met Nero a couple of times, but I've been friends with his dad for about the past 12 or 14 years. You know, I can't imagine anything more horrible than for a parent to lose their child, but I wanted to keep the Rodriguez family in our prayers for today and the meantime. Thank you.
 any other and I also echo, I know that Joe's dad also worked very hard in the city of Buffalo and in many of our districts. So I'm very happy to be here. Hearing no others, as always, we remember men and women, veterans and civilians, who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries since our last meeting. We pause for one second. You may be seated.
 For those who are watching by television, we have some technical difficulties of watching by the internet with our sound system, so if it is not completely balanced,
 please forgive us for the technical issues that are in front of us that I mean you have the late files in front of you are there any objections then you have the late files that are in front of you hearing no we proceed with the agenda that is before you not taking where your right to object to the late files as they come toward come before us on the motion by mr. Revere second by mrs. Scanlon the minutes of the stated meeting held on February 7 2017 were of
 approved from the top item one Commission on citizens rights and community relation CD second by council member Fran that I'm through submission of monthly report motion to receive and file items two and three
 Item 4, request approval of certificate of current base proportions. Motion to send items 4 and 5 to finance. Seconded by Council Member White. In public works, item 6, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 7, change in contract to city court. Motion to approve items 7 through...
 18. Seconded by Council Member Fairleather. Item 19, report of bids Group 903A. Motion to send finance items 19 through 21. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item 22, report of bids water distribution system. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 23, appoint exterminator. Motion to send civil service items 23...
 through 25. so my cousin from columbia who has student here today for the record uh from his from buffalo state college history of buffalo taking the class of the history of buffalo thank you sir from the police department item 26 drug acid forfeiture wire transfers motion to receive and file second by council member columbia 27 permission except funding under pcjs
 Motion is sent to finance and the police oversight. Seconded by Councilman Fontana, who has the floor. Just briefly, I was logging on. Item number 13, I think we recorded a negative on item number 13. All right. So you want the, let me finish. So we finished the 27th?
 So the motion is to revisit item number 13, seconded by Council Member Fairletto. Now the motion is to record the Council Member Fontana in the negative on item number 13. All right. Next item. Permit to inspect. License 1320. Motion to, I'm sorry, that's item 28? Yes, sir. Motion to send to ledge items 28, 29, 30, 31.
 32, motion to centralize items 28 through 31. Seconded by Councilman Franczak, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. In regards to item number 29, food store at 859 Fillmore Avenue, I spoke to this in caucus, and I'll follow the advice of the law department on this, is that I'm very familiar with this store because it's in my neighborhood, essentially. Okay.
 If you look at the applicant, Mr. Noor, you can see that even though when he was renovating the property that he owns and he never got a building permit, he subsequently had to go get one because they're doing all this work without a permit. He saw me and came to me in the summer when I was painting my fence out in front, my stockade fence, and
 So he said, could he proceed to open a deli store? And I said, well, yeah, go through the process. And, you know, I talked to him a little bit. Since you're right in my neighborhood, you're right here, you live there. In fact, if you look at the item, you see a little red thumb mark like that. My hands are covered in red stain and paint. I actually stamped where my name was, and then I think I signed it. So go ahead. Well, what happened was this fall –
 is that at this address there were, I late filed some letters to the police department, the C precinct, Barbara Lark and to Mr. Durenda,
 and to Pat Sowell Inspections because what the tenants of this property had been doing, his tenants of his property, was setting up card tables in front, and they were set up on the iron bars in the front of this proposed valley. They had put up children's clothing and sneakers and children's various memorabilia,
 items for sale, selling. And so we're watching and we said, gee, there's no mothers with kids saying, hey try the jacket on or buying. It's just cars pulling up, cars pulling up, guys coming out, some kind of exchange made and back into the cars all day long. And I said, this is mighty suspicious. And so I get tacked on my garage door a note from a citizen and it says,
 The man across the street from you sells cigarettes, marijuana, and pills. What are you going to do about it? And so we had pictures taken. I sent some to the council. I think I sent one to the council members, and so I sent...
 I said nine, there's actually 12 photographs of these transactions going on. I contacted the police. So subsequently, Mr. Sowell had sent out Vince Ferraccio and the police and a notice was put on the door that no more, they had no peddler's license for that, but I thought people were saying it's a fraud, it looked very fishy to me. So they tacked the notice on the door, which they promptly tore down. The woman was seen tearing it down.
 And so I talked to the owner this Saturday face to face. I said, listen, why did you own this building? And he does. And I said, you want a deli license and you are allowing this in front. And it seems like there's illegal activities going on here. Selling, I said, drugs and pills and marijuana. And he didn't.
 He didn't say it wasn't. He was like hemming and hawing and everything else. I said you're going to have a problem. So we're sending it to Ledge but the police are on notice. The illegal business that he aided and abetted and condoned is shut down. It's not like somebody set up in front of his place because those were his tenants that did it. So now he wants a deli license and I'm very suspicious.
 I was prepared to say let's just deny this right here, but I said I'll give everybody a fair process. I told them and I said I have very serious reservations about you opening any kind of deli store after what has already been happening and you already allowed violations in front of your property. So I just wanted to state that for the record. Absolutely. If this comes back, you can keep sharp eye on it. Absolutely.
 i remember another council member who went and stood in the store for a day so you know people need to understand how much this council does and pays attention uh the quality of life issues and we've had we've gotten such a better handle on some of these stores great to see a store i mean if you're selling children's clothes
 Nobody ever came out with any clothes. Well, you know, no boots. No jacket No, it was those kids little kids jackets that were all up on the bars. It was Sneakers and other items the guy was dressed like Santa Claus and but there were no Being observed for a week or so. There were actually no any
 mothers and kids coming to buy kids clothes. It was just single guys coming in cars, one car after another pulling up and there's a supportive movement. And then I get this note tacked to my, it looked fishy to me for sure, then I get this note tacked on my garage door saying that somebody knows something about what's going on there more specifically and they said
 It sells, the man across the street sells cigarettes, marijuana, pills, etc. What are you going to do about it? And it's signed here, your neighbors. So I did something about it. I reported to the police. I reported to Pat Sol. Pat Sol shut him down. Can you do me a favor? Can you all push in? And the reason is because that way you're recorded in the system. And we show our students our new toys. Council Member. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 We did meet with the law department this morning regarding food store licenses. There are times we deny food store licenses before the police department has had a chance to look at it or the fire department or treasury.
 And as we deny them, it becomes arbitrary and pretentious and sometimes they have to defend that and those folks in court normally win in cases like this. So now we have to be a little more careful when we deny to make sure that the process is actually taking place because there have been incidences where we have approved without the police report. And if we deny without the police report, that certainly they can use against us in court.
 And we should approve it. If we say no, there should be a reason. Council Member Rasheed Ncya. Thank you, sir. And I think we can go a little bit further because when you look at the deli stores, I have my staff going out and checking some of the stores. And, you know, we give a deli license, but it seems as though they've morphed into something more than a deli, where you can buy hair, you can buy clothes,
 prepared food, you can buy clothing, and I think that's something that we've asked Corporation Council to kind of look into to see what we can do to regulate that. But I think that's some of the problem that we've experienced with the EBT card, is some of the misuse of EBT cards, because when you go into the deli store, you can get so much,
 So now it's become criminalized that I work with the ABT car and I can do other things. As well as in my district, there's a couple of delis that have their lots used as used car dealers. They've got three or four cars there to sell cars. So we want to get a handle on this before it gets totally out of control. I thought we got control, but I do think that we need to look at some other levels of how do we justify a store having care, having clothing when you have a deli license.
 I don't think it's a retail license. It's a value license. So we have to have, you know, a corporation council look at that, see how we can regulate it more to kind of rein it in to be more appropriate because I do think that it's leading to the criminal element of what's going on with these EBT cards.
 It's a shame because I mean people go to Target now, they go to Walmart, they go to buy their hair. Well, I don't know if you buy hair. Can you buy hair, Chris? I think you can, you know, you go in there, you buy groceries, you buy... I guess I'm the one who should know where they sell hair. You buy hair...
 So I do understand, especially in a community where people are not driving, to have those conveniences around. But I agree with you, Councilmember White. We should look at how it is regulated. Maybe they should be getting a different type of license than just a deli license. I know that we have one store in Fillmore, sorry, Councilmember, in Ellicott,
 that when we gave them the license they even said they weren't going to sell such such such as like they're selling every bit of it right now and they they've gone against what was on their license you know sometimes like a dog chasing you know tell the people and
 in a neighborhood want it, so I don't want to take away the convenience for the people in the neighborhood, but I do think that if there was some type of other license that they, to me, the cost of a deli license and the cost of, for instance, a retail license for doing multiple sales should be a lot different. Alright, did I get everybody? Alrighty. Thank you all. Next slide.
 Did we do item number 30? Item 30, we have marked the legislation. That is approved with conditions, item 30. Revisit item number 30? Motion is to revisit item number 30, seconded by Councilmember Fairleather. Motion is now to approve with conditions. The motion is to approve with conditions filed by a district councilmember who has the floor. Or is this for you? You didn't mean to ring him? All right. So he doesn't. Who is the district councilmember?
 Oh, we went back to that. To approve with conditions filed by the district council member, council member Franczak. Next item. Item 32, food store license 179, military. Mr. Chairman, can we revisit item 31 now? Motion is to revisit item 31 second by council member Franczak. Motion is now to approve. The motion is to approve second by council member Franczak.
 Item 32, food store license 179, military. Motion to approve items 32 and 33. Take away, Council Member Franzen. Item 34, used car dealer 1367, Bailey. Motion to send to ledge item 34, 35, and 36. Say my council members, see you later.
 Item 37, appoints Fleming and Sander. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 38, permission to request auction scrap of non-working equipment. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item 39, seconded by Porter Gap. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 40, extension of G-Techno contract. Motion to approve items 40 and 41. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 42, item recalled from Mayor.
 Motion to receive and file items 42 through 45. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Item 46, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt items 46 and 47.
 Seconded by Councilmember Franzen. Item 48, notice of appointment, seasonal flat. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 49, notice of appointment, temporary or provisional permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Let me pause just for a minute because we do have some exchange students here as well as
 other students who are in the room and people are watching so I know a lot of times I get asked the question how do you know who's going to second and we have a caucus the day before or earlier today to talk about all of these items so if a person is against it an item we usually know so we won't call that person's name for a second because that's probably the most asked question how did you know councilmember for your letter wanted to second
 So they don't really get a choice. They just call their name. And then if somebody is in a negative, like Councilmember Fontana was on an item earlier, then usually it will happen right at that time. But if not, we go back to that item. Councilmember Fontana, you have the floor. If we could revisit item number 38.
 There's an environmental concern. Motion to revisit item 38. Second by Council Member Fontana. This item is now before. They're looking to scrap these items, and I'm going through the list. I thought it was cars, but it's not. It's equipment. It looks like VCRs, cameras, potentially some computer monitors. I don't want to see these scrapped. They should be recycled. So the terminology is wrong.
 And I don't know why we would sell it. Who's going to buy broken equipment? So I'd like to put it in the approving motion that if not sold, it would be recycled, not scrapped. Any objections to that? All right. Then as stated by the council member. Thank you. All right.
 Miscellaneous items, item 50, community liaison ABA of West New York. Motion to send to ledge items 50 and 51. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item 52, brownfield cleanup, 1360 Niagara. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Petitions, item 53, use...
 112, Genesee to place the sidewalk cafe and ROW. Motion to send to ledge, city planning board, and public work. Seconded by Council Member Pierre Leto. Item 54, use 1456 hurdle for outdoor dining and existing restaurant. Motion to send items 54 and 55 to ledge and city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 55A, Rugby Overlay Parking District. Motion to approve.
 Second by Council Member Franza. So another explanation just for those who are watching, when you hear a letter behind an item, it is usually a late file. So it didn't get to the council or clocked in on time by Thursday at 2 o'clock. So anything that comes before us after that time is considered a late file.
 If one council member objects to a late file, it goes to the next meeting. It only takes one. It's not a majority rule. I think in my six years here, I've only had one, and it was against me. I think I filed something. I had a few. You had a few, and I remember one council member objected.
 objected and I thought well they don't have five votes well I was wrong I was on the floor at that time so it's good to teach the public teach people kind of what we do and why we do next item committees civil service item one appoint principal accountant civil service oh you okay all right but call that item first and I'll get that yep approve item number one through eleven second by council member Ferraletto who has a floor
 for the Park Overlay District for rugby. Just so everyone knows, Rugby Road is a one block street between Bolden and Linden. So there's 50, there's a total of 50 houses on the street on the one block, and over 35 of the houses already have parking pads. A lot of the parking pads were put in over 10 years ago when people purchased the house, they were already there.
 And the building inspectors have recently gone out there over the winter and were citing people for having park beds, and they didn't have permits for them when they got the work done. So the block club asked to have a meeting with my office. My office met with over 30 residents who live on the street. They did a petition. Forty of the 50 homeowners signed a petition.
 position asking that they have an overlay parking district. That way all of their parking pads are legal. They won't have to replace the parking pad or replace where the curb cuts are because they've been there for, a lot of them have been there over 10 years. So that's the next one. Thank you. Thank you. So they're going to get to keep them? All right. Those are where they put the little black top right in the ground. Next item. Item 12, notice of appointments temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to receive and file.
 Thank you, Vice Councilor. Thank you. Finance Committee, Item 13, report of bids, Hennepin Park Community Center. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader McBear. Item 14, bond resolution, purchase of fire apparatus. All right, if everybody's okay with the bond resolutions, we've all looked at them, 14 through and including. Let's go all the way down to 31. Motion to approve.
 Second by Council Member DeLong. Item 32, bond resolution, dilapidated structures, demolition. A few more here, 32 through 34, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franfitt. Item 35, first quarter gap. 35 and 36, motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Community Development, item 37, concerns lodging house license 296, Ellicott. Motion to receive and file items 37 and 38. Second by Council Member DeLong.
 Item 39, support for New York Health Act. Motion to adopt. Second by Majority Leader Clear. Legislation. Thank you. Thank you very much. I just want to recognize members of CWA, two local chapters. I'd like to thank the campaign for New York Health Act. Certainly we've talked about health issues,
 insurance companies and what drives our healthcare industry today is profits and not really the healthcare needs of the folks. Many of these large corporations fund or allocate hundreds of millions of dollars for administrative costs and executive
 cost, and that's money that can be going towards health care. Universal health care, which is currently in the New York State Assembly, allows for universal health care a single year.
 a payer fund that everybody contributes and provides health insurance to all of New Yorkers. Right now we have 2 million New Yorkers without health insurance and that to me is a concern especially now with what's happening on a national level in terms of the anxieties and the stress of people not knowing whether or not they're going to have health care
 to meet the needs for them and their family. So certainly I want to thank all of the council members that have supported this resolution. It has passed in the Assembly in 2015-2016. It's currently in the New York State Senate. This asks our senators to listen to their constituents. If you listen to their constituents, there's no doubt about it, they want health insurance. So we want our...
 delegation, especially our western New York delegation, our senators, to speak out for the residents of their districts because at some point you have to listen to the folks. So I just want to thank all of those that have been organizing in New York State. To also reach out to your New York State senators. This will be going to our elected officials and New York State senators.
 And we hope that you do the same and actively contact them and let them know how you feel in regards to health insurance. And I want to thank Councilmember Wingle, Councilmember Rasheed Wyatt, who's been a strong proponent of this as well. So thank all the councilmembers that support this resolution. Thank you, Mr. President. You know, thank goodness that we live in New York State.
 There are states like Kentucky, where many hundreds of... It's a red state, where many hundreds of thousands of people are on the Affordable Care Act, and they are in a very dire situation right now, because at least here in New York State, there's an opportunity for the state to step up and provide those basic human rights services that every American should deserve. Now, the thing that always amazed me,
 is that you always see on the local news broadcasts as a family where a little baby or girl or father or somebody gets terribly, terribly sick, and they have to go on a GoFundMe page because their operation or their procedure is not...
 taken care of by their health care or they have to raise all this money for not frivolous surgery but for you know like even with our health care is that if there's something like you know you can't get designer glasses but you can get regular glasses or
 There are certain procedures, you know, I had my cataract surgery and they said, well, you know, you'd be covered in your health care if we use the scalpel and we use the knife. But if you want laser, LASIK and all that, they're going to pay out of pocket. So I understand that, but we're covered for our basic needs. So when I see all these GoFundMe pages and these people are dying of cancer and they've got to raise $100,000, I said, what kind of...
 What are we doing in this country? How is this even permissible? So, you know, what President Obama did was a tremendous victory for untold millions who had been frozen out of the system. Because what happens is, if you don't have any money, you're going to be a drain on everybody else anyway, because you can't afford to pay for it. They can't let you die in the street. And on the other hand,
 If you're paying for insurance, they had the New York State got rid of this a long time ago but the whole notion of pre-existing condition was taken away from New York State. But I do remember when pre-existing condition could stop you from having surgery. I remember I had shoulder surgery many years ago when I was in my 20s. I dislocated my shoulder. I had to pay $600, it's a lot more now, out of pocket.
 pre-existing condition. Your insurance didn't cover that shoulder problem, but New York State got rid of it, but Obamacare got rid of that. Health care is a basic right. This was tried in all the great programs that were put in by Franklin Roosevelt in the Great Depression.
 And I think, you know, the merit of State of the City, and a quote from Franklin Roosevelt, I'm probably going to butcher it, but it's the fact that, you know, it's not a question of giving more to the wealthy. It's a question of making sure that everybody else has enough wealth.
 or poor people have enough. And he tried getting into health care, even though he had a Democratic Congress and Senate. And he put in all the alphabet soup programs. I mean, my own family, my uncle and my grandfather lost his house. He had to dig ditches. They were thrown out of work. My father had to get a coaster wagon of coal to heat the rental house they had. If it wasn't for WPA, NRA, CCC, my uncles would never have had any work. And they did. And one uncle was always complaining of an asthma problem.
 And, you know, so his brothers were saying, geez, he kind of really realigned too much in his asthma problem, you know, not to work around the house. But they sent him out to the state of Washington. He was chopping trees. The CCC came back a healthy man and all that was gone. So it was a very important thing. But Roosevelt could not get in health care.
 Truman could not get in healthcare. So all these years later, for whatever flaws might be in it that could be fixed, Barack Obama got in healthcare. And it was the right thing to do. And it was what every advanced Western country in the world has healthcare as a basic human right, and it's paid for. I'm not saying
 that you know it's all free for everybody we pay we pay in and everybody should pay in but the fact is is that people that can't pay for people that are frozen out it's a dreadful thing and to say that we're going to repeal and replace replace with what?
 If they replace it with vouchers, where are people going to get the money to pay for those vouchers? So, the fact of the matter is, people have got to sell their houses, they've got to buy medication and things of that nature, living in poverty. So the point is, at least New York State and the two councilmen, I think Mr. Rivera and Mr. White had a press conference, this council supports this.
 Thank goodness in New York State, at least we have some progressive thinking about this basic human need. Some of these other states, like, you know, I was reading about, again, the state I mentioned earlier,
 What's going to happen if all that's taken away there? So thank our lucky stars at least we have a state where proper monies are spent, not squandered, but spent. Can you imagine people dying because they can't get the right health care, the right medicine for their diabetes, the high blood pressure and everything else? That's insane. That's insane.
 so this is what government should be doing not replacing the private sector not providing you know doing everything for everybody but this is something to have a healthy citizens is is what this country should be promoting fighting here uh... we get good health care in the city thank god congressmen you know what it's a hearings of some these congressmen show up they say that you know what uh... we want your health care we want your health care
 I mean, we're on the Affordable Care Act, and if you take that away from us, we have nothing. So if they say repeal or replace, they better replace it with something that does the job. But at least in New York State, we know that if they don't, which is entirely possible, at least if this passes and goes through, we have a fighting chance. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to thank our majority leader, David Rivera, for his leadership on this. Sometimes we don't know what's going on until someone presents it, and I think this is something that I'm very proud that my colleagues and I all see eye to eye on this basic necessity for New York State residents as well as American citizens with the –
 efforts by the Republicans in trying to repeal Obamacare to put individuals in a situation where they were some several years ago is just unconscionable. So I'm thankful that we have seen the light in preparing something that will make sure that there's a safety net if the Republicans don't bring something forth that replaces Obamacare. We will make sure that the residents of New York State have health care.
 One of the richest countries in the world, and we have individuals who have no health care. I said during the press conference, one of the things that we kind of overlook
 is the financial impact on family. There's always stress when you can't make sure that your family has the necessities they need for their health care. But the other things that happen after that, when you have to go to the emergency room and you're not getting the proper health care and how it affects your credit and how it affects your financial standing, these are things that are overlooked that some people take for granted.
 So again, I want to thank the union for standing and for again, majority leader for taking the stand and making sure that we as a collective make our voice loud and clear that we want the assembly to support this and pass it so that no matter what Washington does, New York State residents are protected and covered. Thank you. Excellent. Next item.
 legislation committee item 40 lodging house license 333 Elmwood if there are no objections motion to approve items 40 and 41 second by majority leader for beer item 42 used car dealer license 419 Broadway approve with condition second by president pro tempest item 43 used 532 main to rec 2 monuments 9 that remains without rec and it awaits the pleasure of the district council member um
 I apologize. Oh, that was fine. Two monument signs at the hotel. The hotel. Yeah, that's fine. It went to plan. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item 44, in rem property transfer concerns. Motion received and filed. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item 45, food store license 1345 East Sullivan. Motion to approve with condition. Second by Council Member White. Resolution with item 56 of point legislative assistant. Motion to adopt.
 Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item 57, waive fees for Subaru 4 miles. Motion to approve items 57, 58, and 59. Second by Councilmember Pratt. Item 60, local law amending Article 7 hiring requirements, audit and control. Motion to send to ledge.
 Second by Council Member Bransley. Item 61, waive special event fees for Buffalo Cherry Blossom Festival. Motion to approve items 61, 62, and 63. Second by Council Member Rivera. I'm sorry, Council Member White, were you waiting to speak? All right. Next item. Item 64, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt.
 Second by Council Member Friend. Item 65, waive special event fees for University United Festival. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 66, Commissioner of Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt Item 66 and 67. Second by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to go back to Number 64. Motion to revisit Item 64. Are you going to change the motion or do you just want to speak? No, I just want to speak on it. All right. Mr. Morrison.
 You know, we don't, in the University of Michigan, unfortunately, we don't have very many events that fees get way more. So this is one event that, this is the third year that we're doing this event. And I just want to alert the community and the University that we're going to have our third annual United University Festival. And last year we had Freddie Jackson. We had a great turnout. We thank the University of Buffalo being a great partner.
 Again, this is about bringing unity to the community and making certain that our community is aware of what's going on and make us proud. You know, so many negative things happen that we need things to make us feel good about where we live. And I know for a long time the university didn't have a lot of activities, but now we have them. We just had an event for...
 Christmas that everyone was excited about. So we're trying to bring a vibrancy back to this community that people will want to come and invest in this community. We have to understand there's a correlation between activities and things that happen. There's no activities, no one wants to invest. When there's activities, there's excitement, people want to invest. So that's what I'm trying to do when I do this. This is not about concerts and parties. This is really about bringing attention to the University District and making us feel proud and
 Hopefully that people will come and do investment. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Next item. 568, Council Member Wingo, excused from meeting.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular Committee's Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, February 28th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, February 28th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, February 28th, 2 p.m. Special Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, February 28th, 530 p.m. Council Member, announcements from your districts or Council Member White?
 Thank you, sir. I just want to announce this coming Saturday, February 25th, at St. Lawrence Church, we'll have our quarterly breakfast. We hope that everyone will come out. This normally is very packed.
 This meeting we're going to talk about appraisals and mortgage rates as it relates to our home ownership. Our most important investment in our community is our homes. So we hope people come out at 9 a.m. sharp. Please call my office and RSVP so we make sure you have enough food, 855-5165.
 Secondly, we want to let people know about the community meetings regarding our food license renewals. This is your opportunity to be empowered. Again, thankful that Councilmember University Lovejoy District Councilmember Rich Fontana and I are doing this collectively because, again, this is something that affects both of our communities. So when you come out, you come out united to make certain that these deli owners are doing the right things as well as giving people a voice.
 so that if there's problems that we can address it early. We're not giving people licenses to just do whatever they want, but to make sure they're meeting the needs of the community. So that's going to be taking place Thursday, March 2nd, and Monday, March 6th at 995 Kensington from 530 to 7. So you just got to come. Just be there. If you're a Black Club president, we really encourage them to come because those are the important people in our community to make sure their message is loud and clear that we want a united community
 and we want to make sure that we have good deli stores in our community. The last thing is we're going to have a cleanup sponsored by the tool library on Monday.
 March 4 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. off of Main Street and on March 11 from 10 to 1 on Bailey. So if you're interested you can contact the tool library and make sure that you're available to assist in making sure our community is beautiful. Thank you. Alright, do you have a note? Do you have a breakfast? No breakfast.
 But the community meetings that we have with Rasheed, that he came up with this great idea, is a great opportunity for residents of the neighborhood to come and face the deli owners right head on head. They could tell us exactly what's going on. They're being graded. Their businesses are being graded. All too often, people will complain in the stores, but they won't go the extra step. So this gives the residents a real good forum
 to meet with the police, the councilman, and the deli owner to solve problems in their stores and inspections. And the owners then know that they could be called to the carpet at this meeting once a year, so they really start to change their behavior. The guy on William Street that I berated last year, he's been calling me now when he has problems. He actually calls me in. I don't understand why he can't do it, but he calls me and says, you know, there's drug dealers in my parking lot. So, you know, we'll go there, we'll get the police. I said, call the police. He's afraid to call the police.
 But I've taught this gentleman that if you own a business in the city, you can't be afraid to call the police. You have to be able to call the police. If you're afraid of retribution, then just close up and go somewhere else. You have to be able to run your business. And if the drug dealers know that you're afraid, they will use your spot.
 When they know that you're not afraid, it's the case that they'll leave. So you can't show your weaknesses to the drug dealer. It's not like Chicago where these guys are huge mobsters. These are losers in a car with some drugs trying to sell it. That's what they are. These aren't big-time mobsters. I'm not afraid of them, but these drug store owners are sometimes. So let them come in, talk to us, and tell us what's going on. And we don't want to be like Chicago, that's for sure.
 Saturday, though, if anyone's sick of being in the house, all council members are invited. The great Mr. Michael Cacciatore from the Impact Team, retired for a few years, is still very active in the Lovejoy community. He's the president of Head East.
 And him, my wife Dee, and Mike's wife Stephanie have been planning a great cabin fever party for all the people of Lovejoy area and wherever they want to come from. Come from anywhere you want. We'll be at Hennepin Park Saturday night from 6 to 9. Thanks to the Parks Department for letting us use the building. We're going to have entertainment, food, games for the kids, and it'll be a nice time. Mike will have his music set up, and we will be there Saturday this week in February at 6 p.m.
 you all right I'm not have some fun ahead of in park it's over at 24 Ludington Street in the cities of love to I did all right comes members anything else all right let's do a journey second by customer friends that