Late for us. Okay, we're live. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Present. Councilmember Farrelletto? Here. Councilmember Golumbac? Here. Councilmember Nowakowski? Here. Council President Pridgen? Aki. Majority Leader Rivera? Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo?
 present council member Wyatt here form is present let's stand for the pledge thank you very much we will have our invocation by the reverend Dr. Al Warner thank you council president sometimes in my role as chaplain it's a joy to serve other times it's sobering
 Two weeks ago, you may remember I shared about the importance of the memoriams that our council takes time to observe every time we gather in full session, why they're important to us and to our city. But as important as memoriams are this week, the very best thing is the memoriam that no one has to share. In the tragic events of McKinley High School with 14-year-old Sergio Jeter stabbed multiple times, security guard Brad Walker shot.
 There's not a memoriam today for either. Thank God. Let me say that again. Thank God. I'm sobered. Everyone on the council in our city, every parent and student are all sobered by what happened, and we're praying for a full recovery for Sergio, of course. Several of you were on camera and on radio responding to the horror after the event as microphones were circulated
 I don't want to be political, but I do pray wisdom for each of you and you collectively as a consult in determining the role in securing safety for all the children of Buffalo. That's the heart and the passion I heard of many of you as you came to microphones. What can we do? I also want to pray, of course, for students and all those in education for a safe and healthy environment in which to study and learn and thrive.
 And I know that's the heart of each of you leaders as well. The scripture is a simple one. Psalm 127, three children are a gift from the Lord. And every one of us resonates with the gift that kids are and the guardianship and protection that they need. Bow with me in prayer, would you? Father, so much changed just a few days ago in this tragic event at McKinley High School.
 Lord, I was sobered and emotional as I was watching and reacting and responding to other people reaching out to me and me reaching out to others. Lord, we right now pray for Sergio Jeter, and we pray even as he's recovering from severe injuries. And Lord, touch his young body and bring it to full health. We thank you that Brad Walker has been released. But Lord, there's so much that happened in all of this. We take time to thank you.
 that no one died in the horrific events of that afternoon. Lord, I pray now, recognizing that the council is looking for the role it can play moving forward. And Lord, that everyone on the council wants our kids safe.
 Safe to learn, safe to grow, safe to thrive. And Lord, we pray even now that safety over students and everyone who serves students in the educational system, from principals, administrators, staff, everyone at every phase of that. Lord, your guardianship and protection. We thank you. The psalmist reminds us children are a gift from you.
 And today, Lord, we celebrate the gift and we ask once again, as only you can, that you would help us and you yourself guard and shield them from all harm. We ask in the powerful name of your son. Amen. Thank you, Captain Warner, for such amazing words and amazing prayer at this time in our city. I mean, I think you were correct. Every council member has asked, what else can we do? So thank you.
 Councilmember Zamora, Councilmember Golombic.
 Thank you, Mr. President. North District lost an old friend of mine from many, many years ago, Alex Porter. Alex Porter was a grandfather of Heather Machin, who works in human resources. I worked with Alex when we worked bingo back in the early 1990s. Alex was originally from five nations, six nations, Brantford, Canada.
 Mohawk member of their First Nation and just a great guy. He was pre-deceased by his wife and his leaving and his daughter, and he's leaving one daughter and quite a few grandchildren, including Heather. He's gonna be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Today I ask that the City of Buffalo and the friends and the family of Daisy Nally. I am asking that the City of Buffalo keep the family lifted in prayer. She was my grand, and for the last 30 or plus years, she has been part of just about every significant moment of my life, from council becoming council member to council.
 singing at my installation as pastor of the church to hosting her 90th birthday party at Antioch, singing for my mother's 60th or 70th birthday party. She has been instrumental in the music ministry in the city of Buffalo, a pillar in the national GMWA. She has been recognized all across this country because of the gift that God has given to her
 to share her gift as a songbird. She has always been my songbird. She has always been the person who I look to when there was a special occasion that she could just always make better. She was a loving and strong woman. Her daughter, Denise, was my piano teacher, taught me how to play the piano. And for that reason, I believe I am where I am today because of that gift.
 that her daughter imparted to me. Daisy and Ali will be sorely missed by the Mastin District. She lived right over on Brunswick and in Hamlin Park. Hamlin Park will miss Daisy and Ali and the faith-based community will miss Daisy and Ali. The services are going to be streamed live on Facebook on this Friday and Saturday.
 There will be a musical in her honor because music was her life and she made life musical. And that will be from 5 to 8 on Friday. And then again, too, there will be a wake at 11 o'clock at Antioch and then another funeral, the funeral at 12 o'clock.
 on Friday, on Saturday. But again, the services for Daisy Nally are Friday from five to eight. That will be the musical. And then the Waking Funeral at 11 and 12 on Saturday at Antioch, all services at Antioch. Thank you, Council President. I know that she's graced your church and your microphones. Her voice has come through your speakers. And I mean, the church was better because of it.
 Everyone who heard her sing, even at 80 and 90 years old, could not believe the power that her lungs still had at that age. So I thank God for allowing me to be part of her life and her to be part of mine. She literally, Council President and colleagues, she adopted me 30 years ago and I became her grandson. And that's not a situation that I had ever taken lightly.
 So I wish that you will continue to pray for my family and of course the family of Daisy Nally in particular, for children, Denise, Ricky, and Nita. Please keep them living and all of her grandchildren and great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren and all of her extended family.
 She is worthy of all of our respect and honor as we lift her up and her family today with this council. And we will be providing her bio to the Common Council. And I'm going to ask that all council members please sign the proclamation that we'll be giving to the family on Saturday. But you're going to get three of those because she has three children left.
 and we want each of them to have their own proclamation from the council. So, Council President, forgive me, but I'm going to ask for three of those that we sign, that all of us sign, all three, to ensure that all of our children receive a proclamation. Thank you for your time and indulging me in this moment. Appreciate it. Not a problem, and you don't have to apologize. She is worthy of that honor.
 Council member, I think I saw Bowman and then Councilmember Scanlon, President Hilton. Thank you, Council President. I wanted to put in the names of Stephanie and Stella Schultz. They were the victims in a tragic fire on White Street last week in my district. A 30-year-old mother and the daughter was two and a half years old.
 It's really devastated our community. And we're trying to rally around the family in their time of need. I grew up down the street and I knew this family growing up, they were always active and our beggars night,
 celebrations and around Halloween time and just always active and a great family and it's such a sad story but we're all trying to comfort them in their time of need and you know they have a GoFundMe that is starting to you know really build up so the whole city of Buffalo community is rallying behind them but we're very sorry for their loss. I also wanted to mention Linda Friedenberg passed
 She was our city of Buffalo and Erie County board of block clubs president for many years. And she certainly worked closely with my office over the years and, you know, built up many block clubs that have
 you know, changed the face of entire streets and block clubs have become a strong force for residents to take back their street. And Linda and Ada were wonderful in building those block clubs up and in giving people power in the resources that you're able to have by, you know, having access to police chiefs, inspectors, and just the many things that come along with being a block club.
 President, so we thank Linda Friedenberg for her efforts. And then also Mr. Rich Lee, he was also associated with Board of Block Clubs for many years. He had a quirky personality, a lot of fun. He would always come hang out at the office, but he was a great servant to the city of Buffalo in that role as Board of Block Clubs.
 um personnel but also he worked for a former congressman la false and um the united way so uh mr richly was a great employee for the city of buffalo as well thank you mr president thank you uh president
 Thank you, Council President. I'd like to ask that we please keep on our thoughts and prayers to the family of Ms. June Barnes, who passed away after a long illness recently. Ms. Barnes is an incredible asset, an incredible woman. Like I said, an incredible asset to not just South Buffalo, but the entire city of Buffalo community. Ms. Barnes worked for a long time for CETA and the Buffalo Sewer Authority and was always a smiling face around City Hall and formed many, many lifelong friendships here. She's also a longtime member of the First Ward and...
 South Buffalo Democratic Committee. She was always involved in politics, her parish, her family, her community in every way she possibly could. She was so involved that this council, this body actually declared January 13th, 1995, June Barnes Day at the time. So she was an incredible asset, as I said, an incredible woman. She's going to be sorely missed by her five kids or 10 grandkids and her three great grandkids, as well as an army of friends and admirers.
 Also, I just learned this shortly before the meeting that Ms. B. Elizabeth Austin, the mother of Michelle Austin Brown and the mother-in-law of Mayor Byron Brown passed away. I believe Sunday night it was. So I just want to offer my condolences to Michelle and to the mayor and to their extended family. Thank you. Any others? Yes.
 I want to remember Bishop R.L. Livingston. He pastored on Main Street. He also pastored in Lackawanna. Just a very humble man. He was bi-vocational for a very long time and then retired from his civilian job to lead his church full-time. His services are going to be at the Elam
 uh fellowship um and uh believe tonight is a a wake and tomorrow uh is the service and i also wanted to just dovetail on what councilmember wingo said the last time that i saw miss nollie she was leaving out of i believe calvary baptist church and there's a lot of steps
 And, uh, I was leaving out the same time and I asked her if she needs some help. And she said, boy, yeah, get over here. That was only like a year ago. And I did exactly what she said and got her down. And her daughter was bringing up the car to receive her. Uh, but she, you are right. Council member, um,
 She did grace true Bethel and even in her older age and we will ask her to come she couldn't stand for very long we give her a chair, and no matter what she's saying the house would just explode in excitement.
 So I know you have a tough duty in front of you to say farewell because of your relationship with her. That was real. And she embraced musicians and preachers and the church and she just loved God. So it was appropriate to take that long of such a giant, everybody to take such this time for such a giant. Council Member Wingo.
 Mr. President, I really appreciate you sharing that. She really was a spitfire and her children are no different. But you're right, everywhere she went, she made an impression. And one of the last things I'll say about it is we were at the house when she passed away. All of her children, of course, they all have beautiful voices and Nita was holding her hand
 and Gran was laying there and as they sang, Gran, right before she passed away, she did this. She said, like, all right guys, all right. And you know how she would do her thing when she was singing. So I just thought that was a beautiful moment that I thought I'd share, but I really appreciate all of the love that has been given, all of the condolences that have been sent. And again, too,
 The next day, Councilmember Skellig is absolutely right. We got word that, you know, Michelle Brown's mother, Bea, passed away. So we are absolutely praying for the family of Michelle Brown, Mayor Brown, and their family. I'd be remiss if I didn't say that. We're praying for them as well. Thank you very, very much. Absolutely. And maybe next week as we close out, we're ready to close out Black History Month or our next meeting, you know,
 is it if you could maybe find us a tape of Miss Nalu from just blessing and we played four or five minutes of it I think it would be wonderful to bless this. Oh Council President I have plenty my Janelle is on the job I have
 videos on my phone and Janelle, my 12 year old, she is on the job. She's going to compile me the videos of Grand Sister Nally on my phone. And I will absolutely be happy to play that at the next meeting. If you like, I'll be happy to do that. Thank you. Thank you. Any others?
 All right. For all of these important names that were called today. And of course, for any man or woman who was given their life for the freedom of our country, the freedom of any other country. We also remember those who are standing guard in the Ukraine. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. We do have two special presentations. The first one.
 I'd like to present to the, and they are on, many are on, to my neighbors, actually, right down the street from my house, but I have been involved with them before I moved into their neighborhood. They were there much before me, and that is the African American Cultural Center.
 Buffalo is a locally recognized cultural center that has uplifted the rich history of African Americans through its commitment to cultural diversity, personal growth, and a positive sense of self. It is a contributor to the spiritual direction, Yoruba dance, song, and rhythm. The cultural center is along Mastin Avenue from Glenwood Avenue on the north past the New Hope Church of God in Christ.
 The African American Culture Center in Buffalo has been a part of the African American community for over 64 years, originally near Glenwood Avenue. Whereas members began their first drumming lessons the following decade would see the Cultural Center be a catalyst for ancestral history, the jambalaya
 summer program, the inspirational Paul Robeson Theater, the Pine Grill Jazz Reunion, and more. Now, therefore, we the members of the City of Buffalo Common Council recognize the African American Cultural Center for the historical impact they have had on the City of Buffalo, and this is signed by not one, not two, not three, not four, not five, not six, not seven, not eight, all
 or all of all nine members of the Common Council has signed this resolution and they did it with a smile and I want to thank you all if anybody sees the archways when we cut the ribbon on the archways it was the dancers from the
 African American Culture Center that helped us to unveil, inaugurate, christen, whatever word you want to use. They are in our community. They are valuable to our community. And we take this time, not just in this month, but every month to recognize their contribution to our community.
 Having said that, who's representing the center? Please introduce anyone who's on. If any of my colleagues have something to say after she's introduced them, you'll be able to. Good evening, council members. So honored and appreciative of the board. I have board members on with me. I have our board president, Dorothea Baxon-Hughes, Marilyn Gause. I think I saw Linda Bronner.
 And I think that's it. But from my own personal, they can speak on their own. I would really appreciate this opportunity that you've taken the time to acknowledge the African-American Cultural Center. As you said, the agency has been here for many, many years and have touched many, many lives and continue to do that as of this day. We're looking for things to even get bigger and better than what it was in the past. So with your support,
 and working alongside with us to make that happen. We've got a lot of exciting things that we're doing. I'm not sure if you know that we're planning to break ground on a new building, $18.75 million building within the next couple of years or so or less or whatever more, but we're gonna be reaching out to you. I am personally going to make appointments
 to come and sit down with each and every one of you. Some of you I know very well, and some of you I don't. So I'll start with the ones that I don't know.
 and come in and meet with you and talk to you. I know Pastor Bishop Pridgen and I have a long history of each other, talking with each other, knowing each other. But just from the agency's perspective, we are excited about the opportunity that we're looking to have for this center. And I'm happy to be a part
 of what we're doing here. And with that, I'll stop talking and I'll give the floor to my board chair. Thank you again for this opportunity and for recognizing this center as one of the longest standing centers that stands in Buffalo. Thank you. Hello everyone. I want to personally thank each and every one of you. This is definitely an exciting time. As our...
 executive director just mentioned, we are very appreciative. I've been a part of this agency, the African Cultural Center, since I was eight years old. That's only 10, you know, it's only 10 years different. I'm only 18, you know, but I've been a part of this agency. And I know the impact that it has on the community. But that being said, as board chair,
 the agency is looking to be around for a long time and to be able to embrace the community with any any of their needs. We want to have a place where the children could come and get assistance as needed and we just want to make sure that our predecessors, Agnes, which I know all of you probably know, just about all of you, that's our legacy and the religion is something
 We are so excited about, you know, we spoke to the mayor and the council president and numerous conversations, but we are so excited. And we want you all to be excited that we can continue to provide all the services plus more to the community. And we just want to thank each and every one of you personally. We really appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you all. Marilyn, would you like to say something? Okay.
 Great, thank you. Council Member White?
 Thank you, Mr. President. And I just want to acknowledge the impact that the African-American Cultural Center has made over its long stint in the city of Buffalo. And we look forward to even greater things. Just at my breakfast this past weekend, we celebrated the life of Dr. I said, Dr. George K. Arthur. And he and Ms. Baines did a fantastic job in the Pine Grove Union for a long, long time.
 So we pay tribute to them. So when we talk about standing on the shoulders of giants, those two are definitely giants that this cultural center will be being built and representing their longstanding commitment to their community. So I wish my old boss, Ms. Jackie Mines, much success as well as the board and continuing to make a difference in the city of Buffalo, especially in the African-American community, thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Marilyn Galt. I am the vice chair for the board of directors for the African American Culture Center. And I just want to thank you, Council President Pritchett and council members. Please continue to support us. We cannot do what we do and keep the history alive without you. So thank you so much, each and every one of you. Thank you all. We now have a presentation by Council Member Noah Kumsky.
 Thank you Mr. Chair. This weekend the Bangladesh community celebrated and recognized Mother Language Day, which is a time that they celebrate the Bangladeshis who fought for the autonomy of their country and especially their language and culture and heritage. And many districts in out of all nine in the City of Buffalo have thriving Bengali and South Asian populations
 who take pride in themselves and take pride in their history, but also their language, Bangla. So I will introduce two folks, Mr. Booyan and Mr. Reza, and to give a brief presentation on this day and its significance, but also a big thanks to Sahi from my office who always helps collaborate with his community and to our office. So the floor is theirs. Serves. And would you like to do the floor too, comes from? Mr. Reza. Mr. Reza, you have the floor.
 just unmute yourself turn down your background volume and unmute yourself mr reza good afternoon thank you for giving me the flow
 Dear Councilmember and everyone joining me in the meeting today. This is Omri Reza. I'm respecting, I'm representing United Buffalo Foundation.
 UBF, a nonprofit organization. We are working for the community. It is our community. It is our responsibility on your behalf. You went back on mute, sir.
 I'm sorry, can you hear me now? Yes, sir. In Buffalo, we had some very successful events, clothing drive, free mail distribution, a non-retail fee, promoting small business. There are some continuous program of United Buffalo Foundation. We had great support from Buffalo Police and City Officials. Thank you everyone for your support.
 Today I would like to touch base on some very important topic of National Mother Language Day. There are approximately 6500 languages worldwide spoken by different group of people. Mother language is the first language a person has been exposed to from born. In 1952,
 Bengalis in Bangladesh were told to learn a foreign language, while Bengalis used to everywhere. It was hard to accept and protest, police were opened fire and people were killed. Story was being written and was now recognized February 21st as International Mother Language Day.
 In mother language is vital to everyone individual sense of identity and development. Language is the culture of an immense of the communication among people.
 to assembly the importance of all languages and promotes the preservation and protection of all languages. We observe the day as International Mother Language Day. Our city mayor has spoken about it. Thank you very much to the mayor.
 We at the Irredent Buffalo Foundation do not think remembering the day once in the year enough to signify this important day. That is why we would like to request the city to build momentum to assemble the day so our current generation can feel honor and future generation become aware of the story.
 Bengalis are the only ones who had to fight for the right to speak their mother language. The moment we assemble their sacrifice, this project will make millions of Bengalis living in the United States feel proud. This will also assemble
 the freedom of speech and will be an effort to preserve and protect all the languages getting lost as generations change. We at UBA believe it will be a tourist attraction and improve the city economy and reputation. If a moment is to be built, there is no other place in Erie County more
 appropriate than Buffalo, home of thousands of Bengalis and others. Thank you everyone for listening to me. Now we are going to listen to a song performed by UBS team showing respect to the event on February 21st, 1952. Thank you.
 . .
 Thank you. Was that the end of the presentation? Thank you. Yes, that is the end of the presentation.
 Thank you. And it does show that we are one Buffalo. So thank you for Councilmember Nolkowski for the presentation and thank you to those who received the honor and shared with us that selection. All right. Thank you. And those of you who are on for presentations, you can feel free to go about your day. And dear, dear customers. Yes. Is someone trying to be acknowledged?
 already. Councilmember, this was the last speaker and we thank you very much for your time, for giving us the opportunity and as you know, a mother language is vital to every individual sense of identity and development.
 Language is the cornerstone of culture and the means of communication among people. Linguistic diversity and multiculturalism enrich the lives of all Buffalonians and New Workers. Respect, dialogue, and dignity are integral to American will. Thank you, everyone, for listening to me. Thank you.
 If I could say something, I would be remiss. Okay. I didn't acknowledge my pastor. I'm sorry. Yes. Hold on. Oh, I'm sorry. Something about the proclamation or. I'm sorry. We're going to move on, but quickly I can allow. Yes. No, I was just saying, I would be remiss if I didn't acknowledge my pastor. I was so excited over the proclamation. I didn't give respect to him by speaking to him as well, too. Thank you. Who is your pastor? Okay.
 You list is a wing out. You got three pastors on here right now. So I'm sorry, but I want to do it. All right. He's waving at you. All right. Thanks. Have a great day, everybody. All right.
 We took time, but I think everything that was done is appropriate because we are a common council that recognizes our rich diversity in the city of Buffalo. And every city cannot claim that to have this much diversity all power packed into one council meeting.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the meetings of the stated meeting held on February 8, 2022 are approved. We are going to take an item out of order and then continue on with the opening of this meeting. Majority Leader, you're on mute. Motion to take item eight out of order. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number eight, Rules of Order 2022-2023 Amendment. Item's open. What we have asked in this is for this to be adopted at this meeting, which is allowed. There's a motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fairletter. Council Member Scanlon, you have the floor. Thank you, Council President. Is Corporation Council on? Yes, I am.
 Karen, for rules, does it have to go to Rules Committee or no? Just to clarify for the public. Yeah, no, it does. And for the rules, it's treated differently from other agenda items. And it's allowed to be approved by the Common Council in the full council's meeting. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you. Just one other thing. I know this is the way we've always operated. But if we're not always continuously looking for other ways to improve the way we operate, I think we're failing the public. This council, when conducting our business, requires a majority or two-thirds or three-quarters vote for everything we do that I can think of.
 I don't understand why, and I readily admit that it really never crossed my mind until a couple of weeks ago that we allow one person to have that unilateral authority to turn away an item that may be beneficial to the residents of the city of Buffalo, or more importantly, by delaying it detrimental to the city residents. Now, I'm fully aware that the majority leader can refuse to accept a late file. I know that. And in that instance, it's one person refusing it.
 and turning it down, however, the majority leader has that authority because once again, a majority of council members have provided him that authority by voting him or her as the majority leader. What if for example, after a filing deadline and in between that and our meeting, there's an emergency or some quasi emergency or some other legitimate reason
 after the deadline that creates a necessity of a late file and one person for whatever reason, professional, personal, can delay us entertaining the item and perhaps causing harm to the city of Buffalo or its residents. I would like us to see, I'd like to see us change that process where we operate under a system where a majority of council members must object to a late file. So I just wanted to say that for the record before it went to a vote.
 I appreciate that council member and you know this is the item we discussed on last week. One of the reasons when we did the research about why a council that had to be a unanimous vote for late file one of them was transparency to public, because once the agenda is published. The opposite way could also happen in which people just file, for instance, half of the agenda late.
 And as long as there is a majority to say okay, then that agenda would go forward and the public would not have had a chance to see it. In the case that we have had this, and your question or your statement is well received, where there was something that immediate had to happen. In the past, we've been, and we still could, call a special meeting of the council.
 And that meeting is called with five signatures. And we call a special meeting as we have in the past when it's something of an emergency nature. There are also some emergency powers that can be granted like we saw during the pandemic through state. So we're always looking for how we can do things better. All right. Council Member Winkle. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Quickly, I am looking at the item that was filed, and am I to understand that everything underlined is what we are changing, and what is in brackets is what will be removed? Generally, that's the process. Anything on the line should be new, and anything that's in bracket will be removed. Okay, so I'm just asking only because rule number one still has brackets and underlines?
 Then, you know, rule number four still has brackets and underlines. And I don't know if these are intended to be voted on as well. But then in rule number 33 that we're also voting on, there's a change in there that says at said meeting. Is that intended on being taken out as well? As said meeting is intended to be removed.
 Okay, all right. Just making sure. I know it's in the sentence twice, but just for clarity's sake, it makes sense. For clarity's sake. Yes, you're correct. That's why we removed it, because it was there prior, yeah. Now, as far as the other underlines and brackets, we're not considering those, just for the record, correct? Because that's old information that's not being updated. That's correct. Okay.
 Okay, thank you very much. Just for the record, I want to make sure that it's clear that we're not voting on the things in rule number one and four, just on what is in rule number 33. Thank you, Corporation Council. Did I give the clerk a second? No, we need a second. Second by Councilmember Noah Karski. All right. Is there any objections to that? I'm sorry. All I see is a couple of hands. Okay. Councilmember Scanlon? Yeah, I'd just like to be recorded in the negative. Okay.
 anybody else all right that passes so hearing that we'll go back to starting the meeting council members you have the late files before you are there any objections to the late files does not take away your right to pause the meeting in order to review a late file that may have come to us and you did not have a chance to see it from the top item number one a point assistant for external clarification before we get started with the agenda just want a clarification uh we
 Thank you. We just amended the rules and the rules are active as of right now because we adopted those uh rules, correct? Correct. Okay, uh then this the preceding statement was regarding the late files and we still have a right to object. I want to make sure that this is the only opportunity or not
 that a council member has to object to a late file because maybe a council member arrived late to the meeting due to exigent circumstances and they could not be present during that portion of the meeting but later on in the meeting if there was a late father this individual council member did not have an opportunity to view and or review and they were to object to it they could object to it later on in the meeting and then that would also because it is a late file
 cause the item to not exist on this agenda. Is that the case or no? I just need some clarity. No. The question is asked at the beginning of the meeting if there's any objections to the late file. The council member came in late or didn't have a chance to see it. The statement is that you would have the chance to pause the meeting. The council member would then have the opportunity to vote in the negative for an item if they did not feel that they supported it.
 Okay, so they would not be able to objected only during the point that you offer the objection. Yes. Okay. All right. I'm not particularly sure if I agree with that. Well, I understand you may not agree, but the statement is there. You can object at the beginning of the meeting if a council member is late.
 or they want to object to a late file, they have to be at the meeting on time. If not, they have a chance to pause. But the lateness of one council member shouldn't continue to delay the meeting as far as just getting rid of an item because someone came in late. They could always at any time then vote against that item.
 But we because we asked it in the beginning, and we, and no one has objected to that statement, it would be unfair for those who are on time to then say, Oh, by the way, now I want to object to it. And now we're prepared to hear it. I guess to the same point that I guess Councilmember Scanlon may regarding the circumstances to which some things are filed either on time or late.
 Maybe a council member, again, is faced with a situation where they cannot and they are unable to make it to the meeting at that particular moment where it is offered for them to, you know, object to a late file. And then so they missed that opportunity to object to a late file due to circumstances beyond their control.
 Well, it's like any other vote that comes before us. If a council member, when we get ready to start this agenda shortly, is not here for item one and two, they can ask for something to be revisited. It doesn't mean that we have to revote it. However, on a late file, on a late file, and again, this is about transparency. It is not something that we have done. It's something that we can discuss. But at this point, it is not something we have done. Council Member Scanlon.
 Thank you, Council President. Just, I'm sorry. Just one question. Council Member Wingo made me think of this. And I know we're running late because of the presentations. I mean, so I know everyone wants to get the meeting started. But at the beginning of the meeting, when you state that you can object to the late files, do you then state it doesn't prevent you from objecting later or no? No, sir. I say it doesn't, you can pause the meeting to read an item that you may not have had a chance. Okay. Yeah. All right.
 Good points. Thank you. All right. Are we ready? Go to the top. From the top. Item number 1, Appointed Assistant for External Affairs. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 2, Amendment Report of Sale 33, Worcester. This item is open. Deferred to the Council Member. Council Member Wingo. This item for massing is approved. Approved with conditions. With conditions.
 Approve with conditions that are submitted by the council members, seconded by Council Member Wiggins. Mr. Chair, we can approve with condition items two. Go back to the agenda. Item two, three, and four. Motion stands, seconded by Council Member Wiggins for all of those items. Item number five, Certificate of Necessity Capital Projects. We have to have a roll call.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumpak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number five, Certificate of Necessity Capital Projects.
 Motion to receive and file items 5, 6, and 7. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 9, notification serial for installed handicap parking. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Ferraletto. Item number 10, change order for South Ogden Bridge replacement. Motion to approve items 10 through and including, you can scroll up, including 23. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 council member bowman yes council member faroletto yes council member golombak yes council member nolkowski yes council president pridgen yes majority leader rivera yes president pro temp scanlon yes council member wingo council member yes yes item number 24 a point detective
 Motion to send civil service items 24 through 29. Second by President Pro Temp Scammer. Item number 30, Corporation Council, Barbara Johnson-Kurt, 13,500. Motion sent to the Claims Committee, items 30 through 70. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 71, Full Store License 431, aka 429 Grant Street.
 Motion to approve item 72. I don't know about item 73. 73 is going to be sent back to legislation. I need to talk to the owner, please. Motion to approve item 72. All right. Was it 71 and 72? No, 72, 71 and 72. Correct. Second by Council Member Golombin. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes.
 Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Winkle? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 73, food store license 955 Tonawanda. This item is going back to committee. Seconded by Council Member Golombek.
 Item number 74, full store license 276, aka 278, West Ferry. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember White. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Golombek. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Winkle. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes.
 Item number 75, restaurant dance license, Jasmine Lounge. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by Council Member White. Item number 76, used car dealer, 9 South Ogden. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Bowman, who will submit the conditions.
 Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrell. Yes. Councilmember Golanbeck. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. Yes. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes. Item number 77 second quarter gap.
 Motion to send to finance items 77 through 79. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 80, purchase of electronic vehicles for Department of Police. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 81, fire department obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember DeLongbeck. Councilmember Bowman.
 Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombek. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council member Winkle. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 82 has been withdrawn.
 Item number 83, Board of Education Resolution supporting BPAP sidewalk snow removal resolution. Motion sent to CD. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 84, Liquor License Notice. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 85, Appoint Electrical Engineer.
 Motion to send to civil service. Second by President Pro Tempst-Scanlon. Item number 86, appoint mayoral intern. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 87, bicycle and pedestrian advisory board. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 88, canal side modified general project plan. Motion to receive and file items 88 and 89. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Petitions, item number 90, special use 1963 Fillmore for industrial light. Motion sent to legislation and city planning board items 90 through 93. Second by President Pro Tempstam. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint junior collections officer. Motion is to approve item one and including, if you would scroll down, one through five. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Council Member Bowman.
 Council member Farrelletto? Yes. Council member Golombak? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 6, appoint police officers. Motion is to receive and file item 6 and including
 11. Second by the majority leader of here. Finance, item number 12, agreement between Buffalo Water Board and Promise Network. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 13, bound resolution for acquisition of police vehicles. Motion to approve items 13, scroll through and including 34. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman.
 Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombet. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Majority leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council member White. Yes. Council member Winkle. Yes. Community Development, item number 35, report is so, 49 lane. Motion is to approve. Seconded by the majority leader Rivera.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombet? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 36, senior awareness day.
 Motion is to adopt. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 37, Buffalo Place Concerns for Patio Permit Extension. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 38, Report Assault for 131 Theodore. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Bowman who will submit the conditions.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Legislation item number 39, food store license 1482 Broadway.
 Motion is to approve item 39 with conditions, approve 40 and 41 with conditions. Second by Council Member Noah Kosti. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Winkle. Yes.
 Yes. And Councilmember Wyatt. Yes. Item number 42, Lodging House License 1323 Seneca Street. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 43, Used Car Dealer 1426 William. Motion to approve with conditions 43, 44, 45 and approve item 46. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Council member. Council member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. On item number 45, could we actually recommit that instead? There's some conditions we're still working through, and it wouldn't be fair to the applicant to attach the conditions without discussing them with him first. So the one item that will be pulled out of that is item 45, seconded by Council Member White. Okay.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumbac? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Winkle? Yes. And Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Councilmember Fairlatte, you have the floor. Thank you very much. Just briefly, I'd like to touch base on item 46, which we just approved. I want to thank all my colleagues for supporting this item. This is the item that's going to require the Department of Permits and Inspections to inspect a building that's designated as a local landmark.
 every three years. And this came from the ADM building when we found out that it hadn't been inspected, but this is not a shot at the Department of Permits and Inspections. We have, they respond to complaints, concerns when people call 311, council member, or reach their office directly, then they go inspect your property. So this will just make sure that the local authorities
 local landmarks. We have 134 of them are inspected once every three years. I again thank my colleagues. Also thank the Department of Permits and Inspections and the administration. We sat down last week and discussed this with Deputy Commissioner Amder and some other people, and they're completely on board for it. Everyone supports this, and it's great when
 the council administration and department all agree on something and we're all committed for it so thank you everyone absolutely councilmember columbia
 Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank Council Member Faralletto for doing this and for allowing me to co-sponsor it with him. I think that, you know, one of the problems that we've had in the past has been demolition by neglect and that with this piece of legislation and with the new, uh,
 technology that can be used in the departments of permits and inspections. I hope that this will cut back, if not completely eliminate, those types of problems from occurring again in the future. No system is ever going to be perfect, but I think that this will help us to be better than we had been in the past. So I'm very excited to vote for this.
 ordinance and I want once again want to thank Joel for letting me co-sponsor with him. He did most of the work almost all the work. Council Member Noah Kelsky. Thank you just to piggyback off of uh
 Councilmember Golombek, I just want to thank Councilmember Farrelletto for spearheading this and talking about it for a few weeks now and has really done his homework and coming up with an approach that's proactive and making sure that we have our inspections department inspecting landmarks to remediate these problems if an infraction occurs in its infancy stage instead of it being so far advanced in making buildings beyond repair. And he did do all the work and in that light, can I add my name onto this legislation? I'd like to add it's
 the sponsor if I can. The sponsor is favorable to you. Yes, absolutely. I'd like to be added as well. Council member Rivera, council member Wingo, council member Bowman, council member Stanley, council president Pridgen, that's everyone, council member Wyatt, everyone wants to be on this resolution council member. And folks from St. Anne's have been calling about this resolution and saying maybe now
 something will happen with St. Anne's. I don't know what order the inspectors are going to go out there. I don't know if they're going by name, by street. I hope they're going by street because at least F is at the top of the chain because St. Anne's has sat there. And my fear is that that will be another building that we're going to see demolished because of neglect. So this is very welcome in so many communities around the country.
 is city and it shows Buffalo to be one of the leaders then in recognizing the importance of our historical residents. Now, I don't believe everything has to stand, but I think that those places that have been deemed important to our history, to our culture, and to our city, if folks can't afford to fix them, they should let somebody else have them who can. So thank you, council member. So that's everybody on. All right, anything else? We are moving on.
 Item number 47, special use for 819 East Ferry for Neighborhood Shop. Motion is to deny. Second by Councilmember Wingo. And I only see one, three panels. So if anybody has their hand up, let me know. We'll provide the reason and write. Item number 48, food store license 432 East Ferry. Motion is to approve items 48, 49 with conditions, 50 approved with conditions, 51 approved with conditions.
 52. Okay. No, go ahead. 52. 52 is in the South District. Do we have without rec? Can you recommit items 52, 53, and 54, please? Yes. So we will finish the approvals with 51. 51, seconded by Council Member Boyden. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombet? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Yes.
 Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Yes. Item number 52, special use 2227 South Park for tobacco. Motion to recommit 5253 and 54. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon.
 Item number 55, new used car dealership 1642 Elmwood. Motion is to deny. Second by Council Member Golombet. Did you want to state the reason or just follow your reason? No. Council Member Golombet.
 Okay, yeah, Mr. Chair, this was done at the recommendation of the Department of Permits and Inspections. I believe that they were submitting a list. This was a parcel of land that does not qualify for a car dealership to be on, if I'm not mistaken. And it was once upon a time, but there was a break between both.
 the old car dealership green code, and then the new car dealership going up and permits and inspections recommended that it be denied. So hopefully I believe that they're submitting something. All right. Corporation council, that's fine. We can move on. Yes, yes. Thank you. Council Member DeLumbeck. Item number 56, plastic utensil upon request legislation. Motion to receive and file items 56 through 60.
 Second by Councilmember White. Resolutions. Item number 94, life preserver installation along public waterfront areas. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Columbus. Item number 94.
 Councilmember Golombi, you have the floor. Yeah, thank you. I've been working with a group of individuals that I believe they've got between 20 and 30 of these life preservers to be donated to the City of Buffalo.
 and the only thing that the city will be required to do is to actually put them up. We're gonna have to find a base because it's basically a life preserver on a rope. I believe it's approximately 100 feet long. And so I think that this is a good start for our waterfront and it's not just the waterfront in the North District along the,
 the river, which is so very dangerous. But there's other places, you know, the Union Ship Canal and elsewhere that I think that
 you know, putting these in long-term, I think will be a win-win, uh, for everyone. Uh, I saw horrible videos, uh, that occurred, I think several years ago where, uh, people took a man was drowning. A second man jumped in to go save the individual and they ended up sadly, both drowning. Um, you know, perhaps if we would have had these, uh, at that time, um, you know,
 Maybe both of these men would have been alive, you know, today. And so I think that, you know, this is something that, you know, assists us in the future. And like I said, I think about 20 to 30 of them are donated as of right now, they cost about $500 a piece.
 And so the city's only gonna be required for a base, a stand and a location. So I wanna thank my colleagues for supporting this and I'm sure I'll be back with more information as we get more donated to us.
 And council member, can you share that information? Because I think some of us who have waterways in our district, some may want to use, I know for me, some discretionary funding. And I agree with you and I ask that I also be a co-sponsor in this because I have waterways. And Mr. Rivera, I did get Mr. Rivera's request. That's fine. Anybody that wants to jump on is welcome.
 councilman revere thank you very much mr chairman i want to thank uh councilman galumbic for filing this um i have worked closely with the anglers um group that fish at broderick park and unfortunately there has been the scene of many tragedies whether it's swimmers people trying to rescue cars driving into the river and there are no
 life preservers Anywhere nearby and first instinct is to dive in the water Like that one gentleman did in the video to try to rescue somebody who was drowning Unfortunately, both of them drowned in the same incident. I know that the city was concerned about liabilities attached to this but there's always liabilities if you don't do it the liability is why don't you have them and
 This is not a green card for swimmers to go into the river because there are life preservers out there. It is forbidden to swim there. That is for fishing only. It's a 24-hour park for fishing. So we've seen incidents both at Unity Island and at Broderick Park and for many years at LaSalle Park as well.
 So I think the city should side on the safe side of caution and make sure that these preservers are placed strategically throughout different parts of our waterways. I'd rather side on the side of public safety than worrying about litigation at some point, because they're going to litigate regardless whether you have them there or not, they're going to litigate it. So I just want to thank Council Member Golombik for doing this. And I'll work with the anglers as well to make sure that there's enough life preservers throughout. Thank you.
 our waterways to make sure it's safe for anybody that goes to the parks. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. Moving on to the next item. Item number 95, budget and personnel amendment permits and inspections.
 Motion to approve items 95 and 96. By Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golumbak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Winkle? Yes. Council Member Wyatt?
 Item number 97, calling on NFTA to halt bus route cuts. Motion to adopt items 97, 98 and 99. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 100, trailblazing sign for no more tears. Motion to adopt the remainder to CD.
 That would be 100. 100 is approved. Pardon me. Yes, sir, no problem. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Golumbac. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Winkle. Yes. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes.
 Item number 101, installation of electric charging stations. Motion to adopt, remainder to CD. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 102, direct Buffalo Police Department to immediately cease ticketing victims of car theft. Motion to adopt items 102 and 103. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon.
 Council President. Thank you, Council President. We've discussed the issue of ticketing on the heels of auto theft in the past. And this council adopted a resolution last year asking the Buffalo Police Department
 to use discretion when issuing a ticket in those instances. Now I'm asking them to cease the policy altogether with the exception of, of course, children being left in the car. That obviously has to be handled in a different manner. If a vehicle's stolen while heating up, it seems ticketing the owner is punishing them for their inability to afford the luxury of an automatic car starter, which could prevent the theft and in effect ticketing them for their economic status.
 I do not think that we should be punishing people with a fine on the heels of their automobiles being stolen. For all intents and purposes, as I said, this is a fine for being financially challenged. At a time when the Buffalo Police Department is striving to improve the relationship between its officers and the communities that they serve, our officers are then instructed to punish the victims of car thefts because they don't have those means.
 Now, I know this is a New York state law, but I think we've all seen municipalities suspend and force New York state laws if they have the will to do so, and we believe it's in the best interest of our residents. So in order to avoid punishing people who have their cars stolen with an additional fine in a city with a poverty issue, I would ask that the Buffalo Police Department please cease the practice of issuing these tickets after an automobile theft immediately. Thank you, sir. Next item.
 Item number 104, approval and accessibility to the government channel. Second by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I put this forth because
 Early on when I first got on the council, who really was pushing transparency. Council President, I appreciate your efforts in trying to make our council meetings and all the things that we do more transparent for the public and I think we did a great job in doing so. However, public access is still a sore thorn that I want to address because when I first got in office,
 I utilize public access for a lot of meetings and meetings that seniors couldn't attend, they could see it on public access. Now that we've changed the public access channels, government access channels, the public can no longer see those channels because if you don't have a box, you can't go to channel 1000, whatever, 300, whatever it is.
 So we should in the process of our negotiations, which it seems as though we've been in those negotiations for an awful long time, we should be restoring that because we've been working towards transparency. I think the meetings that we have to offer and many of our colleagues provide to the community is part of that, and they should be able to see it on public access. They can't get out of their home, especially in the midst of this pandemic, we should be able to provide that information through public access. So I'm asking the,
 the administration to work with spectrum before we end our negotiations to restore those channels. And as a matter of fact, many of those channels that were government access channels aren't even being used right now from what it seems like. So I think this is very important when we talk about transparency in government to make sure again that public access is available and accessible to the public. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Thank you. And, you know, they have to provide what's called PEG access, public, educational, and government. A lot of municipalities do not press it, do not push it, but they're paying for it in their cable bill. And the unfortunate part is, and I don't mind, yeah, I don't mind sounding skeptical.
 that whatever negotiations going on is to me a bunch of garbage. Because when you're the only game in town, it is very difficult to negotiate because if they shut down,
 We have no cable, we have nothing. And some would say, well, let them shut down. Well, the unfortunate part is they own the lines that provide the cable. And even if you get it off of like a Roku or something like that, some channels are limited as you're saying. It was quite interesting is that the PEG
 access, public, educational, and government. And you think during a pandemic, when people were stuck in their house and needed that access, especially education part more than ever, that there would have been a thought. But it was after this council started criticizing what I remember, the company,
 for its prices and some of his practices that all of a sudden, as former council member said, Rich said, we got kicked to Siberia. And there doesn't seem to be any traction to come back to Buffalo. And that's why I think these negotiations at times, that's why it's been years and years and it's been nothing because when you're the only game in town and I've said it over and over, I hope technology changes so much
 to the point that we don't have to depend on one provider in the city of Buffalo who can raise prices unbelievably. Some people's cable because they need it for the kids and I think the school district for providing a hotspot access access
 to students, but some people need it for their jobs. They're paying more for their cable and their connection than they are for car notes in some places. And so I agree with you, Councilmember, and would like to sign on to this one with you, because I think that those channels should be more accessible to people. You didn't even know what the number was, but I can tell you what we used to be on. We were on, it was several channels from 18 to 19. Yeah.
 way down on the channel dial easy to remember and not 1038 if we're still on 1038 or 39 or 40 you know you know the routine so thank you for that um next item item 105 transfer of funds legal services motion to send finance items 105 and 106 and
 Second by Council Member White. Item number 107, Transfer Funds, Public Safety Vehicles. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Rashida C. White. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferreira. Yes. Council Member Goenbeck. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Winkle. Yes.
 Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. All right. I believe that's the entire agenda. Clerk, when you make the announcements for the meeting, can you announce which meetings will be both virtual and in-person so we start to get that out? Yes. Yes.
 The following meetings are scheduled. All meetings starting March 1st, 2022 are held in the Comet Council Chambers 13th floor, City Hall, Buffalo NY. Meetings may be attended virtual as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalony.gov for more information on how to attend virtual.
 Regular committees. Committee on claims will be fully virtual Wednesday, February 23, 2022 at 1 p.m. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, March 1, 2022 at 945. That meeting will be held in person and virtual. Committee on finance will be Tuesday, March 1, 2022 at 10 a.m. Also be held in person and virtual.
 Committee on Community Development will be Tuesday, March 1st, 2022 at 1 p.m., held virtual as well as in person. Committee on Legislation will be Tuesday, March 1st, 2022 at 2 p.m., as well as virtual and held in person.
 Thank you. And as we've discussed in the past, as long as these numbers of new COVID cases in the seven-day average stays below that 300 mark and we just continue to watch it, but it seems as if we're really coming down.
 And so just want the public to be aware. And when we talk about being a part of it virtually, that's about speakers on an item. Other than that, all of our meetings will always be streamed as long as the technology allows us. We never know. But that's our plan going forward. Councilmembers, any announcements for your districts? Yes.
 All right, seeing none, I won't drag it out. Council Member Revere? Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Noah Kowski.