President Pro Tem Bowman? Present. Councilwoman Everhart? Present. Councilmember Farrelletto? Here. Councilmember Golumbac? Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk? Present. Councilmember Nowakowski? Present. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Council President Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Please rise for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God. I would ask that you please stay standing as we welcome a guest to the chambers today for our invocation. Reverend Mark Blue from the Second Baptist Church who is also the president of the Buffalo chapter of the NAACP. I would like to read a verse of scripture prior to the prayer. Psalms number 133. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. It is like the precious ointment upon the head that ran down the beard, even Aaron's beard, that went down to the skirts of his garment, as the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountain of Zion. For there the Lord commanded and blessed even life. forevermore. Father, we come, Lord, to say thank you. We ask, oh Lord, that you bless the council members, bless the districts, bless the authority you've given them to not overuse it, but to be a blessing and an instrument for you. Help us to realize, Lord, that it's not about them, but it's all about you. Bless every citizen, every citizen of our city. Lord, we ask that you even touch our mayor, Lord. and grant, Lord, the decisions that being made to be one that will honor you. For, Lord, we realize, oh, Heavenly Father, that if it was not for you, we wouldn't be where we are right now. We thank you, Lord, that you bring peace to our communities. Heavenly Father, the students, Lord, and as we look at them, oh, Heavenly Father, help us to build a better future for them. Lord, we thank you for celebrating African-American history. But, Lord, not just on this month, But Lord, help us to be regular in 365 days a year. We are not just black 28 days a year, oh Heavenly Father, but for all of our lives. Help us to respect one another, respect the culture, respect the society, respect, oh Heavenly Father, as we live in this world of ours that we call home. Govern and guide us, oh Lord. We thank you in Jesus' name, amen. Thank you Reverend Blue for joining us today, we appreciate it. Council members in memoriams? Council member Glumbeck. Thank you Mr. President. Antoine Caballon passed away, father of Marinette Coslow, who is one of the great business leaders in the historic Black Rock neighborhood. He's going to be very, very sorely missed and also very sad, Joe Marciniak, a high school teacher at McKinley, was one of the leaders of one of my block clubs in the North District as well. I worked with him on numerous issues. I was able to help get his kids in his 11th grade history class to go see the Harriet Tubman movie when it came out. And it was around this time of year, it was during Black History Month, called up and said, geez, I'd love to do this with the kids. And we sat down, we put together something, and Joe was that type of a teacher that went the extra mile with everything that he did. I was at his wake on Saturday, and his wife Dana and children were there. But there were so many people that were from 17 to maybe 40 years of age that had stories to tell about how Joe touched their lives and it was just very, very sad. And he's going to be very, very missed by his McKinley High School friends and family and his family and friends immediate and in Shoreham Parkway. I'd like us to keep in memory and in our thoughts the families of police officers Paul Elmstrand and Matthew Rudge and firefighter and paramedic Adam Finseth who lost their lives since we last met in an incident in Minnesota. as well as Terry Ligurski from CWA 1133. Everyone on this floor, I see them nodding their heads, are very familiar with Terry and the incredible work she's done on behalf of the men and women of organized labor in Western New York for the past decades. There's been tremendous strides made on behalf of the men and women in organized labor And it's in no small part due to the efforts of Terry who we lost just a couple days ago. So for those we've mentioned here today and for those we're maybe thinking of, I'd like that we ask to please take a moment of silence. We have several presentations today, but to get things started, we are going to have a performance and a proclamation to follow by Council Member Wyatt, and the performance will be brought to us by Vibrant Strings. Can we give them another hand? So many times when we think about black history, we think about older people. We don't think about our young people. And I think that these young people have shown that they are definitely a part of black history. The way they just played, their classical violinists, and I know their grandfather, I believe, Mr. Salters, who his orchestra is part of black history. I've not heard of a black orchestra, but you are part of black history because we have a black orchestra, Mr. Larry Salters. So I'm really proud to recognize these young people for what they've done. They opened up for our festival last year, and that was the first time I heard about Vibrant Strings and who they are. And if you go to their Facebook page and you see them on Facebook and you see these young people performing, you're like, wow. Those are young people, and they're very good. You know, they opened up for Kenny G and the Dance Theater of Harlem and Johnny Gill and the Whispers, Lloyd, After 7. So there ain't no small Trump change. They out here doing it with major recording artists, and that is really a special thing for young people because we always say these negative things about what they're doing. Well, here's something. Let's applaud them, let's continue to lift them. When you hear about where they are, please go hear them because that's how we help them to recognize that they somebody too. Sometimes we just go when we gotta hear a big name, but Vibrant Springs is a big name. So today we celebrate you. Just gonna say a little bit real quick. Born and raised in Buffalo, Vibrant Springs is a family of violinists consisting of siblings Johnny Linton, Jalaya Linton, and Raheem Dunston. Raheem is not here. Yes, Raheem is here. Okay, so who's missing? Johnny? So we miss Johnny for not being here. But again, their well-deserved notoriety exceeds Western York as a group that has opened for, as I say, Kenny G, the Dance Dealer Harlem, Johnny Gill, the Whispers, Lloyds, After 7. So on this day, I hereby proclaim that the Buffalo Common Council celebrates Black History Month. We recognize vibrant strings and thank them for sharing their enormous talent with not only us here, but also so many throughout our local communities. Thank you. Next we have a presentation from Council Member Nowakowski. Good afternoon everybody. One second. So when we were beginning Black History Month, staff had came to me and said, who would you like to honor? And I have the unique privilege that I don't have to look past my own family. And so today, well, every day she's my Anne Yvonne, but today she's a very professional woman with a long and wonderful career in the Buffalo Public Schools. You guys, and we're also joined by Superintendent Dr. Tonja Williams, So, Yvonne Hargrave was born in Buffalo, New York. She attended the Buffalo Public Schools, graduating from Grover Cleveland High School. Her illustrious career spanning 37 years in the Buffalo Public Schools exemplifies her unwavering commitment to the educational excellence we have in the Buffalo Public Schools. Yvonne made her own black history while serving as interim superintendent by being the first black woman to act, perform, and discharge the duties of superintendent of the Buffalo Public Schools as interim superintendent. That deserves an honor of applause. And why that's important to me is there's a little bit of what Councilmember Wyatt said. Oftentimes when we think of black history, we mark and we look at the inventor of the traffic light, the gear shift, blood banks, arts and cultures. But we've been surrounded by leaders in the black community who've been giants among us in everyday lives for many years and have already accomplished a lot of firsts. And so why I'm so happy that the superintendent, Tonja Williams is here is because I believe when my aunt left, she opened up the door to propel other black women to hold this position. And it's more important for us now to celebrate while people are still with us and that we still engage for a special time when they're not here. We should be telling them how amazing they are all the time, especially while they're still with us. So I'd like to give the floor over to the superintendent really quick for a few brief remarks. Thank you so much, Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, honorable president and all of the council who are here. I knew that when I got a call to say, could you come and share a few words for really a trailblazer in education? I thought of course, they're in education, but when I found out who it was. I started changing things around, moving things around to make sure that I was here today because I know whose shoulders I stand on. I know whose shoulders I stand on. You know, I see lots of mentors out here that mentored me along the way. And you don't just get to the seat of superintendent of the Buffalo Public Schools, the second largest school district in New York State. By yourself. And so I really respect, I have always had deep respect for Mrs. Hargrave. She has mentored, educated, and helped thousands. children in this district and for that I am very proud of the legacy that you have left of excellence in our school district so I'm gonna just read a few words I won't read the whole letter dear councilmember Nowakowski As Black History Month is a time to celebrate the many achievements of African Americans and how they contributed to shaping American history, we, myself, and our board president, Sharon Belton-Cotman, are writing in recognition of Buffalo's own, and I feel like my own, too, Ms. Yvonne Hargrave. She began her career, now I didn't know this, as a French teacher at Fillmore Middle School. I remember Fillmore, I've been around a long time. Now known as the Dr. Lydia T. Wright School of Excellence. Interim Superintendent Yvonne Hargrave retired in June, 2025 after working for the school district for 37 years, including as a guidance counselor, helping teacher, assistant principal, and principal of Kensington High School and the Buffalo Academy of Science and Mathematics. She was the assistant superintendent for student support services before being appointed associate superintendent. To give ninth grade students a better route for a successful high school career, Mrs. Hargrave also successfully oversaw the founding of Kensington Preparatory High School. I remember that, I remember that. Mrs. Hargrave served as president of the Buffalo Secondary School Principals Association and vice president of the Buffalo Council of Supervisors and Administrators in the past. Once again, Yvonne Hargrave's contributions to the entire Buffalo Public Schools community deserves, deserves, deserves. All the Deltas in the house deserves to be honored and celebrated by this city of Buffalo and its citizens. Thank you so much for all you have done. So just one more whereas and we'll all stand. Now therefore the Common Council of the City of Buffalo proclaims Yvonne Hargrave as a distinguished educator and celebrates her during Black History Month for her vital contributions to education, her exemplary leadership, and her unwavering dedication to the betterment of the City of Buffalo's youth and community. I am going to have to ask my colleagues. to excuse me for this next presentation and the pride associated with it and the boastfulness associated with it. Chests out a little bit today with this presentation. Well, last Friday there was a, you know, Council Member Wyatt actually made a great point just now during Black History Month. We a lot of times focus on accomplishments of the past. And we're not acknowledging and embracing the accomplishments while they're taking place in front of us right now. So with that being said, I'd love to have Jayden Harrison come on down with Coach, Matt, whoever else can come on down. You'll notice I have a green tie on today. I've got a bishop time in class of 2000 ring on today. I've got it all on today. So last Friday night in a highly contested, highly advertised basketball game between two of the best basketball teams in Western New York. I think in the fourth quarter, Jayden brought the ball down, used a screen to create a little space and knocked down a three. And with that three pointer gave himself 2,377 points for his career. Making him the new record holder for most points scored in a career in Western New York history. And so we wanted to bring Jayden in to congratulate him and I have a proclamation here I'll just read a little bit. I mentioned the basketball game but Jayden Harrison would finish last Friday's game with 23 points to extend the new record to 2,384 points and counting, giving Bishop Time at St. Jude a very significant road victory over their Monsignor Martin rival, Canisius High School. Jayden's excellence goes beyond the hardwood representing Bishop Time in both in the classroom and in the community as a leader who's both strong in character and in faith. Now therefore, I hereby proclaim that the Common Council of the City of Buffalo congratulates Jayden Harrison on becoming Western New York's all time leading scorer and wishes him all the best as he continues to extend his record and move up the New York State record books. Yeah. I've had the great privilege of watching Jayden play and I can attest to his athletic and basketball prowess but I don't know you personally. But by all accounts people I know at the school, people I believe in the school and trust in the school, your character outshines your basketball ability from what I hear. And you are leading, as the proclamation says, in faith and in character and strength. So although I'm a Tymon alumnus, and I know records are meant to be broken, as an alumnus, I'm very proud of it and I'm excited to see the record stay with a Tymon Tiger. I'm even more excited to see what you do in your future endeavors, and I wish you nothing but the best of luck as you move on in your life. Next we have a presentation. Thank you, Council President. And as we continue this amazing celebration of black excellence here in the city of Buffalo, I have the honor of honoring someone I love and admire, a friend, Mr. Idris Wajid. Alexi, you can come down here too. Because behind every great man, there's an even greater woman. Idris, a distinguished multi-disciplined artist and entrepreneur hailing from Buffalo stands as a beacon of artistic excellence and community engagement, showing a remarkable array of talents spanning visual arts, jewelry design, music production, writing, and education. Now, therefore, let it be proclaimed by the City of Buffalo Common Council on behalf of all of its citizens that we hereby honor and commend Idris Wajid for his outstanding achievements and contributions to the cultural vibrancy of our city during Black History Month and beyond. We commend his lifelong dedication to artistic excellence, community engagement, and social healing, which serve as a source of inspiration and enrichment for all. Thank you. Yes, of course you can. This is your house. Well, thank you, Zanetta. I'm very privileged and honored to be here in this city that I have never left. I am still here because I believe that I have a purpose here to make a difference and as Zanetta mentioned to inspire. And somebody asked me once, what is it that inspires me? And it is that, to be an inspiration. Because my parents met as artists, neither of them were able to continue their practice in the artistry. And here I am with a supportive friend and another artist. who's on the journey with me to make sure that other artists, young black artists know that there's value in their craft. That's why our business is called Eat Off Art, because their adage is always that you're going to starve. And we are trying to address that in various ways while still serving our community. So I'm very grateful and this is for those that came before us that weren't able to pursue and continue in their practice of art and in the healing of art. So I'm forever grateful. I really am and I think I just want to shout out to all the other, Jayden already left, Jason, congratulations, man. I'm leading that way. Auntie, Auntie Ronnie, that's my auntie too. Auntie Ronnie, Derek, Yeah, I'm very grateful to be in such an esteemed group of people, so thank you. I love y'all. Last and certainly not least, we have a presentation from Majority Leader Halton Pope. Good afternoon. Mr. Parsons, if you would join me up here. The point of personal privilege, the first presentation, those young people actually attended a childcare center that my parents. So for me that was a full circle moment. I remember them as young children at a daycare center a long time ago in the university district. So that meant a whole lot. Mr. Derek Parsons from Buffalo to Brooklyn. In the state legislature, my forever boss, Majority Leader Peoples Stokes, started this process where we acknowledge people from Buffalo to Brooklyn every single year. And we call it the Buffalo to Brooklyn reception, where we focus on people. the diversity of our great state and so how fitting it is to be able to recognize a new buffalo, not new, but a buffalo transplant in Mr. Derek Parsons. He's a Brooklyn native turned buffalo transplant who embodies the spirit of entrepreneurship, innovation, and education, demonstrating a relentless commitment to fostering economic empowerment, and creating pathways to success for underrepresented and BIPOC entrepreneurs. Derek is the Executive Director of the Exchange at Beverly Gray. He has pioneered efforts to provide unparalleled support and resources to the underrepresented entrepreneurial community in Buffalo, New York, catalyzing business development and fostering growth through strategic partnerships and innovative initiatives. Therefore, let it be proclaimed in the city of Buffalo, Buffalo Common Council, on behalf of the citizens that we hereby honor and commend Derek Parson for his outstanding contribution to the community during Black History Month. And beyond, we commend his tireless efforts to promote economic equity, fostering entrepreneurship, and empower individuals from all walks of life to pursue their dreams and build thriving businesses, which is the lifeblood of our communities. Thank you, Mr. Parsons. Ladies and gentlemen, Derek. Thank you. Thank you, Councilwoman. I'm excited to have this recognition. And it's interesting enough that the Brooklyn to Buffalo, Buffalo, Brooklyn, I attended that years ago. I want to leave just a special point. I decided on my own accord to stay in Buffalo and not go back to Brooklyn. I tell everybody day in and day out, I'm a Brooklyn boy through and through. Came up here to go to UB, stayed, worked, left a job, started two different businesses, succeeded in some, started a tech company here in Buffalo, raised millions of dollars for that tech company, closed that, started another one. And when COVID hit, I was asked to go to Silicon Valley, I was asked to go to Atlanta, and I was asked to go to DC. And the one thing, opportunity that came to me was here in Buffalo to say, hey, Can you help those like you who weren't able to get that opportunity? Can you build something here in Buffalo that can rival New York City, that can rival DC, Atlanta, as well as Silicon Valley? And I'm one to never shy away from a hard task, and I took that chance and I actually stepped into the role as the executive director of the exchange at Beverly Gray. Once I stepped into that, knowing who Beverly Gray was, knowing what her commitment was to this city, to this community, I took that and I ran with it. And now the exchange is one of the top premier since starting two and a half years ago, premier destinations for any BIPOC entrepreneur who is interested in starting a business. to get the help they need from start to scale to pivot. And I'm gonna continue that journey and continue that mission because we as a people, we as a BIPOC people deserve every resource, every dollar to pour back into our community. So thank you, thank you Councilwoman, thank you Councilmembers for this honor and I'm gonna continue to help build this city because Buffalo isn't next, it's now. Thank you. You're all staying for the whole meeting, right? We'll give you a few minutes. Could I be with you? Council members, on a motion by Mrs. Leah Halton-Pope, seconded by Council Member Bowman, the minutes of the stated meeting held on February 6, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we'll hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the late files. Clerk from the top, please. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Majority leader, we do have one item we need to take out of order. Yes sir, we're going to take number 77 out of order. Motion is to take item 77 out of order, seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 77, discharge item 23-891 for community development. Motion to adopt. Motion is to adopt, seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number one, acceptance of restored New York grant funds and authority to enter into sub agreement. One moment please. I can't hear. We're very excited, sir. Very good. Motion to send item number one to community development. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number two, amend the reported sale portion of 56 Miller. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number three, authority to enter into sub award agreement between city and BMHA. Motion to send items three and four to community development. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number five, 2014 management agreement extension between the city of Buffalo and the area of Canal Harbor development. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number six, pilot agreement for Perry Homes LLC and Perry Homes. 1, Housing Development Fund Company. Motion to send to Community Development. Seconded by Council Member Faroletto. Item number 7, Planning Board Recommendations from January 29, 2024 meeting. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number 8, Report of Sills 703 and 705 Broadway. Motion to send items 8 through and including 11 to Community Development. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 12, resend the sale of 110 WIC. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 13, certificate of necessity. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Pro Tempoma. Item number 14, inter-fund loan bicycle master plan implementation. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number 15, Interfund Loan, car sharing, Main Street Project. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Excuse me, Mr. President, may I ask, can somebody please shut the door behind us? Granted. Thank you. Item number 16, Interfund Loan, Parkside Atlanta Intersection Safety Improvements. Motion to send items 16 and 17 to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 18, amendments to report of bids. Motion to approve items number 18 and including item number 33. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number 34, notice of appointment for equipment operator. Motion to send items 34 through 36 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item number 37, appoint police chief. Motion to send items 37 and 38 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 39, permission to enter into a contract for the SHSP grids. Motion to approve items 39 and 40. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 41, appoint fire captain. Motion to send items 41 and 42 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 43, Cheryl Steppens, 60,000. Motion to send items 41 and 42 to civil service. 43 to and including 49 to claims. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 50, Appoint Assistant Corporation Council 3. Motion to send items 50 and 51 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 52, ARP Subrecipient Agreement for approval. Motion to approve items 52 through 58. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number 59, BSA Board attendance for January 26th, 2024. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number 60, Coalminglin Event Application for 69 West Chippewa. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 61, liquor license notices. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 62, complaint clerk. Motion to send item 62 and 63 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 64, notice of appointment, Council Intern 3. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Everhart. Miscellaneous, item number 65, request to remove traffic signal at Kimmerer Ave and Eugene Avenue. Motion to send items, to receive and file items 65 and 66. Seconded by President Potemk-Bullman. Item number 67, mortgage tax collection and distribution communication. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 68, special use conditions for 66 Ashley Street. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 69, jury diversification. Motion to send to ledge. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Petitions item number 70, special use 3319 Street. Motion to send items 70 through 73 to ledge and the city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Submission list, civil service. Item number one, appoint principal ERP, financial operations officer. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Gormack. Added number two, appoint police officers. Motion to receive a file. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Added number three, appoint crime scene technician. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number four, position allocation maintenance personnel assistant. Motion to receive in five. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Finance, item number five, cash flow report for December 2023. Motion is to receive items five, six, and seven. Seconded by Majority Leader Hultenpoe. Community development, item number eight, report is so. Yes, Councilmember White. A question on number seven. Yes, sir. I know that the council is receiving file. Can we call for a vote on that? Number seven. So we need a motion to rescind the previous motion. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Seconded by Council Member Golombak. Motion to approve. Call for a roll. We're going to do a roll call. The clerk can call for a roll call. President Potem, Bowman? Yes. Councilwoman Everhart? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Golumbak? Yes. Majority leader Houghton-Polk? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council President Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wyatt? No. It passes with the eight and one with the motion to receive and file. Okay, next item. Community Development, item number 8, report is so 431 Glenwood. Motion to approve items 8 and 9. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 10, tire handler license 1657 Broadway. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Bowman, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. And the two conditions for this tire handler license are no exterior storage of tires and no storage of junk vehicles on the property. Thank you. Item number 11 was we support an installation of LED lighting in the street light system. Motion to receive and file items 11 through and including 14. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 15, report is sell 84, 86, and 88, Laurel. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Legislation, item number 16, restaurant dance license 3167 Bailey Avenue. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 17, restaurant dance license 395 Main Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 18, tire handler license 1180 Abbott Road. Motion to recommit items 18 and 19. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 20, special use permit 1012 West Avenue. Motion to approve items 20 and 21. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 22, special use 195 14th Street. Motion to deny. Motion is to deny, seconded by Council Member Rivera who has the floor. Mr. Chairman, Council President, the reason for The denial of the special use permit is that OCM had found this establishment to be illegally dispensing marijuana. Subsequent to that, permits and inspection had closed them down. They opened up again and continued to sell without a license and they were fined for I believe $1,500. As of today, they were open again. We need to send a signal to those that are operating in the city of Buffalo and throughout the state, that there will be a penalty for operating illegal dispensaries in the city of Buffalo. We read in the Buffalo News today that there are approximately 500, there are only 50 legal dispensary in the state of New York, and there are only a handful in the city of Buffalo, but yet there are thousands of them that are illegal. We have to get our hands around this. As I said earlier today, I'm not much for revenue streams, but this is definitely a revenue streams I think that we need to go after and we need to enforce that. I'm hoping the state will correct the mistakes that they made when this law came out. And they do give the city. some teeth with regards to enforcement other than their licenses. So that's the reason for this denial. And I did mention it in our committee meeting, but I was asked to also explain it in our council meeting. Item number 23, zone and map amendment 162, Kearns. Motion is to approve with conditions that the Lovejoy Councilman is going to read into the record. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I had a conversation with the applicant and he is agreeable to the following conditions. Number one, excessive calls and reports directed to 311, 911, or the council member's office will prompt a hearing with permits, inspections, law department, and the Lovejoy District Office. Number two, a mandatory annual license renewal meeting involving the Lovejoy District Office. Community police officer and a representative from permits and inspections is required prior to license renewal. Thank you. Item number 24, special use 2115 Seneca. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 25, ordinance amendment for short-term rental, chapter 380. There is a motion to approve with amendments and there's some amendments that are to be read on the floor if one of the sponsors wants to read those. Motion is to approve, seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I did work with a few council members and Council Member Golumbac who was not, and a few other council members who were not comfortable with the fees that were originally proposed. So the amendments to be read are under fees changed to $500 to $400 for occupied property first-time certificate. Under fee changes $1,000 to $650. for non-owner occupied property first time certificate under conditions number nine, specificize the change of snow shovel under conditions number 10, to conspicuous to inconspicuous. These, as you know, are for short term rentals, which I know that some of my colleagues were granted a lot of emails because the Airbnb company was providing misinformation that residents were not able to be You know didn't have a time to publicly comment This has been in the Legislation Committee multiple times multiple of my constituents under the chairmanship of council member Farrell I know have indeed Commented we've heard from both sides I heavily relied on our inspections department who also provided a lot of information and changes to this Because they are the ones that are inspecting this There's the local historic historic district provision where initially people wanted to see a density control percentage but in local historic districts did not think it could be properly enforced so this just gives local historic districts and council members that represent them in wanting to grant a special use permit for a non-owner occupied just more tools to be able to evaluate that decision does not impugn any other districts and i know that i received a lot of uh misinformation and emails and you know i i could take insults all day that i don't care about that um but you will not also insult um support staff who has worked really hard on this that i will not uh tolerate nor will i um and tolerate really the uh i mean you're just insult people are insulting themselves if they're emailing me with that without even reading the document A lot of this has health and safety regulations like making sure that we have carbon monoxide detections, making sure that things are up to building codes, virus extinguishers, and making sure that there are a snow shovel for emergencies. This is health and safety. This is to protect those that are... renting out Airbnbs or short term rentals, but also it's providing safety and support for those that inspect and our first responders that go out ultimately to those calls. So this legislation has been crafted to be mindful of everyone's district, health and safety, and also updated a lot of fees. The fact of the matter is, is the original fee or fine that you got, if you were not adhering to our rules, was $75. I could tell you right now a lot of people in my district were looking at those notices and tossing them in the garbage because it's $75. So now operating without a license and not compliance comes with $500, and inspections fees are up to about $150, $300 for the second violation, and $600 for the third violation, all previously up from $75,000. Our inspections department does a lot. of work in making sure that our buildings are up to standards. And that is important to health and safety of everybody who is occupying these dwellings. And oftentimes, it can get into a personality dispute. And everyone has their right to their opinion. But the fact of the matter is this legislation is to make sure that the dwellings that are occupied in the city of Buffalo have health and safety to them and that they also do not impede on residents that are in that district and another colleague of mine brought up a good point and said that look we as council members rely heavily on our constituents so if someone on the block club or on the street is uncomfortable with uh you know a special use permit being granted for a non owner occupied dwelling for an Airbnb, then we as council members take that into consideration and are able to decipher if it's appropriate or not in that area. And I just also want to stress that those that are occupying or owner occupied This is just gently tweaking legislation. You own your property. You live there. Live your life. Make sure it's properly inspected and that everything is up to building standards and that it's safe. That's all that the city of Buffalo wants. So I think my colleagues who I have talked to through this and for their amendments that we've been able to move forward to come up with a document that I believe everyone is a little bit satisfied with. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Council Member. Just for the record, under the conditions that were read into the record, the last one should be change number 10 from inconspicuous to conspicuous. It was just written backwards on here, so just for the record, so anyone that knows. Council Member Glumba. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to commend you and Councilmember Nowakowski. As he mentioned, I was on the phone with him and talked to him on a bunch of issues. And I appreciate that there was room for compromise and discussion. I think that's the way to get things done in the city of Buffalo. is listening to all sides and as you both mentioned, it's not necessarily perfect piece of legislation because there is no such thing as a perfect piece of legislation. There's always going to be somebody that is unhappy But I do commend you for putting together something. And to the people that had contacted me with criticisms about it, I remember after we did the food truck legislation, I had people that were convinced that every restaurant in the city of Buffalo was going to close because of the food trucks. I don't think any did. So I don't necessarily see this as a huge hindrance to short term rental for that faction that was concerned about it. And if there are problems, it can be addressed, it can be looked at in the future, in a year or so. And that was a commitment that I had given once again with the food trucks and the legislation actually ended up working and it didn't need to be tweeted after that year. And hopefully this won't need to be tweaked. after another year or so. The other thing is, and this is not a shot at anyone, the city because I work very closely with the courts, inspections, etc. But one of the problems seems to be the enforcement of this issue. And that's when I have problems in my council district, it is sometimes the enforcement issues. And once again, it's not necessarily anyone's fault, the courts, the inspections department. It's just the process that follows, and I hope that by raising the fee a little bit for the first time short term rental person for the first time that they're getting this, that it will help to weed out those that are not up to par. So I just want to say congratulations to those of you that put this together. Council Member Ferraletto. Thank you. I just want to thank the sponsors for being open to changes from what was originally proposed. I know I really felt for a lot of the owner occupied. Airbnb hosts and other short-term rental hosts. I've never had a problem with an owner occupied unit and a lot of them are just using rooms in their bedrooms or renting out rooms in their bedrooms. And I know the fees that are being passed today are lower than what was originally proposed. So I'm thankful that my colleagues were open and amenable to changes. Thanks. Item number 26, special use 62 Lawrence for neighborhood shop. Motion is to deny. Seconded by Council Member Rivera, who has the floor. Council President, the reason for denying the special use permit, this particular location, it is in an end to our zone. And what they're going to be providing there is bottle retention or redemption. I don't think it's an appropriate location. They're going to be working out of a garage in a residential area, and for that reason I'm denying it. Next item. Resolutions, item number 74, Elkhorn Movie Night Fee Waiver. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 75, supported after school programs and additional funding from New York State. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 76, fee waive for clubs 49ers Easter Egg Hunt. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Item number 78, Washington Mohawk Ellicott Urban Development Action Area. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 79, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt item 79 and 80. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number 81, transfer of funds for fire. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Tem Pullman. Item number 82, appoint Elliot Carson to bicycle pedestrian advisory board. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Renalikowski. Item number 83, trailblazing resolution for Mary C. Hennegan. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Mr. Chairman, can we revisit item number seven in finance? Motion is to revisit item number seven in finance, seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Mr. Chairman, I apologize. I was looking for an item in a different location and I wasn't clear on the vote that I gave. I'd like to change my vote at this point to the negative. For the reasons that we discussed during committee meetings, when the control board came before us to explain the rationale for their recommendation. I thought they were pretty compelling. They are in place by law. They make recommendations based on analysis and projections. And for that reason, I truly believe that we should follow the recommendations of the control board. So I'll vote in a negative on that one. councilmember nolkowski thank you uh i will be drafting some a document that compiles what the bfsa stated and during the finance committee meeting because what they did articulate was that yes vacancy control um in a number of positions but that the general fund is usually made up and comprised of vacant positions thus allowing the city of buffalo to have liquidity in its budget so i understand that maybe some council members may have been confused on what we were voting on but i will be submitting um to this body for it to be adopted a document that outlines a little bit more intrinsically of what the the BFSA had to state during our committee meeting and the conversation I've been having. Thank you, Mr. President. Okay, so for the record, the motion is to approve item number seven. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck with, or I'm sorry, motion is to receive and file with Council Members Rivera and Wyatt in the negative. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Motion to revisit item number 68. Motion is to revisit item number 68, seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. I have a motion to rescind the vote. Motion is to rescind the previous motion, seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Announcement of committee meetings, regular committees. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, February 27th, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, February 27th, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, February 27th, 2024 at 1 PM. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, February 27th, 2024 at 2 PM. Committee on education will be Tuesday, February, nope. It will be Wednesday, February 28, 2024 at 11 a.m. And committee on claims will be Wednesday, February 28, 2024 at 1 p.m. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Council member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. Next Wednesday, February 28th, from 530 to 7 p.m. at our Schiller Park Senior Center. It's 2057 Genesee Street. We will be having our Schiller Park Master Plan meeting. This is the third meeting where we want residents to come out and give input. We were able to secure ARP dollars for residents. park improvements right in Schiller Park. We want the residents to come out. That's next Wednesday, 530 Schiller Park Senior Center. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to ask the residents of the University District to join us for our. our quarterly community breakfast at the University Presbyterian Church from 9 AM to noon. Please contact our office at 716-851-5165 to reserve. And I'd also like to take a moment to acknowledge Thaisa Shank Jean for being recognized as a recipient of the Business First Under 30s. We celebrate you, congratulations Thaisa, thank you. Majority Leader Halton Poole. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to remind the residents and food store owners of the Ellicott District that we have our food store license renewal community meeting on Thursday. There's two different sessions at 261 Swan Street. The first is at 10 a.m., and the second is at 5 p.m. You are strongly encouraged to attend if you'd like to be renewed. Thank you. councilwoman everhart thank you president scanlon um in the maston district as well there is our second food store owner community meeting that is happening tonight at the delavan grider community center from 5 30 to 7 residents are encouraged to attend and store owners are required to attend This week in the Maston District, we also will be hosting Zanetta and Zyre's Book Club event for Black. We're doing Black authors for Black history in partnership with the Buffalo Bills and Buffalo Public Schools. So we will be hearing from a number of local children's book authors, as well as some of our bookstore owners. And there will be lots of book giveaways for children, so please join. Reach out to my office if you and your family would like to attend. Our number is 716-851-5145. And one more, we have an event next week on 2-29. We are doing in partnership with Senator Tim Kennedy, a 501C3 literacy event. We will have all types of resources for our local nonprofits. helping them to build their boards up, capacity building. There will be information from the West New York non profit support group as well as the New York State Grants Gateway. And you can also call my office for more information on that. Thank you. There's nothing else. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn, seconded by Council Member Ferraletto.