Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk. Present. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council President Scala. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic. I would ask that you please stay standing as we welcome to the floor for today's invocation as we begin Women's History Month, Reverend Diana Henderson. Thank you to be here with all of you, especially for this great month, Women's History Month. Well, we are always making history. And I want to say I am the wife of the late Bishop William Henderson, known as the Michigan Street Baptist Church. And so in my prayer, I have some bullets that I'm going to pray. And I just want you to think about it. You can close your eyes or you can keep your eyes open as we do this invocation. May this invocation be a prayer of hope, healing, and resilience as we build bridges for a better community at large because we are better together. May we pave the way as bridge builders for our community today. May we unify our efforts in order to create transformative change. May we be visionaries, peacemakers to bridge the gap. May we actively engage in a heartbeat of humanity while being fruitful and faithful producers in the gardens of our untapped potential. May we sense the correct strategies and implementation of the important decisions that will affect us all. May humility be the guiding force for reconciliation and restoration, for hope in the land. May the eyes of our heart be clearly for the future change. May love for one another be the ultimate outcome. May we rest in the place of silence, so we can hear the true call of the work that needs to be done in our community and for our city. Finally, may we be like-minded, united in spirit, sympathetic, brotherly, kind-hearted, courteous, compassionate to each other. As members, I'm going to say this, of one community. humble in spirit that was first Peter the third chapter and the eighth verse I read that statement from the Amplified Bible and may I say bless you all on your journey to where you are to where you're going great success bless you all thank you very much Reverend Henderson thank you council members in memoriams council member Rivera Council President, I just want to keep in memory Charlie Castro, the brother of Millie Castro. He was one of nine siblings he left behind. I was at the memorial service on Saturday. I didn't know him personally, but I heard stories while we were there. There were moments of laughter and moments of sadness, but overall moments of caring and how he cared for his siblings. He passed away on February 22nd at 66 years of age. So I know that the siblings who he took care of and his children will sorely miss him. Thank you very much. Council member Glombeck. Thank you. Also, I wanted to share the same condolences for the Castro family as well. Also, David Jaworski, long time Riverside resident, member of the 210 Social Club, avid musician. just all around great guy passed away. I talked to him about a month ago. It was only in his early 70s he had some issues on the street and he said, yeah, I haven't been feeling well. And all of a sudden I get a call several days ago that he had passed away. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family, his Riverside friends, his band mates, his 210 social club, and quite a few people. Thank you. Thank you, in addition to those we've heard today, I would ask that we please remember any members of the armed forces and our first responders who may have lost their lives since our last meeting in while protecting our communities and defending our nation. For that we ask that we please take a moment of silence. Thank you, and I'd like to welcome our majority leader, Leah Halton Pope to the floor for a special presentation today. Mr. President. To begin our Women's History Month, we have a very special guest here today, Dr. Eva M. Doyle. She is a distinguished educator, historian, columnist, and community leader. She's exemplified an unparalleled dedication and commitment to promoting African and African-American history, enriching the lives of countless individuals across western New York through her tireless efforts. unwavering passion whereas through her illustrious career as retired Buffalo public school teacher with 30 years of classroom experience dr. Eva M Doyle has demonstrated a steadfast commitment to educational excellence inspiring and empowering students of all backgrounds to embrace the richness of their heritage and strive for academic success Dr. Eva M. Doyle's unwavering dedication to education, community service, and advocacy serves as a source of inspiration and empowerment for all who have had the privilege of crossing paths with her, embodying the principles of leadership, compassion, and resilience. Now, therefore, let it be resolved. Let it be proclaimed by the City of Buffalo Common Council on behalf of all of its citizens that we hereby honor and commend Dr. Eva M. Doyle for her outstanding contributions to education, community service, and advocacy during Women's History Month and beyond. We commend her exemplary leadership, unwavering commitment, to social justice and enduring legacy of empowerment, which continue to inspire and uplift our community. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce to some and represent to others Dr. Eva M. Doyle, Mother Doyle for those of us who know her very well. If you wouldn't mind giving her a round of applause, she earned it. Now for those of you who do not know, she is a brilliant historian. She is a resident of the Ellicott District. She had the privilege some years ago, my predecessor, allowed her to read a book here on the chamber floors. She's not going to do that today. But we wanted to take time to start off this history month and honor somebody who means a lot to me and I'm so honored that you would be here with us. So thank you, Dr. Doyle. Would you like to say a few words? Well, I want to thank you, Councilwoman Leopold. So nice to see you. Thank you for this honor. I just want to recognize our now retired council president, Darius Pridgen, because he was He allowed me to read my first book on local history. And it's called Buffalo's Black Community. My first book is 42 years old. It talks about the first black man to ever come to Buffalo, Joseph Hodge. I'm a great-grandmother. I'm a grandmother of seven. A great-grandmother. I think six. I got a lost count. I just published my 13th book. So... I have done a lot of work with history. If you want to know anything about local black history, give me a call. And I see Mr. Joseph Golombek. He has supported my work in the school system. And I will let you in on a secret. I'm working on my 14th book. I just want to introduce my granddaughter, Zaire. She's an EMT and her twin sister is a Buffalo police officer. I just want to just thank you all for this honor. If you get a chance, when you go down Niagara Street, get out of your car in front of the, and you will see a sign to Robert Franklin, who had a log cabin there and he fought in the war of 1812. and it helped to repel the British coming into the city of Buffalo. So there's so much history, and I've been speaking all month for February, and I spoke to the Army Corps of Engineers, 300 members. So thank you. I'm going to sit down because my granddaughter knows I can be up here for W meetings. Can we take a picture? You look right up there. I wanted my... Did you get a picture? Well, we're going to take one up there and then write straight ahead. Okay, yes. And then we'll send it to you. Yes, and it'll be in the criterion because I write for the criterion in the newspaper. Thank you all. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. I'll take it over to her. Okay. Okay, on a motion by Mrs. Halton Pope, seconded by Mr. Bowman, the minutes of the State of Meeting held on February 20th, 2024 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? hearing no objections to the late files we'll hear the agenda in its entirety this does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the late files clerk from the top please item number one mayor out of town travel Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, appointment to Buffalo and Erie County Library Board. Motion to send items two through and including four to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number five, cash flow report for January 2024. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number six, certificate of necessity. Motion to receive and file items six and seven. Seconded by Council Member Golombak. Item number eight, Interfund Loan Request for Buffalo Museum of Science Roof Replacement. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number nine, Rules of Order for the Common Council of the City of Buffalo. Motion to send to rules. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 10, amendment to change order number two, Buffalo Zoo Giraffe House. Motion to send items 10 through and including 27, or to approve items 10 and including 27. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 28, appoint cell block attendant. Motion to send items 28 through and including 32 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 33, contract extension for the City of Buffalo and MS Analytical LLC. Motion to approve items 33 through and including 35. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 36, recipient agreement for approval. Motion to approve items 36 through 40. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number 41, liquor license notices. Motion to receive and file items 41 through 42. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 43, notice of appointment, temp, provisional and permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 44, appoint senior legislative assistant to motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. miscellaneous item number 45 Humboldt Parkway restoration project this item is open and I'll go to councilmember going back Thank you, Mr. President. This is an item that we've been getting, I'm sure all of us on the council. I've probably gotten over 1,000 that are allegedly coming from quote unquote constituents. Out of the roughly 1,000, I've only recognized maybe five or six that are actually legitimate constituents of the North District. And maybe another 10 or 15 that are constituents in the city of Buffalo. And one of the things, well, the one thing that they are demanding from the council is that we do an environmental impact study for the project being done on Humboldt. I tried to call some of the people that contacted me and let them know that this is not a City of Buffalo issue. That the City of Buffalo does not do the environmental impact study. But I said, I go, I'm going to clock this item in so that we could have the law department opine on this. And explain what the process is and what it isn't. And knowing which level of government people should be contacting, when in fact it's not the city of Buffalo that has any real legislative review over this. Assistant Corp Councilor Karen Gordon, you are correct, Councilmember. This project is not within the purview of the city of Buffalo. The city of Buffalo does not have any authority as it relates to environmental impact statements or the environmental review process that takes place for projects of this size. this is a project that is in that is undergone by the state and the federal government and so there's nothing for the city to do as it relates to this project and any environmental studies that may be needed thank you thank you And? A motion to receive and file. Motion is to receive and file, seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 46, opposition to special use 1363 Delaware. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 47, inquiry on vacancy controls. Motion is signed into finance. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 48, letter to Postmaster. Motion to send the community development. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 49, secret negative declaration. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Petitions, item number 50, special use 218 Abbott. Motion to send items 50 through and including 53 to Ledge and the City Planning Board. Seconded by President Pro Tempore. Submission list, civil service, item number one, notice of appointment, equipment operator. Motion to approve items one, two, and three. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number four, appoint police chief. Motion to receive items four through and including 17. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Finance, item number 18, Interfund Loan Bicycle Master Plan Implementation. Motion is to approve items 18, 19, and 20. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Community Development, item number 21, acceptance of Restore New York Grant Funds and Authority to Enter Sub-Agreement. Motion to approve items 21 through and including 28, please. Seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Legislation, item number 29, Restaurant Dance License 3167 Bailey Avenue. Motion to table. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Legislation. Or commit. Motion to send to legislation, seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 30, tire handler license 1180 Abbott Road. Motion to approve items 30 and 31. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 32, special use 85 Abbott. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 33, zone and map amendment 14 Shepherd. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Claims, item number 34, Cheryl Steffens, 60,000. Motion to approve items 34 through 40. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. I'm in the negative on number 34. And for the record, Council Member Glombeck is recorded in the negative on number 34. Education, item number 41, Strategies for Improving School Suspension Policies and Afterschool Programming. Motion to receive and file items 41 through 48. Seconded by Council Member Farrell-Leto. Resolutions, item number 54, Oatfurce Ward and the Valley Neighborhood Parade Flag and Feet Waiver. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 55, establishment of legal and financial advisory services for enhanced. Motion to send it to finance. Seconded by Council Member Bowman and Council Member Nowakowski has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. So about in 2020, about four years ago, it was about May, I believe, late May, I had filed a resolution that was objected to, it was a late file, there were funny times back then when we objected to the objector and had some funny moments. But in all seriousness, this was something where we put in our council rules to have a legislative policy advisor. And I tried to put it and ultimately put in the resolution to change our council rules, because I thought it was a clever way to hold the council responsible to adhere to our own rules that govern the chamber. So it's been May 2020 where we were able to approve this, put it in the council rules, and then fund the position, and we haven't since. So something's gotta give. And it's been conversations among multiple council members that believe that we should take this money and move it into a line if the council members or a caucus of us believe that we need to have either financial or legal advice given that we believe is independent and that can really brief council members so that we can make informed decisions before this body so informed council members who have access to great information to make the best decision that they can is not only good for the for this for the Common Council it's good for the residents of the city of Buffalo and I think that this is prudent I believe that there's gonna be some things that you know there's some complexities that we need to go through with the resolution and and what that looks like in real life and an impracticality so I'm moving it to finance so other council members can weigh in and maybe we can come up with a some amendments to it and to see this through. And I look forward to a good discussion in the Finance Committee. Okay. Next. Item number 56, waive fees for Mass and District Family Reunion Event. Motion to approve items 56 through 59. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 60, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 60 and 61. Seconded by Council Member Golombak. Item number 62, Implement and Vacancy Control Measures. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 63, resolution in support of New York State Senate Bill 8575. Motion to send item 63 through and including 66 to ledge. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 67, waive fees for University United Festival and Parade. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, March 12, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, March 12, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on rules will also be Tuesday, March 12, 2024 at 11 AM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, March 12, 2024 at 1 PM. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, March 12, 2024 at 2 PM. Council members announcements for your districts majority leader Yes, on Thursday, March 7th, there's a community meeting for Cantara Dispensary, which will be at the Crane Library at 633 Elmwood from 1230 to 2 p.m. Also on March 7th, because we have a busy day talking about dispensaries, we'll be having a community meeting for another retail dispensary business at 1363 Delaware Avenue at 530 p.m. And then there will be an Ellicott stakeholders meeting in the Elmwood Village area on Saturday, March 23rd, from 1030 until 12 noon at the crane library also located at 633 Elmwood president pro tempore Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow from 6 to 8 p.m., we will be having a Houghton Park planning meeting, and that will be at our Autumnwood Senior Center. It's 1800 Clinton Street. That's tomorrow from 6 to 8, and this is a continuation of planning the Houghton Park revitalization, so we hope to see you out there. Thank you. Majority Leader, you have another one? Yes, I'm sorry I forgot. So there's one other, there's a women's business mixer on Wednesday, March 13th from 5.30 to 7.30 at the Buffalo Kitchen Club. Councilwoman Everhart. Just a reminder for Mass Injury Residents, our monthly stakeholders brunch will be held this coming Saturday, March 9th at the Delamont Grider Community Center from 10 to 1. Council member Nowakowski and I will be hosting a group of students from Hatch Tech on March 14th, Pi Day. And they will enjoy a tour of City Hall as well as some pie from Kate Crazy Bakery. Mr. President, if there's nothing else, motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member White. My inner geek is-