One year, we were walking together on the streets, hanging out, and we became good friends. At one time, I thought he was going to run for Lovejoy, so I was a little standoffish, because he was a really good candidate and a good council member as well. But when he decided not to run for Lovejoy, we became better friends. This council stops to pause for a moment of silence. You may be seated. Thank you.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Mrs. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on February 21st were approved.
 Council members, you have all of the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to the late files? I think we just received one. Did I just receive one? Somebody just stuffed something on my desk? Did everybody get 27A, claims committee agenda? All right. So we've got 27A, no objections. We'll hear all of the items that are in front of us. Not barring your right to object.
 when we get to that item on the top. Item 1, Annual Action Plan Amendment. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 2, Contract with New York State DOCCS and CEO. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Frielo. Item 3, Report of Sale, 203 COIT. Motion to approve Items 3, 4, and 5. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item 6, audit report, Revenue and City Clerk's Office. Motion is sent to finance. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 7, capital bonds, account closeout. Approved. Motion by Council Member Fontana. Item 8, certificate of necessity transfer funds planning. Motion to receive and file items 8 through 10. Okay. There was a question I think I just missed. Did we do the bond closeouts? Yes, because we did do that.
 Okay. Second by Council Member Fairletter, we need to revisit that item. Motion to revisit item number seven. Second by Council Member Golombet. There are two items in there that need to be pulled out from the closeout, and that is JFK Community Center improvement and the restoration. I'm looking for the item, the arts restoration. Do we see that there?
 Public arts restoration which will be out of fund 30 14 units 3 4 3 2 4 4 0 6 There is basically three thousand dollars left in that what I've asked is
 to happen is these pictures here are cracking in the council chambers and if some of that money we can restore at least one of them or what we can get that's what that money was for and also MUNIS item number 35328306 because there's more work that needs to be done over at the JFK Community Center improvements
 And so those two I've asked to be pulled out of the closeouts and continue to be active bonds So what's that portion motion of old JFK? improvements in public restoration For arts out of the bond closeout second by council member fear letter Motion to approve the rest motion to approve second by council member fear letter item 11 notes apartment senior accountant motion to receive Excuse me
 Motion to send civil service items 11 and 12. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item 13, certificate of just base proportions. Motion to approve items 13 and 14. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 15, appoint clerk.
 Motion to send the civil service items 15 and 16 say my councilmember friends at I'm 17 notification cereals motion to receive and file to my console and And and wave the 45 days Second by council same most stands with the waiting of 45 days. I'm a teen change or Kenmore Avenue Reconstruction motion to approve items 18 through 25 second by councilmember go Lombok and 26 appoint truck driver. I
 motion to send civil service items 26 and 27 second by councilmember why I'm 27 a claims agenda Motion to send to the claims committee said my husband for your letter. I'm 28 food store license 1482 Broadway motion to approve with conditions items 28 and 29 second by customer friends at item 30 food store license 909 Jefferson motion to send to legislation Say my customer friends at 31 food store license 1390 Jefferson
 Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 32, food store license 1065, Tana Wanda. Motion to approve items 32 and 33. Second by Council Member... And 34. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item 35, used car dealer 1193 Jefferson. Motion to send to Leitch. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 36, appoint building inspector.
 Excuse me, can we revisit items 32 and 33? Seconded by Council Member Golomba. 32 and 34. Those items are to go to ledge. What's that, 33 and 34? Items 32 through 35 should go to ledge. Okay. So we already sent the other one to ledge, so what's the motion to send 32 and 34? 34 to ledge, seconded by Council Member Golomba.
 Item 37, Community Foundation for Greater Buffalo. Motion to send finance. Seconded by Council Member Fontaine. Item 38, Fire Department retaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve items 38 and 39. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 40, item recalled from the Mayor. Motion to receive and file items 40 through...
 48 so my council really through 46 46 second by council member friends I'm 47 notice appointment council intern motion to adopt and my customer Wingo and 48 notice appointment seasonal motion to receive and file second by council member fear level and 49 notice of points temporary provisional permanent motion is sent to civil service and a black council member I'm 50 notice appointment council intern motion to adopt and my cousin remember this Laney side is item 51 Airbnb response
 Motion is sent to ledge. Second by Council Member Fransk. Item 52, NYS DEC Brownfield Cleanup, 791 Washington. Motion to receive and file items 52 and 53. Second by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I just wanted to speak on number 53, and although we're receiving and filing it, I want to thank my colleague, Councilmember Fontana, for an excellent meeting regarding the deli stores. This is our second year doing it. We had a packed house with deli stores who came to us, and we had conversation with the community about their store, whatever issues they may have been. And we did have a number of issues.
 But the good news was we were able to balance it out so that the community won and the deli store won. They knew what the expectations were and we moved forward. This lacked before. Now we have a process in place that I believe is getting a great deal of attention. The deli store owners know what they expect. And I think we're raising the standard of our deli stores because a lot of them come from countries where they may not have had a standard, they just knew how to open up a business.
 but we're working with them to make sure that the community is informing them of what their needs, their expectations are. And it's a fair process, so I want to thank him for his support. He had a good turnout and was respectful and it was done decently and in order. So we look forward to continuing that process as well as elevating it even further
 because after the conversation, there were some things that troubled me that I'm not going to bring up right now, but I'm going to bring forth legislation to continue to develop a dialogue to look at improving the deli stores even more. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good job. Council Member Fontana. It truly was a great job. This is the brainchild of Council Member Wyatt. And just to give you a visual, you have the store owners right in the room. And he'll only talk to the store owners. That's it. Only the store owner.
 And then you have the residents that are in the room too, and they'll wait for the deli to be called and they'll say, you know, we might talk to the deli owner, he might be trying to snow us a little bit, he might be trying to tell us a brosy picture. Then you have the residents right there saying, no, no, that's not what's going on. I got rats in my yard, the place is a mess. Then we're able to address problems right on the scene. You got to get inspections there. You have the Buffalo Police Department with Chief Menza and Chief Lark doing a great job.
 and then as well as the council office. So you have all three branches, and as well as Vinnie Ferraccio from the inspections. So they're getting hit from all angles. All they can do is duck for cover, and then hopefully do the right thing down the road. So we put conditions under license, and it's none of that I don't speak English stuff, it's none of that come back later, my boss isn't here. The boss is there.
 The council is there, the administration is there, and everyone's in the same room together. And it really gave residents a chance to come and address a problem deli in their neighborhood right to everybody at once. Great, great program. Proud to be part of it, and I think Rasheed did a terrific job. Great. Good deal. So the residents appreciate it. And the owners and the storehouse.
 Next item. Petitions, item 54, use 1335 hurdle. Motion to send to ledge and city planning board items 54 through 56. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 57, Buffalo Immigrant and Refugee Leadership Team. Motion is sent to ledge. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Committees. Civil Service, item 1, appoint exterminators.
 We came fast. A motion to approve items number one through including number four. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Item five, notice of apartments temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive and file. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Finance Committee, item six, request approval of certificate of current base proportions. All right, this one was junk, so we're going to receive and file this one.
 Second by Council Member Franza. Item 7, award and execute website CMS contract. I hope it works this time. 7 through 10, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 11, permission to accept funding under DCJS protection equipment. I'm going to go over to the Majority Leader for a motion and comment on the item. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This is going to be an approval, but I'd just like...
 For the general public, for those folks that have contacted us over the last few days regarding concerns with regards to the rifle and the grant that was given to the City of Buffalo, we did have a caucus meeting yesterday. We had approximately ten folks that had showed up to the caucus meeting with concerns. And some of them were legitimate concerns with regards to training. However, there were some other concerns that
 I thought was just misinformation and certainly we want to make sure that people are informed the type of weapons that the Buffalo Police Department will be purchasing. These are long rifles. They're not fully automatic. They use the same ammunition that the regular side-arm block they used. It has the same capacity. The only difference is this is accurate. The weapon makes it more accurate.
 and they will be assigned to supervisors, lieutenants in each respective sector in the city of Buffalo. Should there be a terrorist act or a shooting...
 or a live shooting situation going on somewhere in the city of Buffalo, they will respond, then give the officers that are trained these weapons to deal with whatever conflict there is. So there will be training to go along with this. Many of the folks in the room felt that there needed to be more training prior to giving out these arms.
 So we did have a conversation immediately after the caucus meeting. Some of the council members gathered around, and we talked about it with regards to training and training
 And there was a mention of possibly doing de-escalation prior or along with the training that they're going to receive. I did contact Commissioner Duranda and Deputy Commissioner Beattie in training, and I suggested, and they were full agreement, the Buffalo Police Department wants every officer that is going to,
 be armed with these weapons to have training in de-escalation. So I ask Deputy Commissioner Beattie, sometimes people have doubts because we're not clear with them.
 We don't give them the kind of training that works. They need bullet points. They need to know exactly what does Blue Courage mean. If you come to the Common Council and you say we're going to give Blue Courage training, well what does Blue Courage training? If you're going to give crisis service training, what does it mean? Give us some bullet points. Give us something to give the public. So they can have confidence in the type of training that we're providing through the police academy. So she sent me a list of de-escalation training.
 and that they're going to make sure that's part of the approving motion here today, if you so choose, if this council chooses. This training will be provided to each and every officer, and I just want, for the general public, so they understand, and those that are at home watching us, first type of training for de-escalation is crisis intervention team.
 Now, this training covers these areas, just bullet points. I'm not going to go through everything. Bullet points are remaining calm, managing their own response, setting limits, handling challenging situations, and trying to prevent a physical encounter. So it's more preventive training. This will develop skills within the police officers so they can go and deal with the challenges they have in front of them. The second, and that's 40 hours. Okay.
 The second training is an additional 16 hours. It's called Blue Courage Training that she mentioned here before us. That's done in-house in the police academy. That starts within the next few weeks. The crisis training has already begun as a pilot project, I believe, in B District. It's in B District because of the mental institutions they have in B District, and it's going to go throughout the city. The Blue Courage is going to begin in two weeks. They've already ordered the material.
 The people that are going to be providing the training are certified and trained in this area. And just these are the bullet points. Refreshing the heart and mindset of law enforcement officers. Sounds more like sensitivity training. And, you know, I think this is very important. I've been an advocate of sensitivity training with the Buffalo Police Department to deal with people.
 to be sensitive to the different types of people, whether it's racial, whether it's economic, you name it. Sensitivity training, they call it something different. It's called refreshing the heart and mindset of law enforcement officers. They can call it what they want.
 teach healthy coping mechanisms and de-escalation techniques, prioritizing the nobility of policing and respecting and implementing conflict resolution, implementing procedural justice to ensure that each encounter is fair, officers giving citizens a voice, the police citizen's encounter is transparent and experienced, and the officers act with impartiality.
 This is a bullet point of the training, de-escalation training, that will be part of the approving motion that we're going to do today. And then finally, the decision to...
 How to arm the Buffalo Police Department, the officers, it's not a decision that I don't think the council should make. We're not experts in weapons. We don't have the intelligence, the information at our fingertips. Those are decisions that are normally left to the command staff, the commissioners, the people that have the intelligence and information. So we have to be very careful, and I explain this to many of the residents. We're given information by the command staff. This is what we need.
 to meet the challenges and to be prepared for any situation. So many times they look to us and they think that we are the ones that make, you know, we know what kind of training they need and what kind of weapons they need. No, we don't know. We expect them that we rely on their expertise. So today we're going to prove this.
 We support our men and women. We want to make sure that they have adequate resources. And this council has always provided where it's needed to provide those resources. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So will you submit that to the record? So this will be...
 to the record and this will be mandatory training that must occur for anyone who is going to be authorized to utilize that weapon. Correct.
 So we have it submitted for the record, and if the media would like a copy of it, why don't we go ahead and make a copy of some copies of that now so that the media can have it. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. There's one point that I forgot to mention, and that is training and the cost of training. And though they have begun the crisis service training,
 Crisis service is funding the training and they can only go as far as the money allows them to go with regards to training each officer. At some point this common council may have to go back and say hey we want every officer trained. What can we do to make sure that crisis service has adequate resources to provide every officer with the crisis training team training.
 And I think this council has not been shy in the past about insisting or trying, at least, to ask whether there's adequate money for training. I think in the last budget cycle when we asked, we were told yes.
 And we still added, I believe, to that training dollar, but everyone has to be honest here. They need money for training, they've got to say it, and I think that one of the concerns of citizens is that people are trained. But I've also heard from the union who said we want to be trained.
 So it's our responsibility to provide the resources, but we can't just throw a number out there in the sky. It has to be real. We have to know what it's going for. And so I encourage our police department, those areas that we really need that training to make sure we get it. Council Member Golomba.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I was ready to vote yes on this item for numerous reasons, one of which is that I do want to make sure that our officers are prepared for any type of an eventuality. You know, I voted yes to have security placed here in City Hall. I hated doing it, absolutely hated doing it.
 This was always that building that people could come to and be comfortable coming into, and it still should be. But sadly, we live in a very, very different day and age than when we were growing up or our parents or our grandparents. We live in a day and an age when violence is far more rampant than it has been, and the acceptance of violence is much more rampant.
 I have been a supporter of the Buffalo Police Department and I will continue to be a supporter of the officers of the City of Buffalo. I think that unfortunately they don't get the credit that they deserve. You know, one horrible thing might happen, you know, we had an incident a month or so ago where a young man died. I don't know if he was killed, I don't know exactly what happened, nobody knows at this point.
 But how many hundreds, how many thousands of things have happened in the past month or two since the first of the year in which Buffalo police officers were able to de-escalate things? We never hear about that. It's sort of like, I remember when I first was elected to the council, somebody that had been in City Hall much longer than I had said to me, you know what, you do too much preemptive work in your district. And I said, what do you mean?
 And I had some friends who were police officers that would mark down potholes and problems for me, and I would forward them to the Department of Public Works. And they told me, they said, well, you're better off having people hit a pothole and then fix that pothole because you're the hero. And I said, well...
 I don't want to be the hero that way. I'd rather have the pothole fixed so that nobody hits the stupid thing and nobody complains about it. I understand the point, though, that the person was making. When you're proactive, you don't know what kind of problems you solve. We have not had the problems in the city of Buffalo that other large municipalities have had with police issues. And that's, I think, a commendation of Mayor Brown, Commissioner Durenda, and all of the officers in the police department.
 You're always going to find an issue or a bad day or something that is going wrong at any given time, but overall the Buffalo Police Department has done an outstanding job. Now, to go to these rifles, to piggyback on what the Majority Leader said,
 I think that some people have made this an either-or thing. Either they get the rifles or they get the training. I think that what this council has tried to do is work together so that it doesn't have to be an either-or game. It can be both. We want our police officers to be trained. Councilmember Scanlon and I were just talking, God forbid if something ever happened in this building, we want officers that are going to be able to come in here and are going to be able to protect the citizens, the employees of this building.
 And that probably isn't going to be de-escalation. That's probably, sadly, in this day and age, going to be weaponry. But hopefully that day will never happen. At the same time, we do want these officers to be trained so that they know how to talk to people, so that they can talk to people with mental illnesses, so that they can talk to people who might be high on drugs. Look at what we've done working with Mayor Brown in the past couple of years with the opioid...
 problem that we have in the city. You know, four or five years ago, our officers didn't know how to use Narcan. I talked to officers in the fire department that on a regular basis use that and save lives. On multiple days, I have friends in police and fire that will tell me, you know, two times, three times last night we had to use them. So I think that we have been making great strides as a city. I think that we're heading in the right direction.
 And I think that we need to give our officers the tools, both training and armament, sadly, for this new millennium. And I will continue to push in support for both, for the training and for the weapons, so that our officers can make themselves safe and they can make the residents of the city of Buffalo safe. Okay.
 Mr. Fonten. There's no doubt in my mind, even today, before we approved this item, that we're overpowered on the streets of the city of Buffalo, and we were underpowered because of the lack of a proper weapon. This is for active shooter situations. A man with a gun shooting at people. A supervisor gets to the scene, or an officer.
 If they pull out their Glock and the gentleman is too far away, or the shooter's too far away, it might not get hit properly. This rifle gives the officers greater range and accuracy. That's all it does. It's the same gauge. So if anyone's listening at home, the union should be commended for bringing this to the council. I remember when they came down and they were asking for a larger weapon. I think they were asking for too large of a weapon, and it kind of scared people. We don't want to arm our police officers like Rambo.
 But we do want them to have the proper tool to do the job, the proper gun. This, working with the police commissioner, is the proper tool to be using. It will be stored in the vehicle, tucked away, in some cases locked. The weaponry that the officers currently have fit into the gun, so they'll have over 40 to 50 shots, one at a time, not semi-automatic, one at a time. Every bullet is a trigger pull.
 And it's the same caliber. So if I shoot you with a Glock or if I shoot you with this rifle, it does the same thing. But the accuracy is important to the general public because that will stop stray bullets from a Glock from maybe getting in the wrong situation. So it's an active shooter. People talk about de-escalation. If someone's shooting, the only de-escalation is a shot. That's it. You're not going to talk them out of shooting a gun once they start shooting something. Now, before they shoot, that's the de-escalation training. That's where that comes in.
 Two separate issues. This is about active shooter. We're also purchasing higher quality, thicker, heavier vests for officers to be worn at a scene. Currently, officers are telling me on the streets of the city of Buffalo that many officers are going out and buying their own plates and putting them in. Now, that's a problem for the women because some of the women can't carry all that extra weight. So they're stuck with a thinner...
 Well, the normal rate. They might not have the option to want to put on extra weight. So I'm hearing the guns in the street will penetrate some of these armors that we're wearing. That's a problem. This gives the officers the opportunity to go in the trunk, throw over everything a new vest.
 which is now 25 pounds, but gives them the extra protection that they need in the case of an active shooter. So this is not harming our officers like Rambo. This is a good work between the police commissioner. It's good that the union brought this to our attention, saying we're underpowered, we need more power. And then this council to deliberate under the leadership of Mr.
 Rivera, I think moving the site of the city is the wise choice. I fully support it. I think it makes our streets safer, and it makes our officers safer, and it makes for a cleaner and better city. So I'm all for it. Thank you, sir. Mr. Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I really appreciate the opportunity for the council to have had the chance to vet this. And also, again, I was never in favor of arming.
 our police department with military grade weapons. That to me is ridiculous. Those weapons were made to terminate, kill, take out. All of those terms all mean the same thing, which results in someone being dead. The current weapon that the police use, the Glock, what we're doing with this weapon here, this rifle, this quad, this quad rail rifle, is using the same
 caliber round using the same clip from the Glock in this rifle. And Mr. President, if I'm not mistaken, your master's degree is in organizational development
 My master's degree is in public administration, leadership, management. And one of the things that we are always trying to do is maximize efficiency. And I believe that's what this is doing. This is maximizing efficiency. We're taking the Glock, which has a very short barrel, and we are extending that barrel to 16 inches, which
 exponentially increases the accuracy at twice the difference, at twice the distance. So with this weapon, we're not increasing the velocity, we're not increasing the power, we're maximizing the efficiency. And I think that's what we really need to drive home in stress. And then it also pleases me, Mr. Chair, that this new equipment is going to come with training.
 Not only are we going to give them a new weapon, but this weapon is coming with training. And again, the Buffalo Police Department is willing to supplement that training with other trainings as well. As, you know, Buffalo Police Department, the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner reached out and shared some information with me as well regarding the de-escalation techniques that they'll be teaching the police officers.
 So all that said, I'm very comfortable with ensuring that our officers when they're responding to an active shooter scene, that they have much more accurate weapons to use to take down a target. That target is not considering the police officer's life. That target is not considering the people who are around, maybe in the vicinity, maybe get hit with a stray bullet. But we want to make sure that
 the police officer, after they've executed or tried to implement all manners of de-escalation techniques, have the most accurate piece of equipment as possible, which would be this rifle that uses the current
 uh, magazine that they're currently using, their Glock. So, with that said, I'm in favor of it, and again, too, favoring it, especially because it's being accompanied with the training for the de-escalation techniques. Other than that, those are my comments. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you to all of your comments. I think one of the things we have to separate out, some of the speakers yesterday talked about different police incidents.
 And I think that you can't take an incident of one officer and then suggest that we should not adequately equip officers. There's an officer, I won't say his name, in the room right now who works with our young people, who's a great officer on the street. Would I trust him with this weapon? Absolutely. As probably 99% of our officers.
 So I think it's the right thing to do. We have addressed the concerns, though, I want to be clear, of the public that came to us with the concerns. So we're not just moving this forward. We've addressed those concerns, and I believe those are legitimate concerns. And obviously this council does if we vote unanimously on it. This entire council is recognizing those concerns,
 but also recognizing the need, as you said, Mr. Wingo, for greater accuracy than others. I was a cop in the Air Force, and when I was in the Air Force we had 38s, and that's what we use. They're not accurate at all, you know, clumsy, big.
 and that weaponry changed as technology changed. And I don't know if there's a police force besides Mayberry that has 38 revolvers anymore. And so if there was a bad detective in Mayberry, what was it, Andy and, uh... Barney. Barney. If Barney was no good,
 You can't take away from Andy because of what Barney didn't do. And I think that that is what we have here today. So, gentlemen, hearing that and hearing the comments, motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Next item. Item 12, second quarter gap. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 I'm sorry. Okay, okay. Community Development Committee, Item 13, Appointment Commission on Citizens' Rights and Community Relations.
 Motion to receive and file 13, 14, and 15. Seconded by Council Member Glover. Item 16, right to fair and affordable housing. Motion to send to the legislature. I'm sorry. You made the motion. Sorry. Seconded by President Pro Temp's candidate. Go ahead. Motion to send item 16 to the Legislation Committee. Those items are currently being discussed there. It's a more appropriate committee for this item. Seconded by Majority Leader Riviere. Legislation Committee. Item 17, food store license 1326 East Ferry. Motion to approve with condition. Motion.
 Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 18, used car dealer 1367 Bailey. 18 and 19 originally came without recommendation. The motion for those two are now to recommit. Second by Council Member Fontana.
 Item 20, used car dealer 98 Wasmuth. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item 21, used 2110 Elmwood, Polesign. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item 22, local law amending Article 7 hiring requirements audit and control. This originally came without recommendation. My motion is now to recommit. And then just when we get a second, I know the controller is anxious about this item. But I had a conversation with Mr. Ball today yesterday.
 And he is doing research to ascertain whether or not that this local law would require a referendum. Is it somehow changes the power of the controller? So he needs to know if that has to be done. So he will get back to us. I spoke with Lauren also today. And also I was approached by Mr. Drennan, who is the president of Local 650, who said,
 I know spoke to Mr. Ferletto and Mr. Blumbeck, perhaps to others, and he asked for an opportunity to speak to the Legislation Committee about this local law. Second by Council Member White. Item 23, local law amending Article 7. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Resolutions. Item 58, Rugby Road Residential Overlay Parking District. Motion. Motion.
 This is item 58? Yes, sir. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fairlatt. Item 59, discharge item 17, 254 from committee. Motion to adopt item 59 and 60. Second by Council Member Fontana, who has the floor. Mr. Fairlatt, if we could adopt the final resolve and send the remainder on 60 to finance, that way we can work on it.
 Which item? 60. 60? Adopt the final result? And then the remainder to finance. Second by Council Member Columbus. Thank you. Or whoever made the key. Item 61, Transfer Funds, General City Planning. Motion to approve. Items 61 and 62. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 63, LLV Habitual Offender Registry. Motion to adopt. Second by...
 Similar, similar here. I know that's true. Yeah, if we could adopt the results and send the remainder to legislation on this one, there's some good work done in my office by Caleb. He's been working on this item for a while now, and we're looking to put forth a registry, but that takes some time. And there's a problem in the city of Buffalo where people are arrested 20, 25 times,
 burglars back out on the street the next day. It's just absolutely ridiculous. So I think people have a right to know who these types of offenders are that are just going through the criminal justice system like it's water. And guard against them. There's a gentleman in our neighborhood that lives on Gold Street, and Ronnie Rickard is his name.
 And he's been breaking into houses his whole life, his whole damn life. And he still lives on Gold Street and walks around like he's the king of the neighborhood. But he's actually a crook. And he kicks in side doors of old ladies' houses. He kicks in the side doors of families' houses. He doesn't care who he breaks into. He just breaks in. And I think his name should be placed somewhere. And that's why when Caleb brought this to my attention, I said, you know what? This makes sense. We should go with this. So we'll talk a lot more on committee.
 But I think the residents should have a place to go to know if they're living next to a crook and then be able to guard against that accordingly. Motion for that to resolve the remainder to legislation. You want to share that name with all of us? No, I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. 383 Gold Street. So we can all watch our neighborhoods. It's a White House. Thank you. I don't care. Item 643. A waiver for old neighborhood. Motion to approve.
 Let's think about present pro-tribe scaling. 165, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. Let's think about cultural forensic. 166, database of dilapidated properties. Motion to adopt the resolves for both items and remainder to legislation for items 66 and 67.
 Thank you. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Just briefly on these two items. One is the database for dilapidated properties. I'm going to send this, as we said, to Ledge. We want to make sure that this gets written as soon as possible and this database is up. And this is because we have neighborhoods that have dilapidated properties from absentee landlords. I want to be clear. This shouldn't be a database for a senior citizen.
 who can't get their gutter up. I don't want to see someone who's just having a hard time. This is for chronic absentee landlords. In Elgort District we have put up two slumlord signs already on property and we put their name, their address, right in front of the property on a nice stable sign that Public Works puts out there. We lost one sign. It disappeared one night in the middle of the night. Maybe that guy
 from Lovejoy came and stole it. He used it for floorboards in his car. Yeah, well, it was gone. So the other one is still there. And when we put that slumlord sign up, the lawyer for the homeowner called me, like in an hour. In an hour. Called, could we take down the sign? And the answer was, absolutely not. And they started work. They didn't finish it yet, but they started work.
 I would like to see a database where people can go online, see the name of who owns it, the current address of what we have, and any other information. And again, this is for these chronic absentee landlords that think you can prospect, buy a property in the city of Buffalo, go back to New York City, go back to Rochester where you live, and then just leave. Or some of them...
 right here in the city of Buffalo and just leave neighborhoods with, they're just handcuffs. So this database will be so that you can get on and you can find out who owns the not taking care of house in your neighborhood that has violations and back and forth to court. The second one is on the pawn shop. I was contacted by a city detective, actually a couple of them, about right now
 If someone steals an item from you and pawns it,
 Of course they've got to give their ID, but there isn't a necessarily searchable database that the pawn shop has to keep. So the detective goes in, says I'm looking for this item. If it's been given back or if it's been sold, there's no way for them to look at the database and see if you're looking for a gold eagle that was stolen from a house. And so this will help and hopefully
 hinder the amount of fencing that we're seeing right now from people breaking into houses, going to the pawn shop, because a lot of times when you lose stuff in a robbery, you don't even know you've lost it because, you know, you just don't know everything is gone until you go forward.
 and then in two months you go and it's gone, and now the pawn shop has already gotten rid of it, and there's no record. So this hopefully will discourage gentlemen, like you mentioned, from at least going to that pawn shop and trying to pawn the items. Now I know there was discussion on this before, and I remember some of the pawn shops really lobbying hard or coming to me saying there was too much word to take a digital picture and to catalog it.
 Well, my feeling at this point, if it's too much work, get out of the business. Find something else to do. Open up an ice cream parlor. But if you're going to do a pawn shop, we know that a lot of people use pawn shops to fence items. If you're going to be in this business, hey, you've got to help us out or find another business. Cash checks. Do something else. Next, Council Member White. Can you click in for me?
 Thank you. And that's only so that the records, you got it. I'd just like to be co-sponsored on number 66, we are the dilapidated properties. I think that's something that is definitely plaguing my district in a big way and if we can get something like that where residents can gain access to know who, I think that's really important. Absolutely. And right now they can go on the website but there's not a, you know, they can go and they can look up any property.
 see who the owner is, but not always. That information isn't always accurate, and this is just if you want to be that landlord, we're going to make sure we give you all of the attention that we can give you to encourage you to clean up your mess. I'm sure my black Council Member Wyatt, Council Member Wingo, Council Member Wingo. All right. Council Member Revere. I'd like to be added to the pawn shop one. All right. As a former investigator, we solved many crimes. Homicides, robberies, burglaries,
 from the items that people pawn because they belong to the victims of the crimes. So this is very important. It's not just a simple, you know, we just want record keeping. This actually is a tool to solve crimes. Thank you. Please add Council Member Rivera to the pawn shop. Council Member Frioletto to the pawn shop. Council Member Frioletto to the pawn shop. Council Member Fontana to the pawn shop. Council Member Wyatt to the pawn shop. Council Member Wingo to the pawn shop.
 Councilmember Golombek to the pawn shop. Councilmember, et al. Thank you all for you. Have you ever pawned anything? Did I sound like an auctioneer? I think I'd go into business. No. Et al.
 Thank you all for your support on that. Next item. Item 68, Black Pedestrian Advisory Board Appointment. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 69, Trailblazing Sign in honor of Paul Corcoran. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item 70, Denial Level 3 Communications. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item 71, Wave Feed for School 72 Field Day. Motion to approve.
 Second by Council Member Frioletto. Council Member Wingo, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This resolution supports the New York State Climate and Community Protection Act. This is simply calling on, first let me just commend Senator Kennedy, Assembly Member Kearns, Assembly Member Crystal Peoples-Stokes,
 and Assemblymember Sean Ryan for their support of this bill. Because we all understand and we know that there is a population in our community that has our disenfranchised and our marginalized population. Those who are really impacted the most are mainly those who have the least to do with the current conditions that they live in.
 And we have to make sure that we're doing everything that we can to protect that class of people. And also make sure that we're doing what we can to try to mitigate the effects, the adverse effects of climate change. Because climate change is real. Not last week we were having...
 60 degree weather in February. I don't know how anyone could deny that climate change is not real. So the purpose of this bill is to enact the New York State Climate and Community Protection Act to address and mitigate the impacts of climate change in New York and this we all
 Climate change especially heightens the vulnerability of disadvantaged communities which bear environmental and socioeconomic burdens. So we want to improve the resiliency of New York State and across the country. Probably be a leader in this movement as we ensure that this Climate and Community Protection Act gets passed. So thank you to Macaulay, to our on board with this and for approving this so that we can move forward with our support of this bill. Absolutely. Considering we may not have any federal money soon for this.
 Right. President Franca? Yes, thank you, Mr. President. You know, I've said on this floor before that it's – we're fortunate to live in New York State because of the initiatives that are coming out of Washington. And you have an administration in Washington that is denying the science of climate change. Now the vast majority of responsible scientists in this country indicate that it's human activity that is accelerating.
 the deterioration of the ozone and the increasing temperature throughout the world. It's not the only reason, but it's a significant reason this is happening. It's only those on the marginals and fringe of pseudoscience that claim that this phenomenon is not occurring in some form or another. So you have an administration now that is actively arguing that climate change is a hoax.
 or a conspiracy from China or what have you. And the corollary to that is a massive proposed budget fund slashing for the Environmental Protection Agency. Interestingly enough, I remember when it was founded by a Republican president.
 The Republican president of the United States, Richard Nixon, founded and had Congress support the EPA, Environmental Protection Agency. Its first director was Donald Ruckelshaus. I remember that because it was Earth Day, which is going to come next month. It was the first Earth Day, and I remember all that attention paid to that because of tremendous amounts of pollution, smog. I remember smog, not so much in Buffalo, but we did have it on our waterfront. We had factories, Bethlehem Steel, there was smog.
 The pollution of the water. I remember when Lyndon Johnson was president, he had Stanley Spishak of Kysertown took LBJ out in a boat to show how polluted Lake Erie was.
 how, you know, the fish were being affected. It was very cloudy with phosphates. And now the tragedy is that you had Congressman Higgins recently had a press conference about these massive slashing in EPA funds, which also includes reducing from $300 million for the Great Lakes down to perhaps $10 million, which is a total pittance. We've cleaned up the Buffalo River.
 We've cleaned up good parts of Lake Erie. Our Great Lakes and Lake Erie are threatened by blue-green algae, which is by runoff from farms and pesticides. I sponsored a resolution some years ago about having a pact.
 with the Great Lakes, that Buffalo be involved, and Steve Stepnack from Public Works came in and spoke to it about combating blue-green algae, which has not come to Buffalo. We're deeper here, but it has been seen in Presque Isle and Erie, and Erie's not that far away.
 So, with the massive slashing on funds by the federal government to clean up our Great Lakes, we're putting in danger the progress that we've made for swimability, usability of our lakes. Also, the return of wildlife like the bald eagle, you know.
 There are bald eagles in our area now, up from the Buffalo area, Niagara Falls, all the way up to the Pennsylvania line and beyond and Lake Erie. And they didn't exist because the eggs that the female eagle produced
 the pesticides damaged their eggs, made them too thin. So they're dying out, they become extinct. But now they've made a comeback because we've had legislation regulating the use of some of these materials. With this hell or high water attitude that let industry do whatever it wants just to make money, is an idea that's like pre-1960s, you know, there used to be a commercial
 They showed a commercial on TV showing a Native American guy, who was actually, the guy was an Italian-American actor, but he played an American Indian in the 60s. And it was a commercial, and he goes and he sees how polluted the waters are, the garbage that's everywhere, the smog, and you see tears coming down his eyes. And I just can't believe we have to refight those fights from the 1960s. But you have a very, this resolution by Mr. Wingo is very timely on a number of fronts.
 And it's just incredulous to me that we've gone the wheel full circle to a mentality that is so backward, that is so destructive. You know, you can have industry, you can have progress, but you can do it in a way that's cleaner, that's cheaper, that's safer. And to think of jeopardize, deny global warming or to jeopardize.
 You know, the recovery of our waterways, which are so vitally important for the success of Buffalo, to me, is unconscionable. And to the extent that a resolution like this, you know, appeals to New York State, at least we have, at least on this front, at least more enlightened leadership in this state. Thank you. Absolutely.
 Next item. That's going to CD. Oh, we didn't even get to that item. First of all, we didn't even call that item. Who got a called item? Item 72, support of New York State Climate and Community Protection Act. Motion to CD. Motion to send to CD. You want to send it to CD? Or you want to, no. You just want to approve. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Winkle. All right. To mark the CD. Item 73, Commissioner of Deeds. Deeds.
 Motion to adopt items 73 and 74. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 75, Budget and Personnel Amendment, Golf Courses and Gardens. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor. Can we revisit item number 70? Motion to revisit item 72? Yes. Listen to the CD, because we do have some people coming in to speak on this particular issue. So are there resolves? Do you want to adopt the resolves in the remainder? Yes.
 Yes. Motion to adopt the resolved remainder CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Thank you. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, March 14th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, March 14th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, March 14th, 2 p.m. Claims Committee, Thursday, March 16th, 11 a.m.
 Council members, any announcements for your districts? Council member Franczak's hand went up faster than anybody's today. Yeah, fast, because it's coming up fast.
 It's coming up on Saturday, March 11th at 12 noon in the old First Ward community. There's going to be the old First Ward and Valley neighborhood St. Patrick's Day parade. It originally kicked off over 100 years ago and revived not too long ago. And the parade, which is fun for all, everybody will have a great time. There's lots of floats and lots of marchers, and your friends will all be there. Thank you.
 And it starts at 12 noon at the Valley Community Center. And it goes over the bridge on South Park and it goes down O'Connell. It goes down Hamburg to O'Connell to Louisiana Street. All the neighbors are out and it would be a good time to be had for all in the Old First Ward Valley original St. Patrick's Day parade. All right, Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. On Tuesday,
 March the 14th at 6 p.m. at the Delavan Grider Center, we will have our Delhi food store condition signing. Now, of course, this is all...
 as a result from the efforts of Councilmember Wyatt with his food store deli meetings that he had with the community. We've adopted that same model in the Mastin District and we will be having the official signing of the deli stores coming through the Delavan Riders Center to actually sign the food store conditions to renew them for this next year. And also, of course, this coming Saturday, the Mastin District Breakfast. Thank you.
 The Madison District Breakfast will be at 8.30. We will have our stakeholders meeting, and we will serve you breakfast at 8.30. If you are not doing anything, come on out at 8.30, 8.77, Delavan to the Madison District Stakeholders Breakfast, and we hope that you bring someone with you. Council Member Golomba?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to thank Councilmember Scanlon for letting me know that this year is going to be the most exciting St. Patrick's Day festival in the city of Buffalo because it's the first one after finding out after doing my DNAancestry.com that I'm Irish.
 You're Irish. I'm Irish, yes. A portion of you is Irish. It's actually less than 1%, but it was the only thing that came back that was like, where did that come from? So Chris said that I will be especially welcome in South Buffalo, the Valley of the Ward, for this St. Patrick's Day. Congratulations. Council Member Scanlon? I don't know what he's talking about. I can't stand the Irish. Council Member Wyatt.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just want to thank you for your brainchild regarding our Stop the Madness basketball tournament. My district, the University District, will be participating on Saturday, March 18th at the Edward Saunders Community Center. Registration starts at 11, but it's from 12 to 5. I'm really excited about this. We know that this is not the end all to stop the violence in our community, but it's something
 We have to do something to engage our young people in another mindset, instead of just being out there on the street doing some of the negative things. So I'm glad to participate with you, along with the Lovejoy District, Mastin District, and Elligot District, to do something to engage our young people in a positive way, in hopes that the words that we use during this conversation, along with our police department, I've got to mention our police department,
 is participating, our first responders are participating. So I'm looking forward to it. I think that community, I've been getting a lot of texts from people that they want to participate, but I think it's a very positive thing. And on this, what this is, is each team has to have a first responder on it.
 a police officer. So there's all these young people coming together to play basketball. When we first talked about it, we thought about the law enforcement, and we said that's the problem. Law enforcement against community, community against law enforcement. Make them all play together. And so whether they're fire or they are from the stop the violence groups, or police, each team has a police officer on it, and it's females and males. And it'll be Ellicott will play on Saturday.
 Mastin will play on Saturday in their district, University will play in their district, Lovejoy, and then on that Sunday is the championship where Ellicott will win, but I mean, because... Oh, that was a joke. So, go ahead. And this is not to do with the tournament, but I know sometimes our police department gets such negative activity, but a woman called me because her son was shot on Genesee Street.
 And her son was put in a police car and the police saved his life. And they rushed him to ECMC. His life was saved because of the police. So I hope that people can understand that police are people too. We have issues, but at the end of the day, they are here to protect us. And this young man's life was saved. So I'm glad that this tournament is timely because with all the negativity, we need positive things that bring us together, not close apart. Last thing is...
 Take it from Council President Pridgen, I will be having a community council member in the district day at the Daily Planet coffee shop. I'm looking forward to it on Monday, March 13th. I've gotten a lot of e-mails and calls from residents who are looking forward to it, but it's something, again, to make myself accessible to the community, especially in the Hurdle District. So on March 13th, which is a Monday, at the Daily Planet, 862 Hurdle, from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.,
 2 p.m. your council member will be there to hear from you. No appointment necessary. No appointment necessary. You'll have a line. Did I miss anything, any council member? Council member Fairletto. Thank you. This Saturday at the North Buffalo Community Center from 10 a.m. until noon, there's a free wills in a state planning workshop to the North Buffalo Community Center, 203 Sanders Road, hosted by the Minority Bar Association, the Center for Elder Law and Justice.
 Attorney Asa Mosey, Mayor Byron Brown, Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples-Stokes, and myself. What's the date? You said Saturday, just in case I'm mistaken. Saturday, March 11th. March 11th. Any other announcements? Great job, Councilmember, Councilmember, Majority Leader. Second by Councilmember Scanlon.