Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. At ease. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scalin. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, liberty and justice for As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Too often as a council, we've gathered to pray for a grieving city, and yet again today, we gather in that posture. This morning, I was driving my friend, Pastor Tommy Reed, through the Boston foothills to a location, and in front of the fire station down there was RIP Firefighter Arnell. And the pain and the grief... when we look back 10 months that has continued in so many different fashions and ways and for those of you on the council who have close friends who are part of buffalo fire department and for the city and residents who have friends in that same vein his loss a week ago 34 years old 37 years old and right between my two sons deb and i've had those discussions Isaiah 53 talks about Jesus as a man of sorrows. John 11 says Jesus wept as he looked over Jerusalem. A young widow left behind a precious three-year-old daughter. And today, as Deb and I were walking across the street to City Hall, a fire engine with the engine... at emergency lights and sirens coming around the circle, and Dev and I paused and prayed immediately because it's just more real today for me and perhaps for each of you as well. I heard on the news that there are 1,000 rooms rented in Buffalo to out-of-town firefighters that are flying in for the services Thursday and then at St. Joe's on Friday. The world is coming, the nation is coming to mourn with us, but we that are here will keep mourning as they return back home again. Our prayers need to be for his physical family, his firefighter family, and all those that are deep in traumatic response right now. Would you bow with me in prayer? Father, weightiness comes upon us when tragedy strikes. And the pain is palpable well beyond this building, these walls, these chambers. Our heart and prayers go out to those who are hurting and grieving in the loss that came. Lord, we pray especially for this young widow and three-year-old daughter. And Lord, we ask that even now you'd pour love, mercy, grace into their lives. We pray for the extended family as grief upon grief is happening. and especially as services happen now in just a couple of days. We pray for the family of firefighters, recognizing that this hits them in a way that doesn't hit me, but hits them as an epicenter of the earthquake. Lord, their whole world shook, and we lift them to you now, and we pray deal with them in their time of loss, hurt, grief, as they work through tremendous pain, tremendous loss, and vulnerability. Lord, I thank you for each here who has a relationship with somebody at Buffalo Fire that can minister to them, can be with them, can sit with them, can talk with them, and help them on the journey ahead. Lord, as this city has grieved so many times, we pray be with us yet again and remind us, Lord, that at the end of even these tunnels of darkness, light lies ahead. We thank you now for your powerful presence in pain. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Council Members Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. As it was mentioned, this has been a heartbreaking week for the Buffalo Fire Department and the city of Buffalo as a whole. And although I know the entire city, the entire region, and many across the country are already doing so, I would ask that the residents of the city of Buffalo hold faith near and dear to their hearts and their prayers, the soul of the family and the friends of fallen Buffalo Fire Department member Jason Arno. Firefighter Arno was a 2003 graduate of Canisius High School, a 2020 graduate of the Buffalo Fire Academy, and he spent three years on the Buffalo Fire Department. He was a proud member of the department's Engine Company II having previously spent time with Engine 4 as well as Rescue 1. We all know here or are related to people who either worked on or currently work for the Buffalo Fire Department, and we know, just as those men and women of the department know, the inherent risks that accompany that job. But you never really think it's going to impact your loved ones or your family. But here we are with a family who's mourning the loss of their loved one, their hero, who went out and put his well-being in harm's way every time he put that uniform on for the residents of the city of Buffalo and ultimately gave the ultimate sacrifice last week courageously. Thank you. We should all be so lucky as to love a profession the way that Jason Arno felt about protecting the residents of the city of Buffalo. And we should all be so blessed as to approach it with the passion and the vigor that he did. My heart absolutely breaks for his wife Sarah, his daughter Olivia, his family, his colleagues on the Buffalo Fire Department. his countless friends the family will be presented a proclamation from all nine council members and I asked again that the city of Buffalo hold near and dear to their thoughts and their prayers Jason are knowing his family and friends thank you sir very appropriate anyone else I just wanted to add to what Councilmember Scanlon said, that we keep his family in our prayers. They were from North Buffalo. Jason attended the same grade school as I. He was a few years younger than I. His brother, Delton, was in my sister's class at St. Rose of Lima. And it was really a community. It was a very, very small Catholic school. It has since closed. There's, I don't know, 12 or 13 kids in each class. And I've seen several members from the St. Rose of Lima community In the past few days and they were talking about jason arnold and his family so certainly from The saint rose community, but the entire city of buffalo and all of our colleagues keep jason's family Friends in our prayers Any others councilmember? Thank you, Mr. President. To piggyback on that, All Saints Parish in the Riverside part of the city of Buffalo is having a mass on Saturday at 4 PM, March the 11th for the repose of the soul of Jason Arnone. When St. Florian Parish closed a decade or so ago, St. Florian was the patron saint of firefighters. and the saint florian statue actually moved from saint florian's to all saints and so too did the honor of uh firefighters so uh the parish called and asked me to invite anybody that wanted to attend on saturday march 11th at four o'clock that they were welcome to do so. That was also the home parish of one of the four firefighters that were, or five firefighters that were killed in the propane explosion in 1983, I believe. St. Florian was the other. So you had two young men from the Black Rock and Riverside area that died in that explosion. And then also very, very sad news for the Riverside neighborhood, Kelly Koester, wife of David Koester, she passed away early this morning, late last night. They were very, very active with the Little League football, Little League baseball. She was the unofficial mom of probably hundreds and hundreds of kids. We all know from being involved in Little League sports that when you get those families that live and breathe sports and love the children, the young men and women from the neighborhood. But I had so many kids that texted, kids, I mean they're in their 20s and 30s now, but that texted me black, white, Latino, right across the board and they said, I feel like my mom died. know this was this this was that woman but uh my heart reaches out for all of those in her real and extended family thank you councilmember white thank you mr president um like to ask for the prayers for clarence liggins um his wife lisa liggins passed she was a grandmother that saved a little betty baby on dartmouth she recently passed and i know it's very very difficult to bury children and now bury your wife So I'm asking for prayers as well as the young lady who died at a concert. I'm Rojija Belton. I'm 33 years old. You go to a concert and you don't end up coming home. So I know that that is hurting that family right now. So if we can keep them all in prayers, I'd appreciate it. Thank you. Absolutely. Anyone else? piggybacking on my colleagues, we take this moment here and dedicate this gathering today, this exercise in democracy, to our fallen firefighter and to his colleagues who were there, who had to almost be restrained not to go into that fire to save him. So we remember that, we remember him. We also do remember Lisa who many years sang in our choir, her and her daughter, although they didn't even belong to the church, they sang in the choir. And her family contacted me yesterday to do her services. So that's now six who have perished from that one incident. who it would have been more had it not been firefighters. So we pause in this chamber for a moment of silence for them and all others who have given their lives for people since our last meeting. We pause for a moment of silence. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Ms. Scanlon, minutes of stated meeting held on February 21st, 2023. Are approved council members late files are before you are leaning objections to any of late files that are before you saying no objections We will hear the entire agenda That's the majority leader to take one item out of order because this item relates to the fire on Main Street Mr. Chair motion to take item 62 from resolutions out of order second by council members scanly item number 62 transfer of funds for demolition and Motion is to approve. Motion is to approve. This is for the demolition of the building. We want to get this done quickly. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Thank you. Item number one, appoint Commissioner of Human Resources. Motion to send to Civil Service items one and two. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number three, allocate Park Town Homes Community Partners. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number four, permission to request to enter into a contract for Riverside and Military. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Glombert. Item number five, Planning Board of Finances for Zone and Map Amendment 172, Goodell Street. Motion to send the legislation. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number six, reported sale, 360, Dearborn. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number seven, reported sale, 1446, Maine. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item number eight, Certificate of Necessity Inspections of Capital Outlay. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number nine, City of Buffalo Issue Management Letter. Motion to send to finance items 9 and 10. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 11, notification serial. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 12, Buffalo Museum of Science roof replacement. Motion to approve items 12 through 21. second my council member volman item number 22 notice of appointment for equipment operator motion to send civil service item of 22 and 23. say my customer for your loan Item number 24, appoint Battalion Chief. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by President Pro Temp Scala. Item number 25, Commissioner's Report for Proactive Rental Inspections. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 26, Full Store License 615, Broadway. Motion to send legislation items 26 through 28. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 29 MMA contract extension motion to send the finance my councilmember Bowman I don't number 30 position allocation maintenance for senior resilient grants man motion is sent civil service second by councilmember Nowakowski Item number 31, animal shelter obtaining towed vehicles. Motion to approve item 31 and 32. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 33, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 33 and 34. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 35, notice of appointment, laborer two. Motion to send the civil service items 35 through 37. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 38, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adapt. Second by council member White. Miscellaneous item number 39, bicycle and pedestrian advisory board. Motion to send the CD. Second by council member Colombo. Item number 40, petitions regarding 172 Goodale. Motion to send legislation. Second by council member Fairlittle. Item number 41, determination of findings for 110 and 118 South Park. Motion to approve. Second by councilmember, no Koski. Where's the floor? Thank you. Mr. President I do want to thank my colleagues in the administration who have worked really hard on this and Corporation Council to Brennan Mahaffey to the mayor Have really worked side by side during this process for me to really work hard to preserve the cobblestone historic district The neglect of the properties that demonstrates no real realistic intention by the owner to preserve maintain or develop the subjected properties for over 15 years of his ownership and That the subject properties currently can constitute a blight on the cobblestone historic district Thus the subject properties must be saved and preserved for its historic contribution and value to the cobblestone historic district the acquisition of the property will relieve blight and enhance the economic development and improve the appearance and atmosphere of the cobblestone historic District and the city of Buffalo generally and otherwise serve the public interest. Thank you. Mr. President. Thank you Please record me in a negative i'm gonna nick councilman white in the negative thank you all right next item item number 42 full policy council of buffalo of eric county motion to send the cd saying my council member nowakowski item number 43 interfaith climate justice community response to resolution motion to receive and file second by council member bowman item number 44 supplemental information for 172 goodale motion to send the legislation second my council member wingo Item number 45, letter to Commissioner Amdor regarding 597 Elmwood Avenue. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Golombi. Item number 46, letter to Commissioner Grimaglia regarding Buffalo Police Sound Meters. Motion to send to Police Oversight. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. item number 47 secret negative declaration for 110 and 118 south park motion to adapt saying my council member fear little item number 48 invite corporation council to community development committee to discuss current lawsuit motion to send to civil service saying my council member white item number 49 letter to governor hoco calling for a comprehensive approach to impending evictions motion to send the cd saying my council member white Petitions, item number 50, special use 224 Elmwood. Motion to send to legislation City Planning Board items 50 through 52. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Submission list, civil service, item number 1, appoint fire captain. Motion is to receive and file items 1 through and including 10. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Finance, item number 11, certificate of necessity. Motion to approve items number 11, 12, and 13. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Community Development. What was the motion? It was to, what was 13? Did you, which committee was it in? Oh, Finance, I'm sorry. Finance, what was 13? Oh, all of them were approved. Thank you. Just need a click. Council Member Wyatt, item number 11 should be receive and file, not approve. Motion to resend it. motion to rescind yes the second right council member free a letter motion to receive and file second by council member for your letter community development item number 14 reported sales 750 and 752 broadway the motion is to deny motion is to deny a second by councilmember wingo the reason for the denial is in the elegant district when there are two lots being sold together they're usually as a designated developer the proposed purchaser came before us and doesn't even know if he's going what he's going to do with the property Nor does he know if they're going to be able to do anything with it, according to his testimony on the record, if they don't buy the building next door. And that's the type of sales that I don't think, well, in the Ellicott District, that we want to do. Or else people just come and buy up all the property and hold on to it forever and ever. So that's the reason for denial for the record. Thank you. Item number 15, create a designated lactation room in City Hall for nursing employees. Motion to receive and file 15 through and including 18. Second by the Majority Leader. Item number 19, call in on New York State to reintroduce an eviction moratorium for Pacific zip codes. Motion to table. Motion to table. Motion to send back. Or motion to send back. Second by Council Member White. Legislation item number 20, food store license 440 aka 442 Amherst Street. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Golombek, who I knew would want the floor on this one. Yeah, thank you. I've been working with D district community police officers and I'm waiting to get information from them. So I'm sorry, usually I try to approve or not these as quickly as possible. We're just waiting to get everything in order. And we're not sure whether it will be approved or not approved yet, but I just want to make sure all my ducks are in a row. So is that a warning, like, to folks don't start putting the store shelves in yet? Yes. Yeah. And clean up. Make sure it's cleaned up around there. All right, sir. Next item. Item number 21, supplemental information for 172 Goodell. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 22, special use 341 15th Street for retail. Motion to approve. Seconded by the Majority Leader, Rivera. Item number 23, special use 430 Cumberland for now owner-occupied. Motion to recommit. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item number 24, special use, 729 Ashland. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Wyatt. resolutions item number 53 ordinance amendment for chapter 131 on tobacco and hookah by invade motion to send the legislation items 53 and 54. second by council member bowman council member wyatt you have the floor thank you mr president and thank you to the administration in getting this done permits and inspections i know that myself and my colleagues have all spoke up about this issue because we have these smoke shops popping up everywhere in our district and as we attend to try to educate the community and keep young people from doing this we have more these smoke shops and I have one In particular right now on Main Street right across the street from a smoke shop And so this is very timely I'm looking forward to it aging so that we can put in a place So that we can make certain again that we can be responsible in addressing issues that address affect the quality of life many of the University Heights area are in Beside themselves because we have five smoke shops in a one-quarter mile radius. That's absolutely ridiculous, and it doesn't... Speak to us being concerned about the effects of smoking and hookahs and all those things. And I'm also glad that we've went even further in making certain that our deli stores don't have that paraphernalia in them. So, again, thank you to the administration and Commissioner Amder and her team, as well as the law department, in getting this put forth. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chair? I'm sorry. Council Member Bowman? Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to kind of second the comments of my colleagues. This is, you know... ordinance amendments derived from the feedback we're hearing directly from the community, right? Smoke shops popping up literally on almost every corner So this will give us an opportunity to give the community a voice and I'm also Happy to see the food store ordinance amendment especially Speaking to the paraphernalia. I have a lot of residents that speak and give feedback regarding the the paraphernalia on the front counter when they're standing there at the food store with their child and they're asking what that what that is so It's a happy to start seeing this moving forward. I'm looking forward to see an aging committee. Thank you Councilman skin Thank You council president not to be redundant I just want to take a moment to thank the Department of permits and inspections and and Karen and everyone in the law department for putting this together for us. We've all been kind of working on this. It impacts all of our districts, and so I want to thank everyone for working on it. And in addition to that, I had a very interesting conversation over the weekend with a... I'll be careful, a certain law enforcement agency who had some very good information when it comes to sticker shops and things of that nature that we can look forward to coming to us in the very near future as well. Great. I don't think I asked to be added to this. I will ask it now. well i've got one in front of me right now coming into the district we didn't have that many in the beginning now it seems like uh what you're saying is right but what i was laughing about you talk about the paraphernalia and maybe rossi councilmember wyatt um knows where i'm going it was a 20 something year old darius pridgin well maybe maybe we're like and rasheed wyatt who protested a store on fillmore and utica And the newspaper article said, drug paraphernalia on the front next to the candy. Because I went into the store, and they had bongs and all kinds of stuff right next to the Snickers. So we form a group of concerned citizens against violence, and we took a hit. We didn't hide the camera. They mic'd me up, and we go into the store. And then the news comes in. They didn't have a chance to move it. and all of this drug paraphernalia is next to candy. And Charlie Fisher, I think, was a council member then. And so the council got behind our effort to get rid of the drug paraphernalia. And I think then time goes on. You kind of forget about it. And I don't think there was an ordinance ever written. It was just kind of, this is disgusting. And to hear when you said it, it just triggered my 20-something year old self, and there's this article that we still have that was, I think, Buffalo News Challenger of Darius with hair and people walking around with signs literally around that store going, shut this place down, you know. So thank you to all of you who have been working on it. I'll just ride your coattail on this one. Thank you. Thanks, Dino. Item number 55, creating a partnership between the Buffalo Common Council and Buffalo State University. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golombak. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank all of my colleagues, especially Mr. Bowman, as well as staff. Dr. Cisse from Buffalo State College, who is a colleague of mine who I've not met, though, unfortunately. This was a longtime project that we had been working on. with the political science department at Buffalo State College to put together an internship program similar to what they do in Albany. They have a program where you would send young men, young women from the state university University College at Buffalo. I forgot exactly our exact name now, but it's university. Everybody's university now. And so they would send young men, young women to spend the semester in Albany for the entire semester. Ultimately, that was something that I really, really would have liked to have tried to see if we could have done here in Buffalo. But we're starting smaller with one course at a time. And you would have students that would come here and get college credit for internship, you know, with us. And there's a whole host of things that they could do. Because, you know, like in, as I always say, one size does not fit all. You might have a young man or a young woman that says, you know, I'm interested in development. Well, my district wouldn't have been someplace you would have wanted to intern up until the last year or two because there really wasn't major development going on in my district. So you would have looked to see, you know, one of the other offices. Maybe there's somebody that's more interested in finance or civil service. I think, you know, they might have been intrigued then by Councilmember Wyatt or whatever, you know, to sort of fit whatever it is that they're interested in. I think that this is a great step forward. I think it's a great way to connect us up with the local college, local university. That was in my district, it's now in I think Mr. Faroletto's district completely. But this took forever. I mean, you have the bureaucracy of city government, then you have the bureaucracy of then Buffalo State College. and then COVID hitting. And I mean, we were so close when COVID hit and it just put everything on the back burner. So I'm glad that this is finally moving forward. And I don't think that we're done yet. I think that this is something that we're putting together now that we will continue to work on in the future. And it may grow into something maybe where it's an entire semester, that somebody does 12 credit hours here and it expands into maybe the law department and public works. and other aspects of city government. But that remains to be seen in the future. But thank you to everybody, especially staff that worked on this as well. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. If it's okay, I'd like to be added to this resolution. As an alum of Buffalo State College, Dr. Cisse was my advisor, and we had even spoken on several occasions while I was there, going through my master's program as a council member on, you know, ensuring that we had some type of pathway. or vehicle for students to get more engaged in civic work and political science matters. So this is a phenomenal instrument that was drafted for us to use, and I'm hoping that this is something that can be done expeditiously and included in our budget if that's the case. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member Nook-Holstein. Thank you, Mr. President. As a former Buff State kid myself that took a college course to get credit, I was – I ended up going to an assembly member's office and earning full college credit and writing papers throughout the duration. It helped launch me to meet a guy named David Rivera, and now here I sit as a council member, so I really fully support this and would like to be added as a sponsor. All right. Well, I guess as a Buff State graduate, I want to be added too. I think it's too late. You already did all the work, but I still want to be added like everybody else. Councilmember Bowman. Thank you Mr. President. I just wanted to thank staff as well because this was a long process to get this going and I think it speaks to trying to retain some of our youth right and our students and our graduates and hopefully they stay in Buffalo and giving them a little experience in City Hall I think would be great so it was a pleasure to work with Councilmember Gowenbeck on this. Thank you. Councilmember White. Mr. Chair I would thank you for I would add myself, but since I have the University of Buffalo in my district, I won't. But I do want to hopefully duplicate this because I think that's a great idea to give our young people exposure. So I commend Council Member Golombek and Council Member Bowman for this and hopefully we're going to duplicate that with the University of Buffalo. Thank you. Like Councilmember Bowman, Councilmember Golombek, thank you for letting me do it, helping me work so hard on this. It's easy to be added at the end. So thank you for letting us add it because it is important. I agree with Councilmember Wingo and Nowakowski. All of us have been touched in some way by Buff State and benefited from it. So thank you, sir. All righty. Next item. Item number 56, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 57, call for long-term agreement with BMHA to permanently preserve affordability of Moraine Drive. Motion to adopt item 57 and 58. Second by Council Member Nowakowski, who I know will want the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, I replaced a historian on the council, and my colleague is a history professor at Buff State, so I have to indulge the history of Canal Side and Marine Drive and why this is very important. And I also just first want to thank the BMHA and the administration who have committed to 616 units to remain affordable. But why we need long-term protection is because we don't know if the future mayor or council member or authority leader will want to just see dollar signs in 20 years and as those original residents move on or deceased or are not in those buildings that their unit shoot right up to market rate and throughout the duration of Buffalo history it was the canal district and and as the canal became obsolete due to trains, it became abandoned and polluted and with that came poverty and that's where the city really forced a lot of their impoverished residents, especially Italian immigrants who were fleeing famine in the early 1900s, and they created the Dante Place projects and put them there. And then through urban renewal law, just eminent domain and cleared the whole area and then wanted to put something that they thought was visually better and they just put poor tenants there when nobody resided at the waterfront. So now that it's a regional destination, I'm going to make sure that as council member that we just don't say, oh, well, now this is where wealthy people live. Goodbye poor people. That's not going to happen on my watch. So I know that there's other areas where we can achieve 616 units to be preserved. And I think that we can do that through a plan unified development. or an agreement with the state of new york i would preferably like to use our zoning laws to ensure that because i do understand that when you get in an agreement with the state of new york it's about 20 years and again we just don't know who those elected officials will be there at that time or what their commitment will be so i think that this is a once in a generational impact and investment on our waterfront and we need to do what is right in writing um I hear that all the time when I get home, was that a verbal agreement or was that written? You know, will it hold up in court? So that's where I'm using my understanding of zoning laws to make sure that we can accomplish this and I know that we will together with the administration. And I want to thank you. I still own property on the waterfront. And I remember when we first bought, my neighbors, some of my neighbors, not all of my neighbors, a few of my neighbors who wanted Marine Drive to be market rate. I've always been against it, and I think that your move many people appreciate, not everybody, because some people would like to turn the waterfront into exclusively for wealthy people. And everybody deserves a chance or opportunity to live by the water. It's all of our water. It doesn't belong just to the wealthy. So thank you, because I know what that means. for you as far as some people who want Marine Drive gone, and they wanted it gone for a long time. So thank you for standing up for people. Thank you. Councilmember Golombet? Thank you, Mr. President. I want to I would like to compliment my colleague as well, because we've had similar issues. We're looking at a major development at the Schaefer Village housing development that is in the Riverside part of my district. And one of the concerns that residents had there was that they were gonna be displaced. And this was something that I told them that we would do everything that we could you know, so that that would not happen. I think there's 235 units there and that we would make sure that there would remain 235 units in perpetuity. And when I was meeting with some of the residents there and actually in Jasper Parish this past week, they brought up the resolution. And they said that, you know, well, we know we don't need it at Jasper Parish, but you're going to do that at Schaefer, aren't you? And I said, oh, absolutely. I said, we're not at that point yet, though. I don't even think we're close yet. And then the people at Jasper said, well, don't forget us. And I said, well, if pertinent, you know, absolutely. I think I have about 800 or 900 roughly BMHA units currently occupied in my district. I think I might be number one in the state. I'm not sure how many you have. have at Marine Drive, but I think North actually has the most. And I want to make sure that those people are protected as well. Thank you, sir. Right great good work Exciting item number 59 addressing concerns surrounding surrounding the upcoming Buffalo Emram auction and lawsuit motion to adapt and remainder to legislation second by councilmember Wyatt I just want to say First of all that the information that will be asked for corporation council, of course be an executive session. I'm not gonna on the record talk about the lawsuit and I just want to talk about the upcoming in rim although it's going I want to just be clear from the beginning that At least this one councilmember unless we readjust this process That and you pull my coat till you think you time you think I've gone too far I might not listen but I'll try so that in this in rim I people who have surplus funds are able to legally collect their surplus funds. I probably should stop there, but our home, for most of us, is one of our biggest investments. And some people fall on hard times. I'm not talking about the landlord who won't take care of their property. I'm talking about people who fall in hard places, and it happens in life. I don't believe that the government should keep their money. We should be going through the process. So if this interim is not different from the previous interim, I will not support it. And I don't know if the interim has to come back to us. The initial. The initial. So I'm being clear that I will vote no if we are going by the same process. And then I do want to update an executive session of where the lawsuit is. Okay? All right. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. We had a lot of conversation about this process, and I'm going by what I heard on investigative posts last night. that the money was spent. I hope that money hasn't been spent because I think we had this conversation in finance about the surplus and how it's going to be used and we were told things by the previous corporation council. And that's unfortunate because I think most of us said we want to make sure those residents are made whole and getting their money. So for this not to be able to happen after we had A lot of conversation. It wasn't just something we just said, oh, we agreed to. It was a lot of conversation. And if that has happened, that this money has been spent, shame on us. And so, but it's going again from the reports that we were given that was said on investigative posts. It's not, I don't know for a fact, but that's what they stated. And so I know your resolution is asking for the information on that. So I hope we get the information that it hasn't been because it shouldn't be touched until we resolve the issue. And I agree with you and I want to be added to this. We should not do a single thing unless we can ensure that those who have fallen on tough times are made whole or given their money back at least. Thank you. And I'll say this on the investigative post story since it is public. The Reporter said that to me. I don't have proof of that and that's why we put it in the resolution to ask. I did inquire from administration, from a person of the administration. They were under the impression it was encumbered. I still don't have any proof. We need the proof. Where is the money? Because personally, until I have assurance, one council member, that this whole process is switched, I just I'll vote against any in room process councilmember of here. Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, and I agree with you If it's the same process Then I will vote against it last year we were told what the intent was and the Intent was to make people whole that the surplus fund would go to the person or the people Who are entitled to it? Based on that representation, I supported what the administration wanted to do. And that's coming from the corporation council, our previous corporation council. And I agree. You take somebody's property who's fallen on hard times, and I'm not talking about an LLC or out-of-town corporation who are just speculators and sitting on properties. I'm talking about an elderly person. somebody that lives below the poverty level whose properties are being taken away from them. And then after they pay off the liens and everything they owe to the city, now the city says... We have to keep it because it's a gift of public funds. Well, you should have told us that back when we asked those questions. We were led to believe that, yes, the intent was to make people whole. So unless we change that, I will be voting against the next interim. So thank you very much, and I hope that we can go back. And it's all part of the record. I'm not misrepresenting anything. Just go back and look at the videos. of the conversations that were held here in council chamber between this council and our corporation council and that will prove exactly what we're seeing thank you very much thank you councilmember fairloom as far as i'm aware every foreclosure auction had the same procedures and when the property was sold the surplus funds would pay off the other any liens taxes and the homeowner could would apply and automatically get the money they are entitled to the money it's their property they have they put years of equity into it that's it I am also aware that the only time we've there's an issue has come up is after the last in rem auction when the city took title from the person before the auction. And from what I read, and I know we haven't talked about it yet, anyone who tried to get the surplus funds has not been able to get their money. And I think that's wrong. I think we should do everything we can to make those people whole. The city took their property and isn't giving them money. That's absolutely wrong and needs to be fixed immediately. Period. councilmember what mr chair i thought that this was in finance when we had the first conversation but now it's going to ledge wherever it's going it's fine but i thought the first conversation i thought it was in lead being financed because i know that the law center was involved in trying to craft some new legislation i think it was thought better to go to ledge because it's talking about law okay um and lawsuits okay no problem thank you Anything else? All right. So I think we made it plain that at least a few, and probably more, would probably not vote for an interim process if it remains the same. All right. next item item number 60 request dpw to examine the feasibility of providing child care for city hall motion to adapt the remainder to cd second by president pro temp stanley who has the floor thank you council president i want my i want to thank my colleagues for adopting this the city buff in the city buffa we continue to see people retire and we have to replace them with new talent and in order attract and retain uh talent in the future we have to be able to do everything we can offer everything we can to attract that talent and retain it in order to position the city of buffalo to be successful moving forward this is asking the city the department of public works to take a look at the building see if we could create a space for in in building child care for Residents of the city of Buffalo. This is a resolution. I filed a handful of years back kind of didn't go anywhere But I'd really like to take another look at that and see if we can provide this is some sort of benefit to potential Employees in the future. Amen glad I don't have anymore So I wouldn't want to be putting them in a child care seat bringing them to work And that's a good resolution though, and you're totally right. Can you have me today? Thank you for all you young people I Next item. Item number 61, fee waiver for University United Festival and Parade. Motion to approve item 61. Second by Councilmember Rasheed N.C. Wyatt. N.C. You lost your announcements? I did. The clerk has lost her announcements. She's going to look for them. Is there any announcements for your districts? A breakfast. Oh, okay. Councilmember Wingo. We have a breakfast on Saturday. The Madison District Town Hall breakfast is Saturday again, this Saturday, March the 11th at 9 o'clock at the Delavan Writers Center, 877 East Delavan. Last month was a huge turnout. We have a great turnout every month. But I guess because of the recent events, we're having bigger turnouts because I guess people are interested in what's going to happen. So we're encouraging everyone to come out, get good information, have good conversation. I know one of the topics of the discussion again will be ShotSpotter. So please come out, share your thoughts. We do need to move forward on a lot of things in Madison District. So please come out and share. Thank you. All right, I think we have an item. I'm going to get to yours, and did you find your announcement? I did not. Then I got one item to revisit. I think it's 48, just making sure it went to the right one. All right, Council Member White, then we'll come to the clerk. uh... just one invite the residents of the lovejoy in university districts to our annual license renewal meeting uh... we taking place at nine nine five kensington on tuesday and thursday from five thirty seven so please if you have a delhi store that you have issue with or give delhi store if you want to commend on for their cleanup or their support the community please come to this meeting this is your opportunity for making decision to deny or approve a license, you have an opportunity to weigh in. So, again, tonight, 995 Kensington from 530 to 7, University District and Lovejoy District License Renewal Meeting. Thank you. All right. Announcement of committee meetings. Civil service is Tuesday, March 14, 2023 at 945. Following civil service will be financed at 10 a.m. Tuesday, March 14, 2023 at 945. 10 a.m committee of community development is tuesday march 14 23 at 1 p.m and legislation is at 2 p.m tuesday march 14 2023. all right we need to revisit item 48 did that go to the wrong committee in the description it says to community development but it's marked civil service I thought he mentioned civil service. I thought he said civil service. Is that where you wanted to go? Yeah. Oh, okay. Because it says invite Corporation Council to community development. Civil service. All right. Thank you. No reason to revisit. Motion? Second by Council Member Fialetto.