I stand for the pledge of congratulations to the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, one God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. We have a guest chaplain today, Father Art Ward, born and raised in western New York, graduated from the University of Buffalo, then from Virginia Seminary. He has been the pastor of St. Bartholomew's Anglican Church in the town of Tonawanda for 24 years, and we are pleased to have you. Come on down. We'll get you a little mic on, and a mic on, and a mic on. Thank you. So what a privilege it is to be here with all of you. I know I might be from the town of Tonawanda, but what happens in the city of Buffalo is very important, and we appreciate the good work that the Common Council is doing. So let us ask the Lord for his blessing and guidance today. Let us pray. Heavenly Father and Almighty God, we thank you for another day you've given us. We thank you for this city. and the blessings that we have as members of this community. And I thank you for the Common Council, for each representative here. We pray that your Holy Spirit would continue to protect them and their families. We pray that your Holy Spirit would give them wisdom and discernment and that we would all learn to be good stewards of everything you've given us. We also pray, Father, that we would reflect true love, which was embodied by your son Jesus, who told us that if we want to be great in your kingdom, we must learn to be servant of all. We pray that your Holy Spirit would cultivate in each of us a servant attitude, a selflessness that looks towards the needs of those around us, an attitude and a spirit that is forgiving, but yet at the same time understands that tough love means accountability. So I pray that as we seek to serve others, that we would keep all of these things in mind. May your hand of blessing continue to be on this council, and may you accomplish your goodwill in all of our lives. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Council members, memorials. Council members, come on up. Thank you, Mr. President. A friend of mine's mom from South Buffalo passed away, Mary Coakley, the mother of Dennis Coakley. Dennis is a schoolteacher with the Diocese of Buffalo. He's at Narden Academy, or Narden High School, teaching there. His mother passed away last week after a very, very long battle. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her faith friends. Councilmember Fontana. I have a story for the council today. It's a portrait of a businesswoman from Lovejoy, Olga Fosco. Olga was born in 1920. In 1940, Olga and her husband opened up Fosco's restaurant on William and Ben's Avenue. In 1962, her husband passed away early in life, but Olga persevered, raising five children, operating that restaurant and bar till 2012. 72 years in business at the same location, Olga Fosco raised a family and persevered through a lot of triumphs and a lot of tributes. So today we honor Olga. She passed away at the age of 98. And what a great woman. When businesses would open in Lovejoy, she'd come and visit them and wish them good luck, bring them a little something special and leave her phone number. She left the phone number because if they lost track of something or if they needed something, call me. I have it at the restaurant for you. That's the kind of businesswoman she was, and we honor Olga's 72 years in business, but more importantly, her 98 years of life here on Earth. Any others? Yes. We remember those in Alabama, although it's not Buffalo, who have lost their lives. I believe we're at number 23 right now, 23 persons. Whenever there's a tragedy in our country, we remember those. And for those who may have given their life for our country's freedom or another country's freedom since we have met, we honor them even if we do not know their names. Let's pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. Today we have a special presentation by Councilmember Mrs. Wingo Sr. Thank you Mr. President, Council President Darius Bridgen. I would like to call down Sahih Chowdhury who serves as the Mastin District Community Liaison to our Ben Lodesh community. I grew up in the Mastin District, been there my entire life and Central Park, where I grew up, has changed dramatically, not just with the development that's been happening, but the demographic has also changed, and a lot of the cultures have changed. We have had an influx of families from the Bangladesh community who have joined us in the Mastin District, and today we are joined by several representatives from the various families who currently live in Mastin District. But today we want to ensure that we are celebrating something that is very special and near and dear to them. That is the Mother Language Day. Mother Language Day. It is a worldwide annual observance held on February 21st to promote awareness of linguistic and cultural diversity and to promote multilinguism. Multilinguism. You all know what I'm trying to say. It was first announced by the UNESCO on the 17th of November in 1999, which is the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization. It was formally recognized by the United Nations General Assembly in a resolution established in 2008 as the International Year of Languages. The idea to celebrate International Mother Language Day was the initiative of Bangladesh. And Bangladesh, on the 21st of February, is the anniversary of the day when the Bangladeshis fought for recognition of the Bangla language. February 21st is a day of historic significance and reverence for the Bangladeshi community as a tribute to the language movement that eventually led the Bengali nationalist movement that eventually culminated in the Declaration of Independence from Pakistan in 1971. I'm going to have at this time Our community liaison, Sahi Chaudhary, read the first verse in their native language, their Bangla song. Thank you, customer. I'm going to read the Bangla script in Bangla language. I'm bleeding outside. It's February 21st. What can I say? The army of the 100 children is on the rise in February. What can I say? I'm going to translate in English also. My brothers, Blaspeder, 21st February. Can I forget the 21st of February, incarnated by the love of my brother, the 21st of February, built by the tears of a hundred mothers, rob of their sons. Can I ever forget it? Thank you all. Languages are the most important instrument and most powerful instruments of preserving and developing our tangible and intangible heritage. All moves to promote the dissemination of mother tongue will serve not only to encourage linguistic diversity and multilingual education, but also to develop fuller awareness of linguistic and cultural traditions throughout the world and to inspire solidarity based on understanding, tolerance, and dialogue. Now I have had the pleasure of attending several of the Bengali community's events over the summer and in the fall and the spring. They have taught me how to say, Ami Bangladeshi! You're all supposed to clap at that part. I said it right. So we're proud that they are here. And one of the initiatives in the Madison District was to ensure that all of the immigrants and all of the communities that come into our community, that they feel like this is home. We want them not to feel like strangers, but we want them to feel a part of the community and take ownership of the community so that we can live shoulder to shoulder, side by side, one with the other as brothers and sisters here on earth in the city of Buffalo. So if we could all just give a round of applause to the Bangladesh community for acknowledging Mother Language Day. So I'm going to ask my brothers to come down at this time to receive the plaque from the Mastin District Office. Ask them in their language. Didn't they teach you that? Yeah, I second that. So, because of the significance of this occasion, and how important it is for our brothers and sisters, I won't read the entire proclamation, but I will read the therefore, which says, I hereby proclaim that February 21st is International Mother Language Day in the city of Buffalo and recognize the Bangladesh Society of Buffalo as leaders in the advocacy of the Bangladeshi community in the city of Buffalo. Thank you. Thank you. You have to let me know when you have a need for food. Oh, yeah, there's always an event and there's a lot of food. Council Member Franczak wanted to say something about... always putting down the east side in general and in Broadway Fillmore in particular. I'm not as familiar with the Bangladesh Bengali community in Mastin District, but I certainly am in Broadway Fillmore, which they have come and revived so much of that community. They're buying homes, moving in homes, fixing the homes beautifully so they don't have to be demolished. The families are moving in. They're opening businesses. It reminds me when I was a kid, you actually had businesses, not boarded up buildings. Mr. Golombek mentioned food. There's a ton of brand new restaurants on Genesee, just a little bit outside of Broadway, on Broadway several new restaurants, on William Street, and there's some I'm not even thinking about. Hardware stores with Mr. Ramen. Antica and drug stores real bona fide businesses and so you know all these negative talk about the east side the Bangladesh Bengali community they didn't think was bad neighborhood they came in and they are settling there and read right now they're probably the largest influx ethnic group in that community in that neighborhood so I applaud what mr. Wingo has done here today and And the Bengali community is a great addition to making Buffalo great. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Pranzak. I think that was very kind. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Pranzak. Thank you, Mr. President. If we could just indulge our family for one more second, we will ask that one of the elders speak. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. And thank you, our councilmen and ladies and gentlemen. It's my ample opportunity here to stand in front of all of you and in this August gathering to say something about our Mother's Language Day. On 21st February in 1952, after the independence of Pakistan, Western East Pakistan, then there was a declaration came from the government, central government, that Urdu will be the only state language of Pakistan. At that time, in the Dijan period, we were the 56% of the total population of Pakistan. And in front row, the students of the University of Dhaka, they came out and protested vehemently that decision from the Pakistan government that Urdu cannot be only state language of Pakistan. And from that day, Actually it started in 1948, but in 1952, there were 144 rules from the government, and the government suited the students. Four students were still Kalam, Barkat, Dvig, Kapar. And from that day, the Sikhs took independence of Bhakti, based on language. Ultimately, in different stages, we had to fight, we had to also stand by seriously to protect our language and our culture and our traditions. And finally, in 1971, we won the independence on 16 December. It was declared in 1971 on 26 March, and the nine-month war continued. I myself participated in the liberation war. and in 15 December our nation emerged as Bangladesh. We feel really amazed and we, I don't have any proper words or language to say in front of all of you how much we are happy from our community. We come, we have been coming since about a decade to this city and we are exploring the city and we are building our ways in this eastern side of Pakalo. And it was almost a ruined type of situation there in the whole vicinity. Now Bangladeshis are coming, they are all law-abiding by citizen, and we would like to the authority to continue and acknowledge us and celebrate this day every year on 21st of February as the International Motherland Day. Thank you very much and thank you all for coming here. Very good. Thank you all. And if you want to hang around for the council meeting, you're very welcome to. But if you really just want to go home, you can also do that now. Thank you for being here. Very good. Let the record reflect that the role has been taken visibly and we will be excusing in the meeting. Council Member Ferraletto. on a motion by mr revere second by mrs scanlon the minutes of the stadium meeting held on february 19th 2019 are approved you have several late files in front of you are there any objections to the late files hearing no objections to late files we'll hear the entire agenda that is before us not taking away your right to object to the late file if you have not had a chance or to pause this meeting if you have not had a chance to view the late file Majority leader yes motion to take I knows 54 55 and 61 out of order second by councilman forensic item 54 discharge item 17 dash 1406 from legislation committee motion to adopt items 5455 and 61 second by customer Fontana From the top item 1 a point to citizen salary review Commission motion to receive and follow items 1 through 8 second by council Through 9. Through 9. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 10, 358, 360, Fosier on. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Item 11, local landmark 1029 West Avenue. Motion to send the legislation. second by council member Montana item 12 report of homestead 182 Mulberry motion to send the CD items 12 and 13 saying my council member Wyatt and 14 report of sale 21 Garner motion to approve second by president pro temp Scanlon I don't Item 15, report of sale, 65, Grape. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 16, report of sale, 884, Virginia. Motion to approve items 16 and 17. Seconded by Council Member Golombic. Item 18, SEQR negative declaration 799-864-872, Seneca Street. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 19, cash flow report. Motion to send finance. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 20, Resignation Controller. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Winkle. Item 21, 2018-2019 Second Quarter Gap Sheets Response. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Councilmember DeLumbeck. Item 22, Agreement, Amendment, Leroy, Engineers. Motion to approve Items 22 through 32. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 33, Appoint Fire Lieutenants. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 34, Contract City of Buffalo and Apollo dismantling. Items 34 through 36 are approved. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 37, Food Store License 983, Tonawanda. Motion to send the legislation. Second by President Proof Tim Scanlon. Item 38, Food Store License 163, West Ferry. Motion to approve items 38 and 39. and my council member fontana 140 property property managers abs enterprise motion to send the legislation second my council member wyatt and 41 second quarter gap sheet 2018 2019 motion to send finance second my council member fontana 942 New York State Government Relations Services Contract. Motion to approve items 42 and 43. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 44, items returned to the City Clerk by Mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 44 through 47. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 48, notice of appointments to temporary provisional permit. Motion to send civil service second my councilmember Golomba miscellaneous items item 49 pothole concerns in fruit belt neighborhood motion to send the CD It's been my council member wing go and 50 interest in serving on BMHA task force motion to receive and file It's been my councilmember Wyatt iron 51 damage at 46 Edna place motion to send the claims Look at my council member wing go item 51 a Tim Hortons at Medela's market motion to send the CD Second by Councilmember Wyatt. On this item, usually a council doesn't get involved in asking a franchisee why they don't want to come to a neighborhood. In this instance, it's a little different in that we have a businessman who built a market working with a representative, allegedly from Tim Horton, builds a million-dollar market on Jefferson and Broadway to the specs that were actually requested and was actually visited by representatives, allegedly from the company. And then the company decides to build at another location and then pulls out of this location. The reason it's a concern is because, you know, I think there's so many people in the Buffalo who enjoy and who spend their money there. And so this is a request to ask them because it doesn't seem as if, you know, the business owner I think should have probably did a little bit more on his end legally, but that's not my call. At the end of the day, we'd just like to make sure that this establishment knows that they're welcome all over the city of Buffalo. And so I'm hoping and praying, and we've talked to the owners. I guess this is why I'm a little – I put in the letter. Tim Hortons did show up at a meeting. for a Tim Horton on William in which the people were totally against a driveway, totally against the drive. They wanted Tim Horton, didn't want the driveway. They have this guy build a location or add, allegedly, I'll keep using that word so my attorney doesn't have to represent me, allegedly build a drive-through, build the place for them, and then... make a decision after deciding to open a couple blocks away that they didn't want to go there. So we just want to know why and ensure, Tim Horton, that the entire city of Buffalo is open for business, not just one part, the entire city. Councilman Frenzel? Yes, thank you. I drive by that location every day going home from work, driving east from the Fillmore District, as you know. My garage is on Wilson Street, so I drive by and I've been watching the progress of the Mandela Market. I said, well, that's good. There are gas pumps and everything else. And so I didn't know there was going to be a – it should have been a Tim Horton. You don't think that it's because they don't – there's some bias against the neighborhood or something? Or is Tim Horton's – do they not want to go there? Well, they notified them this week, last week, that they have decided not to after they met with the community. Okay. about the other one on William, and they promised the community they would go back, they would look at it. That's why I want them here before us, because there's a problem. I don't know of anybody who would spend a couple million dollars and not have that assurance, or assurance. And so we just want to know. There's heavy traffic volume there. And I see the heavy traffic volume every day, so I guess it doesn't, it doesn't seem to add up and it doesn't i mean number one you can't even say the distance because you got one on main street a couple blocks from the one they just put in or want to put in on william in the african-american heritage corridor um and so the community over there was very very plain with tim hortons that if you're going to do it over here you already Someone made a commitment, I guess a franchisee. They work through franchisees, but I don't want to make an assumption. I want them to be able to explain it so that no one is accusing them of something that we don't know. But I agree. Councilman Fontana? It's funny to see the new TV reporters look at the word punchki on the script and try to read it without knowing what it is. And it's interesting that we're talking about donuts on punchki day today. Now, Tim Hortons can't make a good punchki. They can't do it. They just don't do it. You said they can't. No, they can't. They can't. So you might want to get... Donut craze, you might want to get someone else if they won't do it because there are other operators out there. But you know, the funny thing is this, I've talked to business people over the years. If they get a bad taste in their mouth on one project, sometimes they smear that brush over everything they're gonna do. I talked to a major food broker in western New York, who I asked him, why do you only have one store in the city? And they said it was such a pain in the neck to get that store open, we'll never come back to Buffalo again. So, these conversations, like you said, Mr. President, are excellent to have with the company because we need to assure these companies that you might have an issue with one block, one street, one concern, because it's a different area, don't forget. William Street? William Street? This one on Jefferson is pretty much wide open on Broadway right there. It's nice nice location You got a lot of on-site storage of cars, which you need the gentleman planned that driveway out perfectly So hopefully they do come but I hope they're not painting that same brush over the whole city now I'm getting a bad image of the city because when they came to me to open up two new Tim Hortons in my district My only concern was that they don't close the one that was in Lovejoy I said you're not gonna open on Clinton and close the one on Lovejoy and Their exact words were, we don't close Tim Hortons, we just open them. So that was good. Let me go from there. Maybe some of your influence will help on this one. If it's to the Faza Poonchki, it won't. I almost bought some, but I thought, Coach, you brought some before, so I didn't send anybody. Dave and Joe get them. Or Joe. Oh, you have some in your office? All right, I'll come up. All right. All right. Thank you. Next item. Petitions, item 52, special use permit 1359 Jefferson. Oh, sorry, page 5. There you go. The motion is to send to legislation items 52 and 53. And city planning board. And city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Committee, civil service, item one, appoint firefighters. Motion to approve items one, two, and three. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Finance Committee, item four, bond resolution, Buffalo and Erie County Naval and Military Park. Okay, this item came out of recommendation, but there's a proper motion now on the floor to approve. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Item 5, report of bids, police and fire headquarters at Dillon Courthouse. I just saw Dillon at the county hall this morning. 5 and 6, motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item 7, changes to parking rate, locations in downtown Buffalo. 7 through and including 12, motion to receive and file. Okay. i thought i missed item when i saw parking rates i was starting to start to sweat like i missed something that's receiving power all right amen father second by council member wingo community development committee item 13 report of sales 74 franklin motion to approve items 13 and 14. second by councilman project 150. oh i'm sorry councilman franzak you have the floor Sorry, thank you. If we could look at item 13, 74 Franklin, the police. Yep. Motion is to revisit item what number? 13. 13, seconded by Councilman McGlumby. This will be forced. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've had some deliberation on this, including in caucus. And I think overall, I had a meeting today with Mr. Rivera, and we think this is a move in the right direction. And also, you know, the perfect... cannot be the enemy of the good because we could demand deeper considerations for affordable housing there. For example, this building was assessed for about 4.4 million in change, and we sold for 3 million, but it's a cash deal. But as Mr. Rivera pointed out in our meeting, the 485A program is we've opted into it. So they'd be foolish not to go for that when they get a 12-year tax break. I mean, why wouldn't they do that? So this body, I guess you could look at it as tantamount to $1.2 million tax break, but What this body did was adopt a resolution asking that there be provision for inclusionary zoning because this is the public building that we're selling. And Mr. Mahaffey consequently came to the caucus and said that there would be, based on federal HUD statistics for the two counties of Niagara and Erie, and there would be a deed covenant in there saying they would have to... use those numbers which is 80% of median family income. So, you know, we pointed out that in the City of Buffalo it was slightly lower numbers, in other words, perhaps there should have been 60% of the area median, but this was a negotiated decision. Mr. Mahaffey then went back to Mr. Dermot and asked him that. He said he'd be willing to look at it. in the future to see if it's feasible. Now that doesn't mean he's going to do it because this is the deal that's going in. And I think it's the, it's a good deal. It's not a perfect deal. I think we can do better in the future, but this is unprecedented because we had never done this before. It's not like the Operation Push school that they did where it was 60% of median because it was all government subsidies, all different levels of state and federal subsidy, city subsidy. This is pretty much a cash deal. So a single individual downtown with the 80% of the median income would probably pay around $1,000. I would have been more comfortable with around $700, but... you know, it is what it is, and a family would be about under $1,500. That all sounds like a lot to me because, you know, I've lived most of my life on the east side where, I pointed out at a meeting with Mr. Mahaffey and his staff that I was paying, before I bought my house I was paying $75 a month, but I mean that was back in the day. So we see how there's been great appreciation here in the city of Buffalo. But nevertheless, according to federal stats, that lower rent is for a family of four would be 80% of the area median income for affordable housing. But if somebody came to us with just a straight subsidy deal, then it would be a lot deeper. So Mr. Rivera and I are cognizant of these realities. We decided that it's prudent to move forward and then just be very mindful whenever these matters come before us. At least Mr. DeMauro was open to this. He agreed to it. And he's going to take another look back to see if he can expand that in the future. Thank you. Councilman Riviere Thank you very much. Mr. President. I want to commend council member forensic for Initiating this and this is something that this common council not only in this particular project has looked to include Affordable housing but in different projects throughout the whole city of Buffalo and it was interesting yesterday in caucus while Brenda Mahaffey was there we were talking about a straightforward cash deal with where the developer saw the ability to include affordable housing without layers and layers and layers of incentives and inducements. And if they can do it without layers and layers of incentive inducements, I think other people can do it as well. And we're also talking about those developers that do get layers and layers of public subsidies that there should be a public benefit. I think the city of Buffalo, anytime it deals with its assets, should look for a public benefit. And I think this is a good example, and I hope going forward, wherever the city is selling assets to a developer, that there'll be some form of public benefit. public benefit especially if there's layers of benefits tax write-offs 485 a tax credit state tax whatever benefits they can receive there should be some benefit to the community I agree you know the this is a starting point at 80 and he wasn't forced to do it he negotiated to to do this the there is still an opportunity for this for it to go lower than 80. You know, as president of the Common Council, I sit on several bodies, organizations and quasi-governments that, whether it's ECIDA or others, that have the ability, if he were to come before it, to even possibly bring that down lower. And I can tell you right now, I would be one, a yes vote all day to have diverse downtown and I'm talking about that as far as an income and in other ways I think we have to be ashamed to say that and this is one way to do it and thank you for the resolution but I also thank the developer for having the foresight and digging in there finding out how to do it how to make it work and not just him I've said it before you know over in the Miller the site I developer came and said, you know what, we've been hearing you guys beat this drum about affordable housing and mixing in some affordable housing, and we're going to do it. Now, they also, I believe, are coming for some 45A and other things. To me, I have no problem with that, that then we are able to build a Buffalo. that we do have market rate, but we have pockets where people can be around other people who may be in market rate housing. Someone said to me one day, well, you know, not going to make that much difference. I mean, if we end up with 400 more apartments, well, That does make a difference over the long run. But as we've discussed before, one size does not fit all. It just does not. But having the discussion now and sooner or later getting to some type of policy, but I don't believe the policy will be, for me, a one size fits all. It has to be looked at, but we've got to move forward on it. Thank you for the resolution and the sale, hopefully. Thank you. Everything will go right next item item 15 problems with snow removal in Buffalo motion to receive in file second by councilman Fontana 16 open government pledge I Mr. President, this item came in front of us without recommendation. I've talked to a couple of my colleagues that had some issues with it, and I believe that if we make one change on it rather than, well, item number five in this resolution calls for us to put information online that is currently in the clerk's office. What I would like to see is that changed too, and I will read this into the minutes. Item number five, as a local government with a population of over 200,000, we support the voluntary posting of the required annual financial disclosure forms of our elected officials online for the public to see, which state elected officials do. For local governments with a population under 200,000, we support the completion of an annual financial disclosure form and the voluntary posting of the completed form on the government website for the public to see. So basically what it would do is it would take what we've already... uh... have in front of us i believe on file in the clerk's office and it would give us the opportunity to have a section on the uh... city website where we would be able to post it online uh... nobody would be forced to do that uh... but it would be we would be able to do that and what this would also do it is basically ask the MIS department to have a spot on our uh... city website where we would be able to post it all right the court means the negative the court council member franzek in the negative And again, it's voluntary. Thank you for changing that because some people may not want that to be public and I agree. All right. Anybody else in the negative? All right. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Oh, motion to approve? Yes, the motion is to approve as amended. Motion to approve as amended. Second, Stan. Thank you. Thank you. Next item. Item 17, report of sale, 86 Adams. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 18, equity and energy utility funding. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Legislation Committee, item 19, report of sale, 541 Fillmore. Motion to recommit. Second by councilmember Wingo. I'm 20 contract see a buffalo and Gator down of West New York for demo 497 Southside if there are no objections motion to approve items 2021 and 22 second by council members and Lynn item 23 special use 503 Delaware motion to approve with conditions second by council member scale item 24 zoning map amendment and 819 799 Seneca 111 105 hydraulic 742 746 764 Carroll if there are no objections motion to approve items 24 and 25 second by council member Fontana item 26 trailblazing sign for Irene Galt motion to recommit second by councilman Wingo and can council staff contact whoever put this in make sure they hear the committee Next slide. 127 Trailblazing Sign honoring CWA 1133. Motion to approve? Seconded by Council Member Stanley. Who has the floor? Thank you, Council President. For the last 25 years, CWA Local 1133 has successfully advocated for fair wages, adequate benefits, safe working conditions, among a host of other issues that have faced the 2,500 members they represent throughout the Western New York healthcare industry. This is an incredible organization who are consistently looking out for the men and women who look out for us and our loved ones when we are at times at our most vulnerable. For their incredible dedication to their members and for their incredible successes, we felt it was appropriate to erect and install a trailblazing sign on the 800 block of Elk Street where their offices are located. We have representatives from CWA Local 1133 here today. I want to congratulate them on their amazing 25 years that they've had. And personally, I want to thank them and thank their members for, from someone personally who has had the lives of loved ones positively impacted by their members. I want to thank them for that. So I congratulate them on 25 amazing years, and I thank them for their service. This would have been the second presentation. Thank you. They gave you a, give them a buffalo pen or something. My goodness, treat them nice. Thank you for being here. Thanks, Ida. Item 28, special use permit 2637 Maine. Motion to recommit. Second by, who is this, Council Member Wingo, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We are looking at this item to go back to committee because we have discovered after notification of approval to the community that there is a street directly behind the proposed hookah lounge that was not informed, allegedly not informed. So what we want to do is have them allegedly, we want them to go back to the community and ensure that everyone is aware that this establishment will be there and and ensure that they have everyone's approval on both sides of Main Street. So that's why we're rescinding our motion to approve, but sending it back to committee so that everyone can be heard. And once those sentiments come in, we'll read those into the record. They should come in through letter. And if someone should come in for a hearing, we'll hear their concerns at that time. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Smart move. Next item. Item 29, food store license 1479 East Delavan. Okay. Thanks, Nate. 29? Yes, this has been bouncing around the Lovejoy District, boy, since I've been 40. I have not approved this thing in many years. And I told the gentleman, look, this is your last year to get this thing right. So I said, do you want to do it or not? He says, no. Well, I want to have pop chips and blunts. I said, I don't need any more pop chips and blunts than he's telling Avidu. I don't need it. So he's agreed now to join the Healthy Food Corner Store Initiative. He's agreed now to carry fresh produce. He's also agreed in writing that I have signed on my desk no sale of alcohol, beer, or tobacco products in the store. So if he wants to run a good store, not a bodega, but if he wants to run a really nice store on the business strip, which he tells me he does, we're going to give him a chance. So this is his march into business this March. We're going to have a motion to approve with those conditions that I wrote right into the record. But I also have a written sheet of paper that he signed that he will not sell those items in the store. So this is a good thing. No blunts, no tobacco products, no beer, no alcohol. He's going to join the healthy food store initiative. You submit it to the clerk's office? Yes, I'll get it to them. It's on my desk. I forgot to bring it down to the chambers. But he signed it. I had him sign the form. He produced the form. He wasn't coerced. But really don't need pop chips and blunts anymore in the business strip. We're really trying to have stores become a healthy center because food deserts are a real thing. Food stores dollar stores are causing problems with the community with all the saturated fats and the high fructose corn syrup These kids are eating they look like little Remuses walking around the streets of Buffalo. We can't have that anymore We have to have healthy food options and this is one way to help do it All right, so no getting high and then eating pop chips and Blunts okay now I'm sorry one of these was just yeah now which one should I do Dave the first one was the so yeah I don't think that's the approved one that the first one was just showing how it's been before us the history of it so that that item number if staff could check it looks like item 17-14 06 yeah was the just the information So the next one looks like the approval with the conditions. 30 is the latest in condition? To make sure we're correct on that. Let's see. Yep, it's 30 according to corporation. 30, okay. So receive and file then 29 and approve 30 with conditions. All right, the motion is receive and file 29, second by Councilmember Franczak, and to approve 30 with the conditions as stated by the councilmember that will be submitted in writing. No pop chips and blunts. Second by Council Member Rivera. Right? Yes, sir. We did it right? I guess he gets the next item. Resolution item 56, FEMA and DEC flood insurance maps. Motion to adopt items 54 and 55. Oh, we did. We did though. We did. Oh, excuse me. Item 54, we did. We did. Okay, my mic is having problems. So I got to hold the mic like church on Sunday morning What was the what was the item? Around 56 the FEMA and PEC flooding all right, so we're you already called the most motion to adopt the resolve remaining to ledge and DPW comes remember a second by council member friends at who has a floor yes, thank you Mr. Chairman this is like in the uh yogi barrett deja vu all over again department because uh nine years ago in 2010 um fema the federal emergency management agency went to the city after doing certain measuring to decide to put a large number of neighborhoods into a floodplain 100-year floodplain which would have required expensive flood insurance to be purchased that gets higher the premiums get higher the More you're closer to a potential flood so this body at that time sprang into auction mister into action Mr. Fontana was here too and fought it we did resolutions by we I mean, Mr. Fontana myself and Mr Kerns at the time from the South District Engaging the state delegation the federal delegation and to fight to get neighborhoods out of this floodplain due to inadequate technology that was used to measure these numbers and they were off the numbers I won't go into all that but at that time there were 1,145 properties on this list 96 were removed at that time with new readings and so after we had quite a few this also affected the suburbs but we're concerned about the city of Buffalo and my My concern at the time and also now is that and now we are more reviving in the city of Buffalo particularly around the waterfront with more business apartments and Development homeowners and new businesses What is this they want us to? pass a local law by June 7th of this year. They also wanted to have us have our local law ready by March 9th, even though the letter was written in January, and this is just before us today. Or last week was their letter, and so this is the resolution today, so that's ridiculous, obviously. So they say if we don't do this, we would be suspended from the so-called National Flood Insurance Program, NFIP as they call it. um i looked at the map that they showed because they didn't even provide the map originally we had to drill down and ms gordon helped contact them and public works is going to be involved and they're going to do a feed today with the council but we're working on a meeting next week for these principles to come in and explain what this is and the way it worked before is that if you are a homeowner or a business, you did not have to purchase flood insurance, but if you wanted to buy a property, you'd have to buy it in that area. Or if you wanted to sell your property, you'd have to buy it, or get a mortgage. If you had a mortgage, you'd have to buy it. So, they are very fuzzy about this. And what this caused, what I don't want is to throw a monkey wrench in Buffalo's redevelopment, business-wise, homeowner wise. Now you, let's say you want to sell a business or a house in this blood zone. What if the buyer, what if you're not going to get buyers because they're going to say we don't want to pay this? And the premiums get higher and higher because homeowners at that time, this is nine years ago, were afraid of paying almost a thousand dollars or more. What is it now? What are the prices now? It could be two thousand. I don't know what they are. I don't want to misstate anything, but we need to know what this is. Is this the same thing? Is the other shoe falling? uh what are they asking us to do with these rate maps and i'm afraid that um uh this sleeping uh entity is now somehow revived itself i don't know when they did the readings is this the readings from 10 years ago are these new readings they didn't tell us about what is this so we're asking that the as uh the motion was to put the two final resolves as adopted in the others and whereas is sent to committee and to various departments and so we need uh fema dec Public Works, of course our law department, and any interested parties to come when we deliberate on this. And so we don't let people get in a bad way because some neighborhoods haven't had floods in over a hundred year flood. It hasn't happened. So we don't want something done here that's imposed from above that's unnecessary and hurtful and detrimental to people and homeowners, businesses, and the city of Buffalo. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next item. 157 West New York Land Conservancy Environmental Protection Fund project. Mr. Attorney Michael, and I think I found a button up here that I pushed that I think cut off everybody's mic. I never knew that I could just cut you off from talking. Cut us off? Yeah, there's something. I'm going to try it soon. Thank you, my counsel, for that. 158, fee waiver for Holy Cross Mass, 5K raised. Motion to approve items 58 and 59. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 60, Charter Amendment, Article 13, Department of Police, Lost or Stolen Property. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 62, Budget and Personnel Amendment, Budget and Management. Mr. Chairman, this is a motion, is this motion to approve or to adapt? Motion is to approve, excuse me, where it's 62, no, where it's 62. To approve or to adapt. We're at 62. It's a budget amendment. Mr. Chairman, this is a late file by the administration. The purpose for the budget amendment is a donation from M&T Bank. I believe it's $139,000 for a position that pays $122,400. and it was brought to our attention sometime late this morning. We did ask some questions regarding the position, obviously, and they would like immediate passage. One, what was the position as Deputy Chief Financial Officer and what the responsibilities of this person. And the responsibility according to the Commissioner who's here today is to, one of the responsibilities is to go after money that's owed the city. And I think many of us on the Common Council have harped upon the outstanding money that's due to the city. M&T Bank has agreed to fund this position, no strings attached, which I like. There's no strings attached. It's for two years. And one of the responsibilities, among other perhaps, is that they're going to go after money that is owed the city. So I think this is a win-win for the city of Buffalo. Certainly would like to thank M&T Bank for being a good corporate citizen to make that kind of donation for two years. Certainly we're going to have to revisit this after two years to find out if the position is going to continue to be funded or if it merits being funded in our own budget. So I just want to bring this up to all the council members being that it was a late file. comes from a forensic yes thank you um i don't like it when private companies give us money to do various cities functions we did it with the mis guy and now we're doing it again and i think that we have to be very careful when we accept those kinds of donations on the other hand you know i read the um uh ms bushevsky's uh uh gap sheet which raises many of the same concerns that mr schroeder did about the health of our budget and the you know some of the false assumptions and we have a budget coming up you know overestimating revenue and underestimating expenses and but this position if it may miss estrich is that what mr vera say is accurate that this deputy finance officer will pursue uh Money's owed to the city counts arrears and so forth. Yes is Dr. DeVera said presented earlier About we're looking at a new collections process. This person should be is going to be responsible for reviewing our collection process Bringing in some business expertise and how we can collect better. Just give you a name for the record. Yeah Donna Askerich, Commissioner of Administration and Finance. Is there a name here for this job? We've interviewed a number of people, and the mayor would be making a selection for the end of the week. So this person will spend, what, 90% of the time looking at this? you think or well i think that'll be their first project yeah i mean they're bringing some we're hoping to bring some outside expertise to look at overall efficiencies throughout the city to get some money for the city yes and best practices on how to collect we um i know that there's that accounts receivable and some accounts are deemed uncollectible at some point are we going to file with the council I don't mean me, but I mean your office and the Comptroller filing those accounts that are deemed uncollectible? Yes, we are. Do you have any idea when that might be? Treasury has created a list, and at this time they're currently reviewing and measuring it accurately. Okay, and you think it'll be reasonably soon? I'm hoping it'll be done before we present the budget in May. Oh, good. That's fast. I won't object to this because I already said that I'm a little nervous when you see, like, a bank giving us money to hire somebody. It's a relatively new thing that we started with Mr. Tavares. But as you explain what this individual is going to do, I think we need to aggressively go after where feasible and what's owed to the city. Thank you. Thank you. Just a question. When those accounts are written off, Is there some type of mechanism where, whether it's an individual or a company, that they cannot either do business for the City of Buffalo if they own the City of Buffalo or, for instance, buy property at our city auctions? because if they've already shown us that I mean they owe us debt or are they allowed to participate bid on projects and everything else well they can participate as long as they pay off the outstanding but if you write my question is if we write it off yes it still shows on our record so they would like to come back and when they review the people purchasing property they would go through and see if they have any outstanding liabilities for the city okay Any other questions? Council Member Fontana? The situation where the check and balance here could come into play is that this person has any type of connection with M&T and then a decision that involves a bank. So the collections, I don't think M&T is in the collection business, but they might have a subsidiary. I'm not sure. But will there be a time that this gentleman or lady that has this job will make a decision on which bank gets a... It's a contract. No. Okay, that's the main thing. No, they would never have that. Because with the outsized funds coming in, they'd be holding to those funds which are tied to the bank. Is this a two-year position? It's a two-year commitment from M&T, a donation from M&T. They've committed two years. And then potentially they'll happen down the road. I think Dr. Tavares has been doing a very, very good job. I was a little leery at first with the approach. Basically, he was saying, don't worry about how many hours I'm in the building, just worry about what I get done. I'm starting to think that it works for him and it's working for the city, and I think he does a very good job. There's not really a time that he comes into these chambers that I don't see him trying to save us money or bring us something new and better to the city of Buffalo. So I think he's been doing a great job with the existing staff that he's had there for many years. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Donna, I met with you earlier regarding this position, and I think it's money well spent, especially when we have, you know, the amount of outstanding receivables. I think it's smart. You know, we need money, and what better way to get it is try to find and get the money that we have outstanding. But you talked about write-offs and that if something is written off, You said we can still go after the person? It's still on our system that that person owed us? We would have them on our record. So it would still be an obligation to the city. Okay. Even though it's written off, it would still be in our records that that's an outstanding? Yes. Okay, so any person... I can confirm that. Let me confirm it. But, yeah, my understanding was that... okay so it's in our system so because i mean i think that's a great point um that if someone still owes us money and they haven't paid us that money we should be allowing them to do new business with us if they still owe us okay thank you all right councilman franzek um if they're private vendors or or people that owe money to see that's one thing but i would caution as a cautionary note there are 501c 501c3 not-for-profit organizations that are like instrumentalities of the city that provide services to neighborhoods you know like community centers for example Early ground leases, some utilities are paid, some were owned by the city. They never was a uniform policy for the 30 years I've been here. So what we don't want to do is, I'll give you one example. There was a sewer bill owed by the Broadway Market 25 years ago that would have closed the place down if we went after them, so to speak, because that's a city-owned building that was providing service that for one reason or another that couldn't be paid. So it was deemed uncollectible. And you'd probably check in your own districts, you might find community centers that are providing services the city doesn't provide. We used to have a division of recreation, and we haven't had it in years. So we don't provide senior services, we don't provide youth services, we don't provide directly those things, but centers do. So if some of them are on the hook for something that... might have been an affair one way or another we don't we don't discourage people from paying their debt to the city but we don't want to end up with uh city centers being closed we're stuck back with a building and now nothing is done in the neighborhood so there's reasons for ways things are done Some you go after, some you understand that that's a service that's there for the community that we want to continue. Yeah, I think if it's a vital service, my question was basically about businesses. Yeah, you want a pavement company that owes us, you know, a million dollars, and then he comes and puts in a bid, he should go find the million dollars. But I agree with you because, well, yeah, there's some organizations that owe us some money. I think we all know that. i don't think we can shut them down next item item 63 commissioner deeds motion to adopt item 63 and 64. second by council member columbia did we put in a motion on that we motion to approve yep okay next time Item 65, waive special event fees for University United Festival. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 65A, Council Member Farrell, let her excuse for meeting. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item 66, for the committee to hold. Submitted resumes for vacancy with the city controller. Motion to table. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, March 12th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on education, Tuesday, March 12th, 12 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, March 12th, 1 p.m. Committee on community development, Tuesday, March 12th, 2 p.m. Councilmembers, any announcements for your districts or otherwise? Councilmember Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. Of the Masson District, of course, we'll be having our monthly stakeholders meeting where we serve our constituents and our residents breakfast. Of course, the entire city of Buffalo is invited to come out and share with us some great food and some great information. Again, that's at the Delavan Rider Center, 877 East Delavan, right in the heart of the city of Buffalo, right in the heart of Masson District. And we start at 830 in the morning. We're eating by 9 o'clock. And then we have all this great information and presentations right after we finish eating. I know people are full and hungry and sleepy, but we get the information right out with the good food. And I want to just encourage everyone that you're all invited to the Madison District Stakeholders Meeting, which is a breakfast where we serve the only district that feeds our constituents, Every month. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think I think comes from why. Oh, I'm not. And let me just say this also, that we serve the best food in the city of Buffalo as well. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Speaking of that, stop the madness. Basketball tournament. District basketball tournaments, we had our district games, and we had the championship game on March the 9th at the William Emsley YMCA. We have the Mastin District, University District. South have somebody in there this year? South has somebody in there. Lovejoy has somebody in there. Of course, Ellicott has somebody in there. And we did get paid refs this time so that there would be no – to the university district who brings University of Buffalo students, I believe, to represent their teams in the fifth grade parks. Don't hate. Yeah. Council Member Wyatt, floor record. I want to invite the community, especially block clubs, to our annual license renewal meeting. I'm thankful that Council Member Fontana joins us for these meetings. It's going to take place at 995 Kensington. on Monday, March 11th, and Thursday, March 14th, at 5.30, from 5.30 to 7. So I invite the community to come out. If you have a store in your district, please come. We want to hear the good news as well as if there's issues, because we want to make sure we approve the licenses with the community support, because we want these businesses to do well. We want them to be responsible to the residents. So, again, that's March 11th from 5.30 to 7 and March 14th. Again, from 5307 at Kensington Bailey, Neighborhood Housing at 995 Kensington. I also want to invite residents, if you are in need of improvements to your home, I have an exciting announcement coming this Saturday. We have an organization, Eight Days of Hope, that will be providing this type of support to residents who are in need, free, That's free. So you need to come to our meeting on Saturday at 9 a.m. at University United Methodist Church, Fortson, Minnesota, from 9 to 1030 to hear about this important, important announcement. If you have not been able to get grants, if you are a senior, if you need roofing, This will be a volunteer effort, so please come this Saturday at University United Methodist Church, 410 Minnesota, at 9 a.m. for this very important announcement and information. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Seconded by Councilman Fontana. We adjourn.