roll call council member Farrell Oh that's my fontana president that's my frowns in here that's my glow back here council president pretty happy council member Rivera president council member Scanlon president customer Wingo president customer Wyatt here for him present this stamp we pledge our chaplain the river now warning Good afternoon. I bring greetings from Atlanta, Marietta, Georgia, from Pastor Matthew Brown. I know many of you remember Pastor Brown both as pastor of Pentecostal Temple Church of God in Christ on Jefferson, the role that he played in the Masiello administration as well. Sunday before last, we got the pre-tour in Marietta and see what wonderful anointing is on his life in ministry down there. Interestingly enough, had to be more than 10 years ago now, when we were at Pentecostal Temple, he invited Deb to help share in my sermon. For the first time that Sunday, we co-preached. And we've done that nearly every Sunday since. What was birthed in Pentecostal Temple has continued through Bethel and church after church in the region. Sunday ago, we got to preach in Marietta, Georgia, in his new church, and co-preach, which was a wonderful treat. Since I wasn't here for Black History Month, I wanted to share with you, before we pray, a quote, one of my favorites from Dr. King. I know we're just a bit beyond it, but it's a memorable quote. It's one that's impacted my life for a long time. And I'll remind you, in case any of you forget, I'm sure you wouldn't, that he was the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King. He started in the pulpit and his dad passed that mantle on to son. And a strong mantle from the pulpit it was, a prophetic word. This came from him November 1967 from Ebenezer Baptist Church. You may be familiar with it, but apply it to your own life and leadership. You may be 38 years old as I happen to be and one day some great opportunity stands before you and calls you to stand up for some great principle. some great issues, some great cause, and you refuse to do it because you're afraid. You refuse to do it because you want to live longer. You're afraid you'll lose your job, afraid that you'll be criticized or that you'll lose your popularity, or you're afraid that somebody will stab you or shoot at you or bomb your house, or you refuse to take the stand. Well, you may go on and live until you're 90, but you're just as dead at 38 as you would be at 90. And the cessation of breathing in your life is but the belated announcement of an earlier death of this year. Leadership isn't easy. Dr. King made the ultimate sacrifice at all too young an age. But he led knowing that the decisions he made and the direction he was going would change generations of people in this nation. And his voice still speaks. His voice outlasts it. Will you make leadership decisions that outlast you for righteousness? Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for your goodness. Thank you for your hand on this city and its direction. Thank you for those here in leadership, not just on the council, but throughout the group who lead in all kinds of ways in our city. We pray your blessings on the Buffalo Police Department as they're gathered here. Thank you, Father, for even now the protection of those who provide protection to us. And Lord Dr. King reminds us that there are kinds of challenging and difficult decisions. We look face to face, eyeball to eyeball. And it's easy because of fear or public outcry not to do the right and righteous thing. I pray even today, courage... Be strong and of good courage, you said. We take that seriously today and I pray for courage to make right and righteous decisions for each of the Council Members. Thank you for this time. We invite your Holy Spirit presence on these, our gatherings. And we'll thank you in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Council Member Morales? Council Member Frantz? Council Member Scanlon? Thank you, Council President. South Buffalo, the Buffalo Police Department, A District, and the city of Buffalo as a whole experienced a tremendous loss last week with the passing of A District Chief Tom Moran at the far too young age of 49. Chief Moran was born in South Buffalo, attended St. Ambrose Grammar School, Bishop Tymon High School, and Brockport State. After college, he spent several years serving as a counselor at Father Baker Homes and ultimately joining the police department in 1994. During those 24 years on the Buffalo Police Department, he rose through the ranks, serving on the underwater rescue and recovery team, eventually serving as the unit's commander, eventually being promoted lieutenant, and ultimately a district chief where he used his incredible skills to lead that district. Chief Moran was an extremely dedicated and decorated police officer, and he leaves behind his wife, Kelly, and their two young daughters, Ava and Lila. And I would ask that everyone here just please keep his family in their thoughts of prayer. Council Member Golomba? Thank you Mr. President. I didn't know Tom that well, I'd only met him a couple of times, but his wife Kelly had worked here in City Hall for quite some time and I was unable to make it to the wake yesterday, but my heart breaks for her and the family as well. The North District lost Jane Vyotrovsky, and I know I've mentioned this before, but you know it's one of the most wonderful things about the job that we have is we get to meet so many wonderful people but when you get to meet so many wonderful people you lose many of those wonderful people over the years I knew Jane from the neighborhood and from the Riverside Library we always joked that it was our library date we would meet each other usually on Saturdays she's going to be very very sorely missed by her family and her friends former deputy police commissioner Charlie Tomaszewski's mother also passed away she's going to be very very sorely missed by her family and her friends Chris another who is Charlie's brother worked in City Hall for quite some time as well he retired a couple years ago and then as you all know Chito Olivencia's mother passed away I've known Chito, I got one of my first jobs from Chito in 1988. I worked at Ellicott Creek. And he was always very, very fair with me politically. We've been on the same side, on different sides. But he was always a gentleman. I always liked working with him. And I liked working against him because he was, once again, he was always fair. You know, he never took unfair shots and he was always professional. So my condolences to all of these people and their families. Thank you. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to just acknowledge the family of Elton E. McDaniel Sr. He passed away last week. He leaves his fiancée and his two sons to cherish his memory. He was also a member of the Antioch Baptist Church, of which he sang in the male choir, and he was also a part of some empowerment and mentoring ministries where the men of the church would actually go out to the communities and try to mentor and uplift and encourage young men to be better men. So we are going to mourn his loss for a while and we really would like the family to know that they will be in our thoughts and in our prayers moving forward. Now Mr. McDaniel was a resident of Madison District. And I know that he was a very, very strong man, and that when he passed away, no one knew how sick he was, not even himself. And usually his fiancée, who has been by his side for 40 years, is usually always there. And this one time, he sent her home to go get his clothes. I'm not going to give you your text for Sunday, but this one time, she sent him home to get his clothes. by the time she got home and situated for a little bit, he had passed away. And I would say that he asked her to go get his clothes, but he was preparing to go somewhere else. And he's just a wonderful man, and he will be sorely missed. His family will forever be in our thoughts and prayers. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Council Member Franzen. Thank you, Mr. President. I first met Tom Moran. oh decades ago over 20 years ago because he was a street officer on the east side with his partner uh jim reese so tom moran and jim maurice jim reese were the kind of like dynamic duo dealing with east side street crime and i met them on numerous occasions and i liked them both immediately and the thing that struck me about tom is that he was such a kind of nice approachable person you could talk to him and he felt you had a friend immediately I mean, sometimes you might see a policeman, it might be intimidating, or is he going to be tough? This guy was so approachable, so easy to talk to, and it was a real loss. And I think the last time I saw Tom might have been at Mr. Robinson's Seneca Babcock block club meeting last year. And he seemed great, seemed fine, and just left a wonderful legacy, of course. We're very sorry for his wife, Kelly. Thank you. My father, Stan, was a councilman here, so they were involved in the community for many, many years, so we can certainly miss them. Mr. Gorenbeck mentioned Mrs. Tomaszewski, mother of Deputy Commissioner Charles Tomaszewski, who was a dear friend of mine for... since the early 1970s for many, many years from the East Side. Both of his parents were very involved in the so-called Armia Krajowa, which is the Polish Home Army, which was fighting the Nazis. And they were involved with the great uprising of 1944 in the city of Warsaw. So they fought for the country, fought for the allies came, and then Mrs. Tomaszewski was here, and her father, Karel, who I knew very well, uh work for the city assessors anyone else hearing on others we always pause for those names that were called and also for men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries across this world we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence maybe see we are pleased to have so many in the chambers today uh part of our of of uh some of our here is because of a special presentation by council member joel fierletto mike This month we want to recognize Michelle from Dress for Success. Her organization does an outstanding job helping and empowering and we see people in the storefront right on Hurdle Avenue in the Delaware District. We're thrilled that they're on the lab field. They do so many wonderful things for young women. One of the services they do is... women going on job interviews for the first time, providing them professional clothes for their interviews. I walk in the storefront and say you guys do such a great job with this. We appreciate everything you do for the city. certificate of recognition. This certificate is recognized Dress for Success Buffalo for their support to women with the professional clothing, skills, and development opportunities they needed to secure employment and achieve success. Dress for Success promotes the economic independence of women by providing career development tools and a support network. Our city is greater with organizations like you. Therefore, I hereunto set my hand to and enter the certificate certificate to the public record on this day, March 6th. I'm really honored to come vote. I love the work that I do. I work for a great organization. Dress for Success is one of 152 affiliates, so it is a global organization. We are located on Hurdle Avenue. We love Hurdle. It's a walkable community. We have great neighbors, but more importantly, we just love working and supporting the women here in the city of Buffalo. We just love it. We provide them with professional attire for their interviews. If they get the job, then they come back to Dress for Success and we give them free clothes, a week's worth of free clothes. Everything is free. Everything is based on volunteers and we just receive a lot of donations and just honored to be here and thank you for recognizing our organization thank you to the council thanks to council president for supporting dress for success and thank you to mayor brown for providing us with the funding that we needed to to get started so thank you all i appreciate it Before you go, because we're broadcasting live and it'll broadcast over and over, is there a way that folks who are watching might be able to either donate, or can they donate clothes or money, and where to donate it? because we're a 501c3, so we're always in grant writing and fundraising mode. But if you want to make a donation, we're now accepting spring and summer clothes. We have received such an overwhelming response to clothing that we actually work through our clothes and provide them to other nonprofits that are in need, the clothes that we can't use at our organization. We don't provide clothing to organizations. clothing, but to organizations, to people that are really in need. So we accept donations on Wednesdays at 1639 Hurdle Avenue, and that's between the hours of 1130 and 4 p.m., and we can only accept on Wednesdays because we do receive an overwhelming response to the clothing donation. And if you want to reach me, you can reach us at 716-710-7109. 0092 that's 716 710 0092 or just stop by the boutique on Hurdle Avenue Monday through Thursday 1130 to 5 p.m. everybody who's with you will you just raise your hand so we see how many we're gonna lose in a minute all right that's it all right thank you for being right thank you know the presentations All right. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mrs. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on February 20th, 2018 are approved. Gentlemen, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that was before us, not taking away your right to object, as we come to those items, if you have not had a chance to review those items. And we will go from the top. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 64 out of order. The motion is to take item 64 out of order. Item 64, discharge 18-266 from legislation. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golomba. On the top? On the top. Item 1, appoint Commissioner of Police. Thank you. motion is to approve. We have the commissioner before us, Mr. President, and during caucus yesterday we decided to allow the commissioner to speak and to be asked some questions from some of the council members so we can move this item forward. Alright, so then I would like to, let's hold the approving motion then until the questions have been placed because there might be someone who does, who will not approve so I don't want to take away that right or make that assumption. Mr. Chairman, for the sake of transparency, THE COMMISSIONER MET WITH ALL NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS AND I THINK AT LEAST I KNOW I SPENT ONE HOUR WITH HIM AND I IMAGINE THE OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS SPENT AN HOUR SO TOTALLY MAYBE OVER TEN HOURS THAT WE SAT DOWN WITH THEM TO TALK ABOUT DIFFERENT ITEMS. And we want to make sure that the public knows that Yester was a vetting process and that we did interview him. We did discuss our concerns, some questions, some suggestions. And as far as I was concerned, he was very clear on what his plans are for the Waffle Police Department going forward. So I'm going to turn it over to you and... Any questions that might be helpful? All right, gentlemen. So, again, thank you, Majority Leader, for getting that conversation. And I think because the police department is so important to the quality of life of the city of Buffalo, that it has to be very transparent. So we want to make sure that... Councilmembers do have that opportunity if there are questions that have not been asked. I think that the public deserves to hear maybe some of the highlights, so if we can start with just from the Commissioner, some of what he has shared or his platform going forward, and then Councilmembers will have the opportunity to ask questions. Thank you Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the Mayor of Buffalo for giving me this opportunity to serve as Commissioner of Buffalo Police Department. I started off as an officer with the department on January 30th, 1984. Worked my way up to the rank of Texas Sergeant. Worked in Special Crime Unit Intelligence in C District 2 before I was appointed First Deputy Police Commissioner in 2010. My love for the department has been my driving force. Policing in 2018 has significantly changed since my initial appointment to the department went from carbon-carb, paper to... My goal is for the department is to be in tune with the community policing, address the needs of the citizen, I believe as commissioner my objective my objective will be to continue driving towards the overall reduction of crime we've seen over the past 12 years within the city I'm looking forward to guiding this department through the next phase I'm here to support I'm here with my supporting staff and willing to answer any questions council members council member Franczak I apologize for not pushing the button. Not a problem. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like the other council members, I spent about an hour and a half with... uh... mister lockwood uh... last weekend i'm not gonna repeat those questions i don't think everyone's gonna repeat the questions but and i'm glad that uh... the designee commissioner brief opening statement because i think it's important this is such an important uh... position that we're going to vote on which deals with matters of life and death essentially uh... and public safety and buffalonians wanna make sure that uh... they'll be in good hands So without, you know, going into the questions that I had in my office, Commissioner, if you had three top priorities, a vision, your vision for the Buffalo Police Department, and it's tough because there might be more, but if you had your three top priorities, what would they be? First, my first priority would be the accreditation. I'm working on... diligently and aggressively to get predation done. We're hoping to have that done within the next year. Second topic will be the body cameras, which we will be starting a pilot program with the body cameras by the end of this month. Okay. Now, my... Is there more? Did I cut you off? I heard two, and I didn't hear any talking, so... Sorry, go ahead. The third one would be community policing. My officers, having more officers out in the community, and as I said before, not just a couple of community police officers in the district. My goal is to have the whole police department doing community policing. So that's three. Now, Mr. Lockwood, are you like President Teddy Roosevelt? Do you know what I'm driving at? You're a very soft-spoken gentleman. Joe knows. Teddy Roosevelt, you're very quiet. Can you be tough when you have to be? Oh yeah, I can talk. Because Teddy Roosevelt said, speak softly and carry a big stick, which I probably know. Yes, sir. You can be tough when you have to be, because you're a quiet gentleman. One thing I can tell you, Councilmember, is I don't repeat myself. When I sit down in a meeting and tell them this is what I want done, we won't go over this again. Okay? Very good. I will say one thing. When I asked the commissioner why he wanted to become a police officer, I liked his answer. It was all the unrest that was in the city in the 1960s. So I remember that very well. There were Vietnam War protests. There was, I remember, tear gas in Allentown. There were race riots in the city of Buffalo on the east side, and I remember it very, very well. And the commissioner remembers that, and I hope I'm not telling anything out of school, but what he said is at that moment he wanted to become a police officer. So, he had to be a very, very young man when, back in the 1960s, because I'm a little older than the commissioner, when he said he wanted to become a police officer. So, that was impressive, is that at that moment in time, he always knew what he wanted to be. And I think that kind of certainty puts him in a place where he ought to be, and hopefully, if he is to be confirmed, he will be. He will serve with that same kind of enthusiasm that he had all those many years ago. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Councilman Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I had a wonderful meeting last week and I want to thank you for coming in. One of the topics that you touched on in the meeting and again here today was accreditation and I know how important that is to you, getting that done as quickly as possible. Could you just give us a couple of the highlights of the process of how that's going to take place and maybe any minor hurdles or major hurdles we might have? The only hurdle that I can really see is there will be full evaluation, and that's something that would have to be negotiated with the union, the evaluation part. But by this being our first time, well, our first go at the accreditation, if the union will sign off on it saying that we will negotiate with them on this, and a letter coming from me, then we will be able to get approval for accreditation. one of the important topics when it comes to policing that I think all the council members have been keeping a close eye on is training recently there was a round of promotions and when those officers are promoted do they receive any sort of training immediately for that new rank that they're at yes lieutenants are big we trained them for a week go over refreshing course as far as I'm reporting and reporting and the using the computer system and internal affairs. But that's a week of training with them, and also the detectives. We send them through training as far as investigating skills, doing search warrants. Thank you. Council Member Winkle? Thank you, Mr. Chair. We had a great one-hour-and-a-half discussion in my office when I spoke with Commissioner-elect Winkle lockwood and we had a very in-depth conversation regarding some of his priorities which he listed a few moments ago one of which has to do with a lot with community policing and ensuring that one of his priorities is to ensure that the entire Buffalo Police Department is community focused one of those things that we discussed was the THE POLICE OFFICERS. THE POLICE OFFICERS ARE INVESTIGATING A PETITION THAT IS CURRENTLY FLOATING IN THE CITY OF BUFFALO REGARDING THE LOWEST LEVEL ENFORCEMENT PRIORITY. IT HAS A LOT TO DO WITH citizens in the city of Buffalo for nonviolent crimes, crimes that are not threatening or things that would potentially hurt an individual for the rest of their life regarding being arrested for petty possession or small possession of marijuana, 25 grams or less. I would just like for him to elaborate on his response to that line of questioning yesterday, not yesterday, but last week. when we spoke my office regarding his support or not support to ensure that we give some of these youngsters a chance to to at least take advantage of college loans and housing and other things that they will be ineligible for should they have a record i'm counseling when we spoke at length about that and um first of all i would say that um But I failed to tell you that next week we are going to meet with people from Albany on the LEAD program. And that program is to work on when someone gets arrested for non-violent crime. The first version, marijuana possession and disorderly conduct and larceny, those types of things. I know you did bring up about the marijuana arrest. I would always ask my officers to use discretion, but I would never tell them not to do their job. And I know that there's a lot of times where you may run into someone who may have a joint on them, and like I said, I would tell them just to use their discretion. But if it's on the books, then we have to act, and most of the time those are violations, not crimes, violations. And one of the things that we really spoke about, again, like you just stated, we spoke at length about ensuring that the relationship between the community and the police department is restored. Particularly Madison community residents are reaching out to ensure that representation exists in conversations regarding these violations. And I have to say that the conversation that I had with Commissioner Lockwood last week was very insightful, was very comprehensive. He does have a plan. Of course, he had alluded to it a few seconds ago regarding diversion programs and other referral programs, working with the court system to ensure that our young people are not tied up for divorce. BAD DECISIONS IN THEIR VERY, VERY, VERY YOUTHFUL AGES. SO WITH THAT, MR. CHAIR, I AM IN SUPPORT OF MR. LOCKWOOD BEING APPOINTED TO COMMISSIONER OF THE CITY OF BUTHEL POLICE DEPARTMENT. THANK YOU, SIR. COUNCILMAN PERELETO. WE ALSO MET LAST WEEK FOR A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF TIME, AND I KNOW ONE OF THE ITEMS THAT WE DISCUSSED WAS IN THE DELAWARE DISTRICT, WHICH I REPRESENT A LOT OF THE the most common calls that I get and people are requesting is more police enforcement at different intersections, traffic enforcement, red lights, things like that. And I know you had touched on eliminating the task force or the strike force and having more people, more officers doing patrol and community police, and more community police. If you can just touch on that for a minute, that would be appreciated. Thank you. As you know, the last couple of weeks we have eliminated the strike force and the bodies from the strike force is we're going to pick up and take those bodies and expand the traffic. Traffic is going to have more assignments than just special events. They will be out in force on BNTs, moving vehicles, traffic enforcement. And also they will be walking, we will have them walk in the business district in the neighborhoods too. So that would be to help in the district where you're having problems with traffic. I didn't get this second question. Okay, thank you. All right, Council Member Golomba. Thank you Mr. President. I too met with the almost commissioner last week and had a really, really good meeting. It was very informative. Now I've also had the pleasure of knowing Mr. Lockwood for close to 20 years now on a professional and on a personal basis. And we talked about many of the things that he brought up here today. I'm very, very pleased and happy that he's going to look at and push for the accreditation, the body cameras, and the community policing. One thing that I just want to share is that, and this is something that I would hope that they would look at, and I forgot to bring this up when we had our meeting last week. We would periodically have officers that would show up at our Little League sports venues. And it always worked out great because you had a lot of kids there. Riverside Park, sometimes I have 2,000 people in that park. And it's great to have a police officer that shows up and walks around and talks to parents and talks to kids and sees them in generally a very, very, you know, positive and non-threatening sort of a way. So I did forget, Mr. Lockwood, to bring that up last week, but I would hope that that's something that we would take a look at. It's not necessarily assigning an officer. But having the officers show up and talk to the kids, same thing, you know, Northwest Buffalo Community Center, the Assaree Center, you know, I would love to see the cops, the officers stop there periodically and get to know some of these kids, you know, on a very, very different level. Because I had a very, very sad experience this year. We were doing our Christmas tree lighting at Amherst and Niagara Street, and there were three or four... young kids, maybe seven, eight, nine years old, and a couple of the officers from D District came to see the lighting. And these children said, you know, oh, what are the cops doing here? We didn't do it. And it was the tone of voice that they were using. And just like, you know, and I hate to say it in these words, but just like other types of behaviors are learned from parents and the environment that are around us, So too is the anti-police attitude that some people have. And I think that when people get to know our police officers and they get to meet with them, and especially the young kids, I think that it changes their views on them. You know, I was fortunate as a kid. I had a half a dozen police officers that lived within a couple of blocks of my house. So I got to know them, and I wasn't a troublemaker to begin with, but I knew that if I did something wrong, these coppers would have called my house. and they were not only police officers but they were neighbors and they were human beings and i think that's the thing that we sometimes forget is that people don't always get up past that blue uniform uh... especially kids but if we get to know these officers on a more personal level uh... in the community policing that Mr. Lockwood is talking about i think that that will work very very well uh... so i'm looking forward to voting for him today as commissioner thank you council member council member fontana Well, first off, I want to thank the Council President for allowing the discussion. I think this is a good discussion and I appreciate you opening up the floor. Secondly, I did meet with our new Commissioner for an hour and a half. I thought the hour and a half seemed long. I felt bad for you because I talked too much and I felt that I kept you so long but now I'm hearing everybody else kept you the same so now I don't feel bad about that anymore. So that's okay. When it comes down to traffic, my Goombahti, Mr. Faralletto mentioned that traffic is being expanded. Now, I once was played for Precinct 11 once. I'm not going to get played for Precinct 11 twice. You don't have any intention of closing down the Precinct 11 building over on Bailey Avenue that currently houses traffic. You don't intend to close that because the division will be getting bigger? You got enough room there to put everybody there? Yeah, we should have enough room to put everyone there. You do? Yes. All right, so there won't be any closure? No. No Precinct 11 building presence in Lovedorn? No. Okay. We'd rather have a precinct, to be honest with you. What are your thoughts on precincts? Dan Durenda was asked that question. He said he doesn't mind precincts, but what are your thoughts on precincts and our current setup of five districts? I thought precincts compared to the district, when you was in the precinct, I thought you had the more, the officers saw each other more. As with the district, it's so wide and big that sometimes you, with the schedule you work, you work the four days you work, you may not see a certain officer maybe just two days out of it. I like the precinct because it was... You got to know, I worked in the precinct, so that's why I'm saying that. When I was in patrol, I worked in the precinct. And you got to know people a little better because your area wasn't as wide. But once they went to the district, what you did is you combined three houses together, and you had more ground to cover. Yeah, like a big high school? Yeah. everybody's that I spoke to speaks very highly of you sir Patty Pierce from the school board spoke very highly of you you've worked with deputy commissioner beating out for quite a long time and deputy commissioner Beatty has done a fantastic job as our chief in the e-district when she came in it was It was a total breath of fresh air of all chiefs. I think she was our star chief. And then when she became deputy commissioner, we were very proud of her as well. So we want to hope that you guys continue your work together. And then if you add a third, which I'm sure you're going to, you pick the right person. So welcome aboard. We're concerned and lovejoy that the police presence is there. Schiller Park is concerned about police presence and as was mentioned, the smaller crimes, the larcenies are the ones we really want to try to catch. And I'd like to see some innovative approaches, maybe some sting operations, put out a decoy car, see who's breaking into these cars, nab them right there. I'm sick of waiting all night long to catch someone. I'd rather catch them quick and put them in jail. Hopefully the judge hands down a sentence that will keep them in jail a little bit longer than a day, but that's up to the judge. So welcome aboard. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I too met with Mr. Lockwood and we had a lengthy conversation. I'm not going to say it was an hour or two, but it was lengthy because I did have a lot on my mind regarding the police department because of all the issues that have come forth from the community. And we talked about a number of things. One of the first things we talked about was overtime, very concerned about the overtime and how you're going to address the overtime. Again, I'm not looking for officers to say after 40 hours I've got to run and I have a robbery, but certainly we understand and have to do something with the overtime. The overtime usage for police and fire has to be something that we address because the city is going to have to start tightening its buckles as far as our expenditures. So can you just talk about how you're going to address overtime? Well, as you know, we have in the police department, I am addressing it and our overtime has over the last couple of pay periods have come down. It's just the part of that continue we have to staff for minimum manpower. So that's something that I really can't get away from. I got to make sure that the calls are answered. But as far as just coming in to get overtime, those days are over with. You've got to have a good reason for it and you must go through your chain of command to get it. And once you work the overtime, we want to see what you establish with that overtime. And I'm very much in support of your command staff making those decisions, but like you said, you know, I hope that we can change the culture of just overtime just being a given if there's police issues regarding council members and the citizens we absolutely want the best coverage and I know there's been a lot more issues as far as the activities in the city because of those activities have more of a police presence but I think that you've diagnosed some of that and how you would address it from that point of view as well so thank you for that the last thing I want to talk about is the number of incidents that we've had to pay on payout regarding some of the police police may be missteps as far as their enforcement. We know we've had a lot of payouts regarding those type things and one of the things that we've talked about as a council is if you can inform us. We don't want to know what was the individual but we want to know that there was a remedy that if we have to pay a thousand hundred thousands of dollars that that individual has gotten this proper training or retraining so that that incident doesn't happen again. We can't continue to pay out these high dollar amounts. for those type of incidents? And you talked about how you would address that. Can you just speak on that as well? Those incidents, when they happen, we do have our internal affairs look into that. And once they look into it, we review it. And if there's training that need to be done, then we'll have training. But if there's charges that need to be brought up on the individual, we bring them up on charges. And if it's real severe, then we go for dismissal. And I'm glad to hear that you're no nonsense when it comes to those type of things. I think, you know, again, I support police officers. I want to make sure that they're respected. But when we have individuals who seem to have a pattern of those things, we need to address it. So I'm glad that you're going to be addressing that. The last thing I want to just commend you that we talked a great deal about community policing, about officers walking the beat. I think that's so important, especially in this day and time when there's so much unfortunately distrust of police officers but I think getting to know people we've seen little clips of individuals officers out there playing with young people I would like to see more of those things but more interaction I think that's a huge plus people want to support the police and I think a lot of people do I mean I know in my district They are very much respected. I mean, Deputy Chief Beatty has done a fantastic job, her and Chief Minza, as far as keeping the lines of communication open with the district, working with our block clubs. You talked about addressing block clubs as well. So I just want to see that you're successful. Love all the things that you've been talking about, and just hope that you can be successful in making sure that we have the best police force in the state of New York. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Revere. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I started in 1982. You started two years after I did. And I've known you for 22 years, and he really hasn't changed much. He's the same person he was 22 years ago and as Councilmember Franczak said with regards to history, he's very quiet but he's very analytical. He looks at things very carefully before making decisions and if you spend any amount of time with him, just sit down and talk to him, you'll know that he expresses himself really well, very knowledgeable of the things that are before him. He has a vision for the Buffalo Police Department. I did speak of things of interest to me. I talked about police oversight and continuing the relationship we have with regards to police oversight. And I was glad to hear that we're together on that. The police advisory committee that we're going to be announcing pretty soon. I've talked to some of the council members and the council president. We're going to put together an advisory committee of professionals, educators, community representatives that want to work to improve the level of professionalism within the Buffalo Police Department. I was glad to see that the commissioner was open to it, and he was going to appoint his command staff to work with that advisory committee. So many of the issues that come before us every six months won't come before us every six months. They will be handled in between meetings, because many times... We get bogged down at these police oversight with things that should have been handled way before that. The other item I talked about, training and de-escalation, that was the big thing this year. What are we going to do to de-escalate detention? What are we going to do to the confrontations, the use of force? and we talked about de-escalation and de-escalation training and I think that we heard that loud and clear at our police oversight meeting and there is training going on with regards to de-escalation and I want to thank Deputy Commissioner Beatty who heads the training I believe for the Buffalo Police Department we also talked about discipline and management rights and and there are times where Buffalo the administrators have to step back and let other people handle it because it's an inherent conflict of interest for them to investigate themselves. And as Durenda did prior to him, he would call the state attorney general, the U.S. attorney general, to just take us out of it and say there's no inherent conflict. You investigate it yourself. And that's something I'm glad it's going to continue. Sometimes it's mandated. But I was glad to see that if there is a case involving... POLICE OFFICERS. I AM NOT SAYING THIS TO ACCUSE THE POLICE OFFICERS OF POLICE MISCONDUCT. I AM SAYING THIS NOT TO ACCUSE WITH A BROAD BRUSH ALL THE that yes, if they are bad police officers, we need to weed them out of the Buffalo Police Department. For the great part, I have nothing but praise for the Buffalo Police Department and its officers. I've worked alongside them. I appreciate the work they do every day when they show up to work and they put their lives at risk and I don't want anybody to tarnish that good work that they're doing. So when they do tarnish the badge, it offends me as well. So management rights, discipline, management labor rights, how to work with our union as well. It's not just about It's not just about being tough, it's sometimes you have to compromise. You have to work with the labor unions. And that is another item we talked about, the utilization of manpower with respect to our districts. where I'd like to see some of the police officers used and how to use, he was open to that discussion. And I just wanted to confirm that that's the discussion we had. Openly, so I can say yes, that affirms the meeting that we had. last week, Tuesday at 2.30. Is that the meeting that we have and the things that we discussed? Yes, sir. Okay, so I just highlighted that on the record that those are the things that we discussed. I am happy for Byron, and I'm happy for his family. I don't know if your family's here. Yes. Well, half the chamber. Half the chamber. I know it's a proud day for you to raise the rank of commissioner. It's everyone's desire to always... to improve and move up. But to be able to go up to the rank of commissioner is such an important position. And we're here to help you as a common council and provide the Buffalo Police Department the resources that you need with regards to training, technology. And there are times where they're telling us we have a very tough time and the budgets are tough. But public safety is so important. I don't think this common council has ever voted against public safety in the time that I've been here and I've been here 12 years we've never once if it's before us and there's an item before us to fund we've always funded that item we will continue to do it we wish you all the best and we thank you for the service to the city of Buffalo and we thank the Buffalo Police Department for the great work it does thank you thank you thank you for accommodating us today Let me just say a couple things. And when I was told that your name was being forwarded, one of the first questions I asked was about your team, making sure that Commissioner Beattie would be there because I've watched you all work together. When I heard that that was going to stay, I think our meeting was about four minutes. And our meeting was about four minutes because I've had eight years to work with you. So I know your temperament. when i did my master's degree they called it quiet leadership a lot of times people make noise but they don't get anything done i'd rather have a quiet leader who don't get something done than just make noise buffalo has the opportunity right now to be a model city when it comes to relationships with people and police because you've come from some of the neighborhoods that at times feel somewhat intimidated by police presence. My hope is when they see you, when they see your team, your entire team and under your leadership, that some of that will change for the positive. Because I know how tough it is burying so many homicide victims. And you know somebody sitting in that funeral who knows something, won't say it, Sometimes it's because of street stuff, other times it's because relationships. So I wrote three words, relationships, relationships, relationships. We can build those relationships if you are successful, and this whole council hopes you will be, and your team, in building the relationships with people so that Buffalo never, and thank God we haven't to this point, never has to experience what some cities have experienced. but that people will work together because they see the police officer as someone who is there for them, not someone who is against them. And I think that criminals should be petrified of your leadership. They should hope that when he says it, it's going to happen, and we got to either pack up and get a real job or move out of Buffalo. But children should be so connected and electrified when they see their police officers and know them. But the law-abiding citizen needs to be satisfied that police are going to be there for them. They're going to make sure that their neighborhoods are safe and that the man in charge, the person in charge, has the heart, for the city. And I believe what you've just heard is that these council members, myself, feel you do. And so with that said, if there are no other comments, what's the motion? Motion is to approve. Motion is to approve, second by Council Member Wingo. Any objections? It's unanimous vote. Welcome. Do you have anybody taking pictures or somebody you want to stand with you? All right. And it doesn't have to be, but he's got family with him. As you raise your right hand and repeat these or state these words, I, Byron C. Lockwood. I just bow on this square that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the United States. of the state of New York have a faithfully discharged duty of peace permission of the city of Buffalo, according to the best of my ability. Ladies and gentlemen, the newest police officer in the world, Byron C. Lockwood. Now I know that everybody just wants to stay throughout the entire meeting. But if you don't want to, it's okay. We'll pause for a moment so that you all can greet the Police Commissioner of the City of Buffalo. All right. We're going to continue on with our agenda. Item 2, appoint Chief Information Officer. motion sent to legislation second by councilman fair little and I'm through your appointment to the preservation board motion is sent to legislation I'm sorry All right. What was the motion? I'm sorry. The motion is sent to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 4 has been withdrawn. Item 4A, 260 Lakefront Boulevard. Motion is sent to CD. Mr. President. I'm sorry. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Who has the floor? Yes. Thanks, Mr. President. 240, 260 Lakefront Boulevard. You're well aware that you and I have spent a tremendous amount of effort and time on this item 240 260 Lakefront Boulevard which is going to committee is scheduled for a public hearing It's the last remaining acreage along Buffalo's waterfront that was first developed under the Jimmy Griffin administration. I remember when those homes were being built. And yet this one has caused a great deal of interest primarily for the residents who are there. And I see that Mr. Fiedler and Mr. Lysak are here, who we've had many conversations with, as well as a representative from the developer. Ms. Holycroft is here as well. JUST STAYED OUT OF THE BOX IS THE COUNCIL HAS NOT FILED THIS ITEM. THIS ITEM HAS BEEN FILED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF STRATEGIC PLANNING. WE KNOW THAT THE ITEM HAS BEEN TABLED AT THE PLANNING BOARD. The residents who live there are well cognizant that there will be development at that location. That was the idea. In fact, about 10 or 15 years ago, a group of doctors wanted to do a development there, but this was right around the time of the 2008 economic crash, so they never did. So this latest development has really kind of been on the books for about two years, because it had to keep going back to the drawing board. I think we had about three or four meetings at Templeton Landing with hundreds of people, as well as smaller meetings as well. The three issues that kept coming up on this project were height, setback, and density. Those are the three pillars of people's concerns. Because they wanted to have developments. So they said, we're not NIMBY. They're not NIMBY. Not in my backyard. They're not saying that because they know the development will be there. But it had to be in development in accords with development that is already there. In fact, we and this council made sure that under the unified development code, in the green code, or ordinance, I should say, that the footage was available. in height was mandated by the green code. So they, and the planning board, they said they don't necessarily have to go for a variance. So the question is, is that we know the developer, Simonelli Corporation, has gone back to the drawing board a number of times. They are, in my sense, because there was a meeting of tenants last night, that there are still some issues. They, the tenants would like to work out those issues. So, what I'm calling for here is that before our public hearing is that the developer and the tenants with us if necessary, by us I mean if we can make our schedules available and the Department of Strategic Planning sit down again and see if there's a way we can make this happy that people are reasonably satisfied. Again, everyone may not be completely satisfied. But we want to see development go forward in a responsible manner. We don't want it to go ad infinitum forever. THE ADMINISTRATION OBVIOUSLY FILED THIS, SO THEY OBVIOUSLY WANT TO SEE IT DONE. WE WANT TO SEE IT DONE CORRECTLY, AND WE WANT TO SEE IT DONE RIGHTLY. SO I WOULD URGE THAT ALL OF US GET TOGETHER. I'M AVAILABLE. I KNOW YOU ARE. I KNOW THE RESIDENTS MET LAST NIGHT, SO WE CAN BRING THIS TO CONCLUSION SO IT DOESN'T DRAG ON FOREVER IN A MANNER THAT'S A CORRECT MANNER AND A GOOD MANNER FOR ALL CONCERN. I agree and I did speak in Frankis here today about this item so there will be we will set a public hearing meeting according to strategic planning that has to be in a council meeting. We're really reviewing what that language is right now to ensure that, but it seems as if the residents are meeting again with the developer and with strategic planning, and that's what we encourage. We were able to amend the green code to what the residents asked us for and worked together there, and this entire council approved that. So at the end of the day, as you said, there will be development there. I think that is understood by the residents. But I think that the way it happens is very important. And so thank you for joining together to make this happen. Thank you. I just had one brief question of Ms. Gordon in the Law Department. The item says that your honorable body is requested to approve the sale of 240 and 260 Lakefront Boulevard by the City of Buffalo Urban Renewal Agency to Lakefront Boulevard LLC, the developer. My question to the law department, does this require a simple majority or does it require two-thirds vote? Karen Gordon, Assistant Corporation Counsel. I am not certain. I would have to double-check. We can go safely and do the two-thirds vote. I would say that would be best. And then I can always double-back and confirm with you. Has it always said in the charter that the sale of real property in the city of Buffalo is two-thirds vote? But this Buffalo Urban Renewal Agency, there might be a wrinkle to it. Absolutely. That I'm not 100% aware of, but if we sell property to anybody, it's two-thirds vote. And you're totally correct because one of the reasons, we normally do not have a public hearing in a council meeting. It is by regulation that because it's coming out of that agency. It requires a council hearing, but that's why we're looking into the language. Right. Yes. Thank you very much. All right. Anything else on that item? All righty. Thank you. Next item. 6 Broadway designated developer agreement help development Corp motion to send a CD second by council member the Lombard 7 report sale 43 Empire motion to approve item 7 through 10 second by council member Wingo I am 11 report sale 99 Rodney motion to send a CD item 11 and 12 Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 13, report of sale, 647 Woodlawn. Motion to approve items 13 and 14. Second by Councilmember Frioletto. Item 15, 2017-2018 second quarter gap sheets response. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item 16, certificate of necessity transfer funds, 45,000 city hall improvements. Motion to receive and file items 16 and 17. so my customer going back to maintain capital debt management policy motion is sent to finance second by council member white and 19 notification cereals motion to approve no motion we're seeing about second by councilman white I'm 20 2018 black pruning motion to approve items 20 through 30 seconds if you all could turn up that mic for me motion I'm sorry second by president protein I'm 31 a point assistant filtration plant operator motion to send civil service items 31 32 and 33 second by councilman Fontana who has floor I want to be in the court in the negative on the block pruning five hundred thousand dollars to prune trees in my opinion is too much money so that's item number twenty twenty All right, so you want to be recorded in the negative on item number 20? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Next item. Item 34, drug acid forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to approve items 34... 36 say my customer for your letter I'm 37 food store license 2289 Fillmore motion to send the legislation say my customer for your letter 38 food store license 245 Ontario motion to approve say my customer go on back and 39 property manager license Daniel Reager motion to send legislation say my councilmember window and 40 auction scrap of vehicles Motion to approve items 40 and 41. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 42, item returned without approval or disapproval. Motion to approve items 42, receiving file item 42 through 46. Seconded by Councilmember Frioletto. Item 47, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send the legislation. Civil service. Civil service. Civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba. Item 48, liquor license application. Motion to receive and file. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WYATT. MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS. ITEM 49, APPEAL PRESERVATION BOARD DECISION 21 MAYFARE. MOTION TO SEND THE LEGISLATION. SECOND BY PRESIDENT PRUTO. ITEM 50, PETITION FOR ART 78, ORDER AND JUDGMENT. MOTION TO SEND TO CIVIL SERVICE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WYATT. ITEM 51, DEC BROWNFIELD CLEANUP 166 CHANDLER. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FILE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GOLUNDE. ITEM 52, NOTICE OF INTENDED COUNCIL AS LEAD AGENCY FOR 229 ELK. MOTION TO SEND THE LEGIS 53 Northland Corridor Working Training Center complaint. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Wingo. Yes, this item here was a late file. We just got the email this morning that was an item that was sent to the governor and all of the state agencies as well as the local government mayor. And I believe it was sent to all nine councilmembers. Being that this is in my district and that the... executive director CEO of the workforce training center at this point has not you know had an opportunity to explain some of the concerns in this complaint believe it'd be befitting for us to have him come in next week during the CD and explain what the community is believing to be or what they've expressed to be discretion not discussion but Discriminatory, yes, practices regarding the location of the training center and some of the... Everything escaping me today, Mr. President. But I'm trying to get through this because we've been... So many requirements, I know you were talking about that. Yeah, so we want to make sure that everyone who needs to be there is there next week, Tuesday, so that we can actually speak to this item, which is a complaint regarding the... discrimination allegations on this item. I'm going to leave it there, Mr. President. It's all right. It's fine. I think I'm just ready to leave. I think that's it. All right. That's it. Next item. Item 55, 3199 Main Street Concerns Restaurant Dance License. I'm sorry did we do 54 54 letter of intent major site plan 229 out for 27 out 85 Lee 98 Maurice that is receiving file thank my councilmember why I I asked if we had passed by item 54. I don't recall. What's the item that we just called? Right, you just called. Item 54. Which is the receive and file. No, item 54 is marked for legislation and the planning board. Is this the Romanowski letter of intent? Yes. The problem was receiving and file because the application had not been determined to be complete, so we refiled. All right, I'm going to defer to Corporation Counsel, who is our legal counsel on this matter, and I want her to opine on it and give us an opinion. All right, let me control this meeting, please. Please, Corporation Counsel. Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon, this item should be sent to Legend City Planning Board. Okay, so we don't have to, I know the application was incomplete, so we just have to send it to the register? I could explain. Okay. So what has, we've looked into it, and we have two sets of this application. We have a matter very similar to this that's in ledge right now. That one is the one we're going to receive and file. The new application that's here is supposed to be 118 pages. That's the one that we're going to move forward with, and that should be the one that we're referencing here now. Okay. Okay, so motion is sent to legislation. Sent to legislation, City Planning Board. So the motion needs to be first to rescind the receiving file. Second by Council Member Fontana. What's the motion before us now? Motion is sent to legislation. And City Planning Board? And City Planning Board as well. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Next item. Item 55, 3199, Main Street Concerns Restaurant Dance License. Motion to send to legislation. Second by President Pro Temp. Item 56, Statement for Sewer Issue at 79 West Winsphere. Motion to send to CD and BSA. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 57, My Brother's Keepers. motion to send to education second by councilmember wingo petitions item 58 adopt a reuse permit 1296 Delaware motion to send the legislation city planning board items 58 through 62 second by councilmember fear little committee civil service I don't want to point assistant auditor most to approve items 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 and 15 I just felt like talking. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 16, Notice of Appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Receive and file. Second by Majority Leader. Finance Committee. Item 17, report of sale 105, Husey. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 18, bond resolution, public art monument restoration. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Breakdown to 20. Approved 19 and 20. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Item 21, response to controller fire audit. 21 and 22 now, motion to receive in five. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Community Development Committee, item 23, report of sale 195 Victoria. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item 24, New York State Liquor Authority revoked 3148 Main Street. Motion to receive and file 24. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item 25, report of sale 216 Chelsea. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item 26, request to speak at committee meeting on parking issues. Motion to receive and file 26 through and including 30. Second by President Pro Tempore. legislation committee item 31 mobile food truck where is Benny C boat limited motion to approve items 31 and 32 second by a majority leader item 33 restaurant license Richie soul food motion to receive and file say my customer Fontana item 34 special use permit 1197 hurdle there are no objections motion to approve items 34 through 38 second by councilmember on Santa item 39 naming Bailey bridges after Sheriff Thomas F Higgins public hearing we discharged that for the purposes of a hearing and that's coming up in the resolution section or No. I think we've taken place. So it's in front of us. Yeah, this is through the public hearing right now, correct? Right, sir. So we have to set a public hearing? No, we do it now. Oh, so we want to open the public hearing. Correct. So I guess it's my committee, so I'll say motion open the public hearing. Motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Public hearing is now before us. Is there anyone to be heard on this item? Councilmember Scanlon? Thank you, Council President. I want to thank my colleagues for the previous support of this resolution. Sheriff Tom Higgins is a lifelong resident of the city of Buffalo and one of the most decorated law enforcement officers of his era. He served as both Erie County Sheriff and a Lieutenant within the Buffalo Police Department. Sheriff Higgins is a United States Marine having served in Korea and has been an incredibly active member of the community for the past several decades. At 88 years of age, he's still incredibly active still in the community and I think this is a tremendous honor that we're bestowing upon him so I ask for everyone's continued support today. I agree. I saw him recently at the christening of the ship. I couldn't, he knew my name. I barely know my children's name and he remembered and even talked about small times and I appreciate it. I appreciate him now and I appreciated him when he was there so thank you for that. Yes, Art Robinson, community activist. I worked with Tom Higgins on many, many things. Even after he went from the Sheriff's Department, he was still active in preventing crime in neighborhoods and all that. So I think this is a great honor for him, for all the years he's put in where he didn't get paid. He put it in because he cared. And that's the main thing about anybody. Absolutely. Council Member Fontana? Thank you very much. We do get requests to name things from time to time. And I always ask the person, what does the person we're naming for, what connection do they have to the building or the street? They have to have some type of connection. They can't just work somebody somewhere for 25 years and be a good guy that everybody likes. Because that's pretty much everybody. And then you're picking and choosing. So that's not the case here. The case here is Sheriff Higgins ably controlled the Sheriff's Department, ran the Sheriff's Department in a non-confrontational fashion. He patrolled the streets of the city of Buffalo, patrolled the streets of the county, and did a fantastic job doing it for over 16 years he did it for. And he took over for Sheriff Braun. So and also after he was sheriff, he stayed here in western New York. He didn't go to Florida. He's not California, sending us a letter saying, please name a bridge after me. This isn't coming out of the sheriff's family. It's coming out of the community. And that's really how this type of thing should work. It should come from the community. It should be in everybody's mind that it makes sense. And it should be for a gentleman or for a woman that has stayed in western New York well past their work years. Not that the people leave are bad, but they're not here. AND HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. HE'S A GREAT GUY. in a 1992 conference sponsored by then Vice President Al Gore on crime. I remember speaking about the DARE program. So when we were catching a plane back, there was a long delay at the airport, so I was sitting next to Sheriff Higgins. I didn't know him that well, but I got to know him quite well after two hours talking in the airport. And he told me about how he started as a beat cop in the city of Buffalo years ago. So he was very knowledgeable, very interesting to talk to, very friendly. And then I would deal with him when he was involved with the Naval Park. And I think the last time I talked to the sheriff may have been the dedication to Little Rock last December. So he's still very active, and I think it's a great dedication. Thank you, sir. So, motion to close the public hearing. Motion to close the public hearing. Seconded by Councilmember White. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 40, State Comptroller Audit of Six Units. There are no objections. Motion to receive and file Items 40 through and including 48. Seconded by Councilmember Friuletta. Resolutions, Item 63, Amend Chapter 28, regarding Cold War Veterans Tax Exemption. Motion to adopt. This is to adopt. All right, second by Councilmember Franza. Item 65, Civil Service Roundtable Representative. Motion is to approve. All right, motion is to approve, second by Councilmember White. Item 66, Creation of Community Advisory Body to Police Oversight Committee. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 67, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 12, Court of Ethics. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 68, provide active shooter training at City of Buffalo community centers, pools, and rinks. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Who has the floor? Thank you, Council President. Just in reference to item number 67, we've had several instances in the past where members of city boards have filed a lawsuit against the city of Buffalo while serving on the boards, and this ordinance amendment just lays out the manner in which we can remove people with regards to the code of ethics and prevents anyone from sitting on a city board from filing a lawsuit against the city of Buffalo at this time. I agree. Very good. Thank you. Item 69, Budget and Personnel Amendment, Budget and Management. Refer to Finance. Second by Council Member White. Finance, Chair. Oh, referring to Finance. I'm sorry. Which item? Item 69. Is that one you just read? Item 69. 69? Right. Refer to Finance. It could go to Finance. That's fine. Mr. Chairman, I just... This item came before us and it is a budget amendment. AND WE HAVEN'T. IT'S AN INCREASE, I THINK, ABOUT $6,000 TO $10,000 FOR THE NEW DIRECTOR'S POSITION. IT IS A BUDGET AMENDMENT. IT'S A FINANCIAL MATTER. EVEN THOUGH THE MAYOR GETS TO MAKE THE APPOINTMENT, IT IS A FINANCIAL MATTER IN TERMS OF THE INCREASE. AND I SPOKE TO THE CHAIR OF FINANCE COMMITTEE. I DEFERRED TO HIM AND WANTED TO KNOW WHETHER OR NOT HE WOULD All right. So he's fine with it, but was that the original? Okay. All right. Next item. Oh, the Councilman's Scam? I needed to address the previous item. We skipped it. We moved past it before I had a chance to address it. I was a little confused on whether you were talking about the other one. So the motion is revisit item number 68, right? Correct. Second by Councilman Fialetto as before. Thank you. You know, in the past 20 years, and especially since the tragic shooting at Columbine High School, we've seen some horrific mass shootings in this country. And unfortunately, we've seen the locations of those shootings kind of expanded, whether it be at concerts or shopping malls, movie theaters, things of that nature. And last week, there was a false alarm scare at one of the community centers in the city of Buffalo. And that got us thinking that in this day and age, it's no longer can we just hope that these things don't take place. We have to begin instituting strategies that prevent them from taking place and educating people on how to react to them if they do take place. So this resolution is asking that the Buffalo Police Department, and in particular the SWAT team, come out and... THEM. WE HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN IN THE COMMUNITY SINCE THE EARLY EARLY PARTNERSHIP AND WE WANT TO PARTNER UP AND COLLABORATE WITH THE PARKS DEPARTMENT AND GO OUT AND EDUCATE THE STAFFS AT OUR COMMUNITY CENTERS, OUR POOLS AND OUR RINKS ON HOW TO HANDLE THESE SITUATIONS SHOULD THEY ARISE. THESE BUILDINGS HOUSE SOME OF OUR MOST VULNERABLE CITIZENS, OUR SENIORS, OUR YOUTH, SOME PEOPLE FROM THE SPECIAL NEEDS COMMUNITY AND I THINK IT'S PARAMOUNT THAT THE PEOPLE WORKING AT THESE FACILITIES RE security guards and metal detectors and we received training from the SWAT team as well on how to handle these situations so I think like I said it's absolutely important that we get out there and educate those for the first line of defense in these centers and these pools and these rinks where our most vulnerable citizens are on a daily basis. I totally agree and actually that's what I was agreeing with you about was on the active shooter training and I read in Buffalo News this morning the comments comments come Councilman Buengo and others who felt that this was important. I totally agree. You know, we had training here, and what about in those places where we do see active shooters, especially around children? Good resolution. Can you add me to it, please? Yeah. Councilman Ringo? I wanna go back to a previous item, so if he's still thinking of this one, I will let him talk about this one. Yeah, I was very, very, very pleased when Council Member Scanlon brought this to caucus yesterday, primarily because we have seen a tremendous increase in horrific incidents across the country regarding the safety of our young people in school buildings and The fact that we have this scare on one of our community centers does, of course, let us know how much more work we need to do to make sure that our young people are safe and that people who are servicing our communities are safe. But I don't see representation from the Buffalo Public Schools here any longer, but this question was posed yesterday regarding the training for the district as far as Buffalo Public Schools is concerned to ensure that all teachers are aware of what their active shooter policy is and what the procedures are, as well as who's responsible for ensuring that these after-school programs are, who don't, who are not Buffalo Public School employees, they are responsible in fact the district is responsible for ensuring that these folks are receiving the same training as well now we're going to do our end and make sure that we're training the folks in all of our community centers but I think it's equally as important that we you know put some pressure on the Buffalo School District to make sure that they're training anyone who works or operates in the school about the active shooter training. And, you know, the issue has been coming up regarding arming teachers, which I think is ridiculous, because, again, I know we have staff here who's in active military right now, and you can train all day, but when the situation hits, your mind goes. In most cases, a lot of people forget the training, they forget a lot of the things that they do, and next thing you know, you have these people who are inexperienced in those tactical-type situations with firearms, and that makes the situation even more difficult. And then of course there was the situation where we have the students reporting about the one teacher who locked the children out of the classroom. And only six students were in the classroom. I don't want to give the specifics of the situation, but because there are allegations going on both sides. But if a teacher doesn't know the protocol, if the teacher thinks that they're following protocol by not allowing students back in the classroom that are locked outside doing an active shooter situation, then we have a problem. And I want to make sure that everyone, including, of course, naturally, the community centers, but I want to make sure that our schools are doing their due diligence and not just giving the teachers a two-hour in-service and saying this is what you do in case of an active shooter situation. But I want to make sure that everyone, including those people who are not employed by the school district, those after-school program directors and the staff are fully aware of what to do because they're still on school ground. They're fully aware of what to do in an active shooter situation. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. already customer why you had a request customer boy but number number 68 second by council members scandal before us that's what we we just came up that's what we just yeah so can we send that instead of approving that can we send it to finance as well Sorry. So you want to send 68? To finance. To finance. 68? Oh, I think I know what happened. This is the problem. The 122 journal, 68, is the active shooter. On the computer is Wyatt Budget. Do we have another journal since 122? those printed I can't watch the staff anybody 69 did we have another agenda that was printed that was I want to be accurate as because we've got to finish this meeting what happened on the floor all right so we add these on the floor this is kind of what happened so I greatly discourage adding these items unless it's very very time-sensitive on the floor because this is what happens all right so now the motion we took care of that so 69 is the Wyatt budget and all I'm showing is why So we, but it's that item that you want to say. Thank you. All right. Did I, I did a second on that already? Mr. Chairman, what was the previous motion to that item? Pardon me? It was finance. It was going to finance, and you're asking that it go to finance. So we had already approved for it to go to finance. Yeah, I think, like I said, the mix-up is in these numbers. So you heard an adopt instead of finance. Yeah, so I'm glad he brought it up so we make sure each item is going to the right place. All righty, next item. Item 70, Budget and Personnel Permits and Inspections. Motion to approve. Now, wait a minute. You called that... No. See, this is the problem. On here and what Jerry has, we've really got to pay attention to this, staff. What the clerk has and what we have in front of the council members are two different numbers. Now, because all of this is legal stuff, we've got to have these numbers correct. And when we amend on the floor, we've got to run this again. Now, you all can talk about procedure in a minute. We've got to run the meeting right now. So you have to come up with number 69. is again, Wyatt budget. And I don't have that in front of me on the paper. Budget and management? No, 70 is the budget and personnel permission and sections? Item 70 on MINITREC is civil service something. Item 70 is Wyatt's civil service procedures on hiring police officers. Correct. Is that what you read off? No. 70-1F budget and personnel amendments, permits, and inspection. Is that right? Yeah. Council Member Scanlon? I think the problem is I had a late file number 67, and that pushed all the other ones after a down one. Yep. So, Roe? Well, that's where the mix-up is. It's not earlier in the meeting, so you can correct it. You call the number, I'll call the item. So that we get this right, because I want to make sure everything is correct for the record. We don't want to have to have a special meeting and come back and redo something. So item 70 is before us, right? Yes, sir. Which is Wyatt Civil Service Procedures on Hiring. No. That's what's on minutes, right? Right. So now you're saying this paper here is what's accurate. Right. We're going off what we have in front of us right now. We're going off the paper. All right. If we're going to stay consistent, then we have to go off the paper, right? Yeah, we just want to be right. We don't care whether it's consistent. We're right, as long as we're right. So 70 is off of the paper so that the public who might be watching this ignore it. It's the budget and personnel amendment, right? Yes, sir, for permission and instructions. All right. Majority Leader Worcester, your pleasure. Motion is to approve. Thank you. So I'm receiving a no from Councilmember Wyatt. That's the Wyatt budget, that's supposed to go to finance. Both of those are going to finance. Both the Wyatt budget, personnel amendment, you want it to go to finance? Yes. Okay, motion to resend the previous motion. Motion is now to send to finance. It happens, you know, when you got computers and paper. As long as we get it right, that's what's important. All right. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Next item. Item 71, civil service procedures on hiring police officers and firefighters. Adopt the resolves remaining to civil service. All right. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. President. again received a number of individuals in the last couple of days that were disqualified and it's heartbreaking when you hear their story and I have a young man who is in the college one of Canisius College getting ready to graduate in May and he was disqualified from the psychological. And so, you know, we continue to hear these stories, and I know that we've put in, put notice, put the doctor on notice, 30-day notice, and we're going to be looking at this process. This is to look at this process. We can make that change because right up front we see that the doctor has been flawed, and for whatever reason. But when you hear the stories from these individuals like we did on Tuesday, you understand we have an obligation that a lot of people feel very strongly that they want to be a police officer or a fireman. And for us to not make sure we have a process that gives them that opportunity, this is about America. This is the American dream. You can be whatever you want to be. But if we have a process that's flawed, that individuals who have the ability Had this dream is lost because, number one, because of their age now, because it happened so many years ago, we have to fix that. And I made a commitment to make sure it's fixed because this young man who was said that he wasn't assertive enough, I think you go to college because you want something better for your life. But in his psychological set, he wasn't assertive. That's a flawed process. So I want to make sure that we look at this entire process to make sure every person that this is their desire to be a police officer, a fireman in the city of Buffalo gets that opportunity fairly, not because of one individual who has an arbitrary decision on someone's life that in many cases is just BS, to be honest with you. And I know it's probably not the proper word, but to hear these people last week, and the tears that were coming down their face, that they cannot be what they wanted to be. It can't happen again. So I put this forward so that we can start this process of re-evaluating this process to make sure it works. It has to work. We can't have another person come before us and say they lost an opportunity and they can't get that back. They can't get that back. So thank you guys for supporting this resolution. and we look forward to working with human resources and the law department to make sure that we have an airtight process that is written, that is not just objective, it should be written. We should know that when someone appeals that they will get a response within five days and that repeal will be responded to within 30 days. It shouldn't be something arbitrary. A lot of this stuff is arbitrary and that's the concern. Thank you, Mr. President. And I made a comment earlier that It's just time for change. Times change, processes change, people change. So thank you for that. Councilman Fontenot? Thank you. I received a phone call from Nick from Kysertown. He wanted to become a Buffalo police officer, but this very doctor said he was not fit to be a Buffalo police officer. He then went to the state, he's 25 years old, and he said, I'm going to be a state trooper. Well, guess what? He was passed at the state level. And other people have spent money to go to Albany to get tested. They were $400 for by the end of it, but they passed in Albany, failed in Buffalo. Now we're receiving phone calls, and I shared this with you last week, Mr. President, that the town of Lockport, or the city, I forgot which one he was at, probably the city because it's a common council, Council members in Lockport are now investigating this doctor for alleged favoritism. Alleged favoritism, saying that he got a phone call saying don't pass this person, this person, and this person. I don't know what happened, but that's what they're looking into. That's the allegation, that he was following the pressures from politicians. He's not doing that here. He's not doing anybody any favors here. He's not doing the people any favors. But it's a situation that has to be addressed, and I think this resolution is good. I'd like to be added to the resolution. Many of my residents have been calling, saying that they appreciated our comments on this item. If people do go to an appeal, it's a three-member appeal board. They submit their appeal in writing. They don't come in. They don't get a chance to talk like they did here in the chamber so eloquently. And as soon as Gigi mentioned, well, they didn't put that in the paper. They didn't put that in the paper. Well, guess what? People talk a little better sometimes than they write. They, they, uh, a little back and forth. You get the body language. It's like texting somebody. You don't know how they feel. But if you're talking to them, you hear the inflection. You hear the, the truth in their voice, and you can tell if they're, uh, a little off or not. You can't do that in a letter sometimes. And they're not off. These people are good, hardworking people that I think would be, um, good for the city of Buffalo in most instances. And if he picks one out, that he's supposed to, that's great, but it seems like he's picking everybody out. So we appreciate that. I'd like to see the interview process change, that the actual members that are appealing come in and speak to their item. Absolutely. And I think that's vital to this process. Thank you. Absolutely. Council Member Rivera? Mr. Chairman, after speaking with... the people that came here and listening to the meetings that you had along with Councilmember Rasheed Wyatt, it was determined that the process was flawed. If the process is flawed and we determine it, and now we've decided to terminate the contract after 30 days, what is the remedy for those people who went through the process that was flawed? And I'd like to also add to that, if the process is flawed and it's determined to be flawed, what is the remedy for those people that were here and those people that are going through the appeals process? Because I think at this point we've all come to the conclusion that it was flawed. It's safe to say, or else we wouldn't have said... let's terminate this contract. We don't do it without cause. So if there is cause, then we have a responsibility to talk about what are the remedies for people that have gone through something that has been flawed. They're coming to us, they're not giving up. We want our job, that's what we aspire to be. We aspire to be police officers, firefighters, and we've studied. And I got, I failed because I had a tear in my eye, or I failed because I am, um, I am arrogant. Or whatever reason, the person I met with yesterday who was walking the halls with his father who happened to be a Buffalo police officer and I worked with under my command, and he's walking the halls looking for his son i talked to his son kenesha's college graduate ub graduate and he says all he did was say he didn't drink and the guy gave him a chance if you don't change that i'm going to fail you because there's no way you don't drink i mean is that the kind of power that we and i don't know if he met with council members i know he found me in my office and he was walking through the halls And he mentioned a number of council members, and I don't know if he actually spoke to them. But if this is flawed, as I mentioned, then we need to look at the remedy as well to see if, I'm not saying there's a remedy, if there is a remedy based on what we've heard so far. So I'd like to see, I'd like to be added to that, but I'd also like to make sure that there's a remedy for this as well, for those people who have been failed for years. reasons that weren't justified I'd like to be added also comes from school thanks for several years I've been had serious concerns about the psychological exam that's administered during the hiring process I've raised concerns in the chambers before so I want to thank the group of residents who came in last voice their concerns over it. Obviously when you see some of these candidates come in you see their face you see the impact that it has directly on their lives it paints a very specific picture and hopefully because of them coming forward and everyone here now being on the same page we can hopefully rectify this situation so if possible I'd love to be at it as well. I agree. So we begin to look at that process, especially when we look at the appeals. I think that's so important. And then I think, and I know that there was a statement from the administration that they were already looking into what was best, considering there were new commissioners. So I think that the entire process, city government, you know, the council, the mayor's office on the same page of saying, let's look at something else to do something different. I think that what was interesting is last week, it could have appeared that all of the complainants were African-American. And that changed quickly. Because I'd say that that day, the next day, and I was showing someone today in my office, the phone rang and it wasn't just males. I have two females who called. I have men who have called. Latino. So this isn't, and again it could appear like that in the beginning because all of the persons came to speak to us were African-American males and to be very honest that's been the only ones that I've gotten calls from except one African-American female. And then afterward it became very clear that there were people of all races or at least two races, three, that felt the same way so I will say this this is not for me this is personal it's not about Whether the doctor is qualified, he may be truly qualified. This is just time for a change in the city of Buffalo for me. I don't know how others feel, but so it's just time to move on. And so that resolution that we already approved does start that process. It was unanimously approved. And we request a seat that we're able to appoint someone on the roundtable for the appeals. So that's where we're at there. All right. Mr. Chairman, I was just going to suggest, and I don't know, pointing a person to the roundtable. Perhaps it should be the person in charge of the Civil Service Committee because it is civil service. Can we have a discussion after? Not on the floor. Council Member Wyatt, just wanted to make sure that we're going to adopt the resolutions and send the rest to Civil Service? We adopt the resolved remainder to CD. What is it? Civil Service. Oh, Civil Service. Yes. All right. Thank you. Next item. 172, interim property owners. 72 is adopt, and is that 72 that you say? Yes, they're interim property owners. That's adopt and remain or CD or adopt and CD. And remain CD. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Who has the floor? Just got a couple of comments on this one. This was brought up because I found that after we transfer properties to during the interim process, in many cases these properties are not up to code. And these individuals who now have them, take their time to bring them up the code, this is going to urge them to make sure they bring them into compliance a lot sooner. Because again, they take the properties, they may be in poor shape, but we shouldn't give them a whole year to bring them up the code so that the individuals who are living there in many cases are not being threatened because of the quality of life because In some cases, the electrical is not proper, the heating is not proper. So this is a resolution to work with them to know so that they're aware that if there's issues, the resident can provide that information so that these properties are brought up as code sooner than later. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Next item. 173, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. Motion. motion to adopt item 73 and 74 and my cousin remember why an awesome of committee meetings regular committees Committee on Civil Service Tuesday March 13th 945 a.m. Committee on Finance following civil service committee on community development Tuesday March 13th 1 p.m. We on legislation Tuesday March 13th 2 p.m.. Special Committee's Committee on Education Saturday March 10th 1 p.m. We on finance Wednesday March 14th 11 a.m. Council members any announcements for your district I Councilmember Wingo. Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. We have our monthly stakeholders meeting March the 11th this Saturday at 830 at the Delavan Grider Center, 877 East Delavan, March 10th. Why does it say 11? Oh, all right. Let's do this again. March 10th, or they'll be coming Sunday morning. March 10th at 830 at the Eleventh Writers Center, monthly state gold remassing meeting. Thank you very much. All right, Ellicott District Council. will host second annual Stop the Madness basketball tournament Saturday, March 17th, 11 a.m., William Emsley YMCA. The championship will be on Saturday, March 24th at the Waterfront School. Participating districts are University, Lovejoy, and Mastin. any other councilman friends yes thursday march 15th new is the kickoff for the ever busy uh broadway markets easter season so see you all there all right the kickoff is on the way anything else from our reduced council staff just because yes you all just said you speak and you're gone all right then uh councilman revere by councilman scantling