Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Council Member Bowman.
 Present. Council member Farrelletto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Thank you. This is a special session called by the Common Council to interview and possibly confirm the mayor's appointments of commissioners.
 I want to thank everyone who's here, our council members who agreed this week to be here. Just want to be very clear on the process because some, um,
 may not understand that the mayor makes a suggestion or the administration to this council of his cabinet of the commissioners. It is not guaranteed that the commissioners will be confirmed today if a majority of the council either has more questions or wants it to go to civil service for any number of reasons.
 I am not always thrilled of the process, but it is the process that we have inherited. So I want to make that very clear. The second thing I want to make clear is that some of the persons who have been sent to us, council members have not had an opportunity to meet with. So there will be questions on this floor. And at times it may seem that, you know,
 Someone is asking a lot of questions, but it's because these are very important appointments of those who will do the day-to-day operations of our city. I was asked to have this meeting as quickly as possible, and in cooperation with the administration, we are conducting this meeting.
 If I really had my way, I would have waited so that we had time off of the floor to talk with commissioners who we either have not met, to talk with commissioners who we have not met.
 or who we had questions for. But because we have not had that time, and because I wanted the administration to be able to do the people's business as they requested, we are here today. So it may be a little more lengthy than normal because, again, we have not had the chance to meet. So we do welcome you into the chambers.
 We will go forward with the agenda and we will do all of the swearing in of those who will be confirmed if they are confirmed at the end so that we're not starting, stopping, starting, stopping. And then I know that the mayor has a ceremonial swearing in afterward. But the signing of the book and those things, because the council is an independent arm of the government.
 So because there is a slate sent to us, it is not a rubber stamp. And I think that's so important that our public and our people and folks in the chambers understand that. If we have nothing else, we're going to begin the agenda. Item number one, call for special session.
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fairlotto. Item number 2, appoint members to Citizens Advisory Committee on reapportionment. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski, and this is so important because this is about the redrawing of
 the district lines. The council has already picked their appointees and now this is the appointees that will come from the mayor, that have come from the mayor by the council adopting this, that committee will begin meeting immediately as soon as possible.
 Item number three has been withdrawn. We'll go to item number four, appoint commissioner of permits and inspection services. Item's open. All right. This item is open on comment on three, just so that we will not be interviewing a commissioner of parking today. So I would assume the administration will let us know who will be in charge of parking or whether the commissioner who is there now will continue to be in charge and we'll wait for that information.
 All right, we are at item number four. Is Ms. Amdor here? And if you'll state your name for the record, although I just said it, and you can start with your opening statement. Good morning, Honorable Blatty. Good morning, Council President Pritchett. Thank you for inviting me here today to appear in council chambers with all of you.
 I am excited and grateful that Mayor Byron Brown selected me to serve as Commissioner of the Department of Permit and Inspection Services, and I respectfully seek your approval for the appointment. I'm happy to answer any questions and concerns that you may have. I've served a number of roles in city government since 2015, following my experience in the private sector in engineering.
 As Deputy Commissioner, I have served a major role in technology and best practices so that we could modernize the department regarding our use of technology. My work with the online permitting system and the plan review system that's online helped with the continuity of services during the pandemic so that we could continue to serve the public and businesses.
 Under retiring Commissioner Comerford, I was instrumental in working with MIS to make sure that all our inspectors have laptops with connectivity in the field so that they have real-time data when they go into properties and they can enter their data in real-time.
 These are just a couple examples of how I am constantly evaluating our department, looking for areas that we could improve, be more accountable, offer cost savings and efficiency to the public, and that will continue. I am so grateful and honored to be here today, and I look forward to any questions I may answer for you. Council members? Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much. Just a question regarding
 um the continued services it it's a department where people that are opening up businesses and need approvals go to and i think they've improved the process to streamline it to move the approval process along quickly because time is money
 for those people, developers, people that are rehabbing and fixing. And sometimes there's a process, whether it's electricians, whether it's plumbers, whether it's police, that have to go to these different locations and...
 I think it's improved. I remember there was a problem with it in the past where if somebody was on vacation, it would take longer for the approval to get done. And these people are paying on lease agreements and they're paying on mortgages and time is money to them. Absent any problems with regards to public safety, I could understand that or a legal issue.
 But absent that, the process should move along fairly quickly. And maybe you can explain how that has been improved or you plan to improve it even further to make sure that the approvals are done as quickly as possible, absent any legal or safety issue.
 uh we just want to make sure that it's streamlined uh so when people come to city hall it's user friendly whether it's online or in person that it's user friendly that they're in and approvals are done where where it's permitted can you speak to that absolutely thank you councilman so i'm gonna i'm gonna address that in a couple ways
 Just yesterday afternoon at four o'clock, a gentleman came in and needed a certificate of compliance so he could have beer with his restaurant that's been around for many, many years in our community. And the new permitting inspector who was working with him, he didn't have anyone around to help him and he didn't know how to do that.
 And he came to us and said, does anyone know how to do this? I sat with him. I wrote the permit for that gentleman so that he didn't have to come back. I hold myself to a very high standard. I hold our people to a very high standard. And that happens with leadership. It will continue to improve as time goes on.
 Additionally, we are evaluating all of our processes and looking at ways to improve and better serve the public. And that will absolutely continue, not just within our department, but how we work throughout City Hall with OSP, with the city clerk's office and everyone else. So we can streamline that and help business owners and property owners. Council Member Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wish I hadn't had an opportunity to give my remarks before Kathy gave her response to Councilmember Rivera, because the first time I met Kathy was at a clean sweep, and she was very hands-on and direct with the constituency of the City of Buffalo then. She has then...
 improved all of the systems that I could think of in that department. And I am very thrilled that she's receiving this appointment or as you say, suggestion of appointment for this particular position. She has been very responsive to me. I,
 One of the things that I try to make sure that I do is stay in contact with all of the commissioners so that if any constituent in the Mastin District needs anything that is beyond the scope of my office, I know exactly which commissioners are going to call, who to text, and they respond all throughout the day. I'm pretty sure there's not a commissioner in here that I've not texted at any given time, and they've all responded.
 But Kathy has really stepped in and stepped up and is very responsive. And I believe that same philosophy that she has with council members will be extended to the population as she's been very active in even the clean sweeps. Now, this is not to anyone else's denigration who has ever held a position before her, but this is the first time.
 I had ever seen a commissioner or deputy at a clean sweep in Maston District. And I was very refreshed because at that time, I did not know who she was.
 And then when I found out, when I was informed of what she was going to be doing, I was very, very much impressed at her professionalism and her presentation at these clean sweeps. So with that being said, when we do get to the vote for the Commissioner of Permission and Inspection Services, I'll be voting in the affirmative. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Council Member Golomba.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I had the pleasure to meet with Kathy yesterday. I sort of surprised her down in the office, and I think I spent about 30, 35 minutes with her talking to her about the inspections department, and I gave her a little bit of a history of the issues that I've had with that department going back 20-some years, good and bad.
 The one thing that I shared with her, and I was very, very impressed with the entire conversation, but especially one aspect of it, I think of all the departments in the city of Buffalo, that the Department of Permits and Inspections is that department that can be so proactive.
 We call 911 because there's been a shooting or a problem after the fact, and we want the police to show up and address that. We call 911 when there's a fire to get the Buffalo Fire Department there. Once again, it's reactive. The one thing in the inspections department is that they can be very, very proactive. And...
 You know, when I was sitting down with her yesterday, I was very, very impressed with the breadth of knowledge. I expected it to be honest with you though, because I've dealt with her over the past several years and been very, very impressed with her. But I think that the important thing is that, you know, the willingness for all commissioners and in particular for the department
 of permits and inspections to be able to work with this council because each of us as council member wingo said and i'm sure my other seven colleagues are as well um we're all very hands on to very varying degrees in our district and you know there's no one that knows north overall as well as i do or niagara as well as uh mr rivera or whatever our respective
 districts are. So I'm going to be voting in the affirmative. And just a funny, quick little funny story. I knew Kathy for several years off and on, but during the summer we worked on the 308 Crowley building that you all were so very, very helpful with me. And so we were at a press conference and she came over with a sheepy little smile on her face and said,
 I'm told that you'll be calling me all the time. Well, unlike Mr. Wingo, I promise I won't call in the middle of the night. Mr. Comerford used to answer me at 2-3 in the morning, but I've gotten away from that bad habit unless it's an absolute emergency. But I'm ready to vote yes for her as well. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair, I have worked with Kathy since I was a staffer in the Common Council staff and working on constituent casework and Kathy has always been so wonderful to work with when it comes to constituent casework because sometimes our constituents have language barriers and sometimes city hall at times can be inaccessible and to others and Kathy was the first to, you know, help work with me as a staffer through some of those issues.
 and even as she rose to deputy commissioner and I was a council member, she has no problem hopping on the Zoom and talking about the intricacies of, you know, lead abatement or some of the new rules that come down and that humble and humble character will serve us well. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to say Kathy has shown me from day one, I think her first day on the job, she had came to a community meeting in my district regarding Millicent Homes. And, you know, I was very much impressed with her, how she jumped in and not how she responded to me, but how she responded to the residents.
 I think that for me, when we talk about leadership and these commissioners, it's not so much that, hey, the council member calls you and you respond. It's about the residents who pay your bill, who give you a check, how do you respond to them? She's right on point with that. I know she gets numerous emails from my office and my district, and she's not afraid to call the resident and talk to them and engage them.
 She has some pretty big shoes to fill, Commissioner Comerford and Mr. Petrucci. But I am enamored by her leadership style. People don't know I'm paying attention to your leadership. I'm not just listening to what you say. And we were in a meeting a couple of weeks ago and she had two of her supervisors there and she yielded to them. So I'm going to let them respond. And so you don't have to act like you know it all.
 but i do want to make sure that you can tap into your team to get the result that we need for our residents so i'm absolutely in support of her because again i seen her in action you know some folks as you stated we haven't talked to i've not seen them in action i may have seen them on tv but how do you engage the ordinary public not just a council member and so that's really important for me so i absolutely um support this young lady and and during women's history month
 Absolutely support it because I don't know if we've ever had a commissioner of inspections that was a female, but I look forward to supporting you and making certain that we address the issues of our residents. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Anyone else? Council Member Scowler. Thank you, Council President.
 and I know everyone has kind of said the same here, and I don't mean to beat a dead horse, but whether it was Ms. Hamder serving as supervisor of new construction or engineering in the Department of Public Works, she's always handled herself with incredible professionalism. And as some of the council members have mentioned, is not afraid to dive right in, deal with the public as well as anyone else. So she is gonna be an incredible addition to that department.
 As Council Member Wyatt said, the outgoing commissioner is someone we know who was always available, always here, always accessible. And I believe that his successor is going to be the same. So I will be voting in the affirmative as well.
 Councilmember Bowman. Thank you, Council President. I just want to chime in and say I've had the same experience with Kathy over the years in all of her capacities with the City of Buffalo. She's been responsive, very professional. I look forward to working with her, particularly and especially to start addressing some of the blight that's allowed to exist in our neighborhoods. That's something I really want to focus on. There's some ideas already on the council, but I want to look at, you know,
 getting to the root of some of these problems where slumlords have been able to leave blight in our neighborhoods, leave problems for neighbors. And so I'm looking forward to working with you to addressing that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Just wanted to share that I did meet with Kathy a few weeks ago on a legislative issue and it was very refreshing. We sat down with several others and she was just sort of rolled up her sleeves and said, let's figure this out and let's work on it. And
 come up with a solution as her predecessor was also the same way to roll up his sleeves and come to solution. So I really, I look forward to working with her in the future and I will certainly be voting in the affirmative. Thank you. All right. Anyone else? Just a couple of questions and then we'll move on it seems.
 We know that you report directly to the administration, directly to the mayor. I think what has been so important, at least in the time that I've occupied this seat and occupied because I'm still a council member, is that relationship. And obviously you have built those relationships. So that's a great way to get started. Your predecessor did the same exact thing.
 One of the things that has been, and I've said it over and over, is about hearing about larger issues on the news from council members. And at times that has occurred in all departments. What are your thoughts on how to keep the council informed on larger issues so that when we wake up in the morning or in the afternoon and there's a press conference about something in our districts that
 is of public interest of keeping this council informed.
 Absolutely. I think it's important to always have communication. I think most of the council members here have my cell phone number. If you don't, I will give it to you. And I contact you, maybe not as often as you contact me, but quite often and share that information because we both need to know what's going on in your districts. We don't know who's going to have that information first.
 So I think it's a one-on-one relationship that is built and nurtured with both the council members and their staff and our staff, the folks that work with me every day too, so that we keep that communication going. We, all of us here, have in our hearts that we want to serve the people of Buffalo. I couldn't think of a better job in the world than making the city we live in a better place.
 And speaking with all of you, I know you all have that in your hearts too. So we work together and do that and communicate frequently and about all issues.
 And I don't expect for you to have to call all of us. It's a lot of us. But I think that somebody on the staff and at times, if that's what you felt like doing. But I think that that's so important because what happens is I'll get a news agency call me on an issue and.
 sometimes I'd say, I have no idea what you're talking about. I think that we work better when we work together. Agreed. When information flows, I always say there's elections and when elections are over, people want you to govern. They don't want you to keep running an election. They want things to happen. I think that that's very important. Anyone else? All right. Majority Leader.
 Motion is to approve. Motion is to approve. Roll call. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Leto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Kathy Amdor. Council Member Nowakowski? Kathy Amdor. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Kathy Amdor. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Kathy Amdor. Council Member Wingo? Yes, for Kathy Amdor. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Congratulations.
 all at once, I guess. And that was second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Next. Item number five, appoint Commissioner of Police. Item's open. This item is open, and we have a deputy here who is now being named in advance of
 Please state your name for the record. Joseph Grimaldi. You have the floor for opening statement. Thank you. Thank you, Common Council President Pridgen and all of your members for the opportunity to appear before this honorable body. I am incredibly honored to be nominated by Mayor Brown for the position of leading the Buffalo Police Department. The department where I have dedicated my entire adult life as a public servant, working alongside many hardworking women and men, both sworn and civilian.
 I am hopeful that you agree that my 25 years on the police force and the higher education and additional training that I have successfully obtained have given me the foundation, experience, and resources to lead the police department with integrity and professionalism. During my time rising through the ranks of Deputy Commissioner, I'm proud to have been a leader in the department's anti-crime and public safety efforts and initiatives that have benefited our community.
 That includes my role in helping with the continued expansion and installation of surveillance cameras and other technologies, implementing numerous effective strategies that have helped our hardworking officers to remove a significant number of illegal guns off of our streets.
 implemented group violence interruption strategies to reduce shootings through the development of a successful community custom notification program, as well as employing data-driven analysis to deploy resources focused on those that are driving the violence in our community. Developed a comprehensive statistical crime data report to identify crime patterns and trends and the purchase of and implementation of tasers and body cameras to name a few.
 It also includes the deployment of specially trained behavioral health team consisting of police officers paired with mental health professionals to respond to mental health crisis situations. My first and most important commitment to you is that I will continue the work that Police Commissioner Byron Lockwood maintained as a top priority, ensuring that all of our hardworking police officers are community police officers.
 A vital component in crime prevention is a robust partnership between the community and our police officers to build trust and safety. With your approval.
 As commissioner, I would work day and night to build more bridges between our diverse Buffalo Police Department and our community so that all of our residents, businesses, and visitors have the utmost confidence that we are an increasingly safer city. I look forward to the opportunity to continue to work with every member of this honorable body. I thank you for inviting me here today and I'm happy to answer any and all questions. Council Member Wingo. So before I ask my first question,
 I do want to preface my entire statement with before the fact that we knew that Joseph Grameglia was going to be suggested to be appointed as the commissioner for the Buffalo Police Department. Joe and I sat down. We've sat down a few times, but this was recently, maybe about a month ago. Joe and I sat down and we had coffee and we just had a conversation.
 And I posed the question, then who in their right mind would want to be in his position at that time and or even a police commissioner during a time like this? A day where there is tension between community and police, a day where people are losing more trust in the police than they're losing in the government.
 a day where it is not going to be easy to regain that trust and to reestablish relationships. And then we sat, we talked about theories. We talked about diversity and inclusion. We talked about evidence-based practices. We talked about all these things on an academic and educational level, because we both have our Master's of Public Administration, both from Buffalo State College.
 But at the same time, we talked about all those things. But what really impressed me the most is what he stated when he first began speaking. And that was he has dedicated his entire adult life to trying to make the city of Buffalo safer. That shut down the entire conversation. At that point, I enjoyed the rest of my coffee and my muffin. He enjoyed the rest of his coffee.
 And I believe Joe when he said that he is here to try to make Buffalo a better place. Because at that point in the conversation, it went from an academic intellectual level conversation to just two fathers, two husbands, two men speaking to each other about the things that we would like to see in the city of Buffalo. I am convinced.
 Very convinced that Joe will make a great Buffalo police commissioner and again it's not that I'm singing the praises of all of these people coming before us today but again like I've stated, I've already established relationships with them, and I know the person behind the title.
 and he is more than just a commissioner. He is more than just a police officer. He is a resident of the city of Buffalo that is concerned and cares about where he lives and the city that his children have to be raised in. So I am going to be voting in the affirmative for Commissioner Joseph Gramaglia, and I would hope that
 uh uh we all realize when we do begin to and if we do begin to question him that he is well aware of the gargantuan task that besets him so thank you mr chair and thank you joe for even accepting the nomination for such a difficult job thank you
 Thank you, Mr. President. I've also had the good fortune of knowing Joe for many, many years. I never worked directly with him because the districts, I think, will you see this? Bravo. Bravo District. So I didn't deal as much because D, all of my district is in D District. But I know that whenever I had dealt with him, it was always professional and exemplary. You know, one of the things...
 that I want to mention is that over the years, I have worked closely with Commissioner Duranda, Commissioner Lockwood and the police department. And there was not a lot of fanfare over some of the things that Mayor Brown and this council did
 together as individuals and as a council. But remember, we had gotten rid of the chokehold prior to 2020. We had changed tactics in SWAT prior to 2020. There were already changes that were being made. And I know that people are very frustrated and they want more than incremental changes. They want revolutionary changes. They want drastic changes. They want emergency changes.
 But the reality is, is that, you know, the Buffalo Police Department has been fortunate to not have some of the major problems that other police departments across the country have had one is one too many period, you know, end of discussion one is one too many.
 And, you know, I know that in the previous administrations, we have weeded out where there have been problems. There was an officer in my district that attacked someone while they were handcuffed who ended up losing his position. So things like this have happened.
 I am sure, based on the conversations that I've had with Joe, that this will continue, that best practices will continue, that there will be a policing of the police, and that that will continue. And I didn't really go into detail with him on this, but there's a couple of things that I've been learning.
 working on, and I'm not looking for a commitment at this point, but I just want to share with him. Staff has been looking up some of the best practices of other police departments across the country. And I would hope in a generic sense that Joe would be willing to sit down with me. In particular, we've been looking at some martial arts stuff that has been taking place across the
 Once I have that information, I would hope to be able to sit down with Commissioner Grimalia and share that information with him and see if there's a way that we might be able to address that.
 together the same way that Commissioner Durenda and I worked on the SWAT team and et cetera. So I guess I'm just looking for a yes, Joe. Yes, absolutely. Okay, he's got my vote. He had it beforehand based on my previous conversations and working with him, but I just want to make sure that that relationship continues to move forward and we continue to do best practices.
 And, you know, in particular, you mentioned the community policing. You know, I think that that is so very important. You know, we've gotten to a point where, unfortunately, because we live in a world of automobiles, you know, the officers are going from point A to point B, and we've lost that trust.
 common touch that there used to be in neighborhoods. I remember when I was a kid back in the 70s and 80s, we knew who the police officers were in the neighborhood. And I never got in any trouble or anything, but we knew who the cops were because they were out and about. And then it changed as the precincts changed, as we got five districts rather than the numerous precincts. So I'm
 But I'm gonna be in the affirmative and I look forward to working with the police department under Commissioner Grimali. Council Member Scabin. Thank you. Deputy Commissioner, I think I'm not overstating it when I say everyone in this room understands just how important the role of police commissioner is. And I think one of the most important aspects of that position is communication.
 And by communication, I mean both internally within the department with the command staff, chiefs, captains, lieutenants, all the way down to the police officers, but also externally.
 with the public and not just via press conferences and things like that, but out in the community. And I was thrilled to hear you talk about community policing and building bridges. I'd love to see officers out walking around the neighborhoods as Council Member Glombeck mentioned. Could you touch on some of your philosophy when it comes to communication and how you'll be integrating communication and your style of communication within the department?
 It's absolutely vital. We don't work in a vacuum. We have command staff. We have supervisors at various levels that have a significant amount of information to offer right down to our police officers who are out there doing the job out on the street and have significantly more information than we have internally. I've already instituted an intelligence briefing on a weekly basis
 using our intelligence lieutenant that's going out to the district level and actually meeting with our detail officers to share what we have and to pull in what they have. The districts are all coming together so that they're talking amongst each other. I had my first staff meeting yesterday as the interim commissioner, and one of the first things I stated to all the command staff, which was chiefs and some captains,
 is that decisions will have to be made. And ultimately, I would have to make those decisions if you put me in that position. But I want us to be making these decisions together. I want to be the most informed. I want, through the chain of command, I want you to hear from your officers. And if we make a decision and it's not working well, I want to hear that. I don't want to just hear that it's not working. I want to hear why. And I want to hear some input on how we can make it better. Okay.
 The officers ultimately are the instruments of those decisions and we need that feedback. So I believe that in a strong communication philosophy, and that goes with the residents as well, community meetings. When I was the chief of B district, I instituted a different style of our community meeting where.
 We had one meeting one month in our district house. And then the next meeting, we went out to a location to be picked by one of the community members. And we went out to the place of their choice. So every other month they called it, we went on a field trip. And that way it made it easier for some of the residents in some of those areas of my command to get to that meeting that they may not have been able to get to the downtown district. So that's, it's a, it's a strong philosophy of mine.
 Thank you. The other topic that I think is vital to the department is training. You and I had a long meeting yesterday. We talked about a bunch of different things. And one of the topics was training. And that goes for the officers, lieutenants, captains, all the way up. Can you talk about your philosophy on training and how it's implemented, how much of it is implemented?
 Let me start by saying that I was the very fortunate recipient and I will, you know, forever be grateful for commissioner Lockwood to allow me to attend two very significant trainings that our department has not sent anybody to, and probably the better part of 25 years. I was able to attend the FBI's national executive Institute, a three week executive level training. And I was also able to attend the police executive research forums and
 senior management training. There's a time commitment to that, and it is vitally important to develop our future leaders
 We need to start sending our chiefs and our captains. And we've tasked our captains over the last couple of years as duty officers being essentially the watch commanders over the city with these types of management training. There are contractual constraints that we are hopefully going to work through that will allow those captains without having a significant impact on overtime because they are not local trainings, they are away and and there are weeks.
 They take weeks of time, and that obviously would come with a big expense, but I am hopeful that we can come to some kind of an agreement to start sending these captains to these leadership trainings. The National Academy, the FBI National Academy, is 10 weeks long. It's a significant time constraint, but what you get back, it pays dividends and benefits.
 you learn the best practices, the latest trends. You have respected leaders in the field coming in and speaking with you, and you come back a different person. And the more people that we send to these senior management trainings,
 the more that they're going to buy into the most modern types of policing. And then we kick that down even further when they're in their briefings or whether meeting officers on the streets. As far as training to our officers, we have mandatory trainings that must be met by state requirements so those are happening, but then there are also additional trainings, we bring
 We brought in the police executive research forms de-escalation training called ICAT integrated communications assessment and tactics for de-escalation of situations. That's a 10 hour time block. We in the command staff and the training Academy went through a 12 hour train the trainer assessment in the beginning when they came in and we're pushing that out. It's time consuming. It's 10 hours, but we're working through that. We also brought in the,
 a duty to intervene training through Georgetown University with their ABLE training, active bystandership in law enforcement. That's an eight hour training on top of that. So there are going to be changes needed with our contract.
 in order to meet a more rigorous training schedule. But the better trained our police officers are, the better decisions they're going to make, the more professional we're all going to be, and the better the city will be. So I'm...
 Very big proponent in that, and we need to work through some things, but that is going to happen. Thank you. I think you have a very unique opportunity coming in here as police commissioner. One thing we talked about was the fact that due to a hiring freeze and things like that, the department's pretty young.
 And I think through the proper communication, the proper training, we have a very unique opportunity to, not that I don't believe the Buffalo department is incredible right now, but to take it to another level. And I, I wish you nothing but the best. And I hope you know that my door is always open to assist in any way possible to make sure that happens. Thank you. And likewise, council member Revere. Thank you very much. First of all, let me, um,
 congratulate Mayor for appointing probably the person that I think we all suspected was going to be appointed commissioner people asked or the news asked you know should they do a national search should they broaden the search to look for a commissioner and I said well they have people within the command staff I thought right now that should be considered for the commissioner's position
 who worked closely with Byron Lockwood under his command, who implemented many of the things that came from the community and this common council. And I look forward to continuing the work that we started. And I know that you were part of the implementation of many of the things, many of the training and all the things that you went through that started under Byron Lockwood.
 And we hope it continues, including the reforms that we discussed in the commission that was sent over to the governor's office, including the LEED program that is still in the law department. And hopefully the law department will let us know what the status is of the LEED program that the Common Council budgeted.
 I just want to thank you for what you said in the very beginning, that you felt every police officer should be a community police officer, that they should engage the community. That's where it starts. That's where the interaction starts.
 At the very beginning, when you get the 911 call, it's the front line that responds to each one of those calls. That's the interaction that goes on. And that is where you develop the trust. And that's where police officers become community police officers. You've gone up through the ranks as a patrol officer, lieutenant. I don't know if you've gone up through all the ranks, Captain? Captain. Captain, Chief Officer.
 So you've gone up through all the ranks and you've had to deal with a myriad of problems. Some of them are difficult problems. Some of them have to do with discipline. Some of them have to do with promotions.
 And some of them have to do with the deaths of police officers as well. So you've seen everything there is to see the misery that happens out in the street, the suffering that happens out in the street. You've seen it all because you worked it from the patrol all the way to where you're at.
 I'm glad you talked about community engagement. That's very important to us as council members, that you engage this community. We've done that through the resolutions that this council passed, whether the resolution for the Police Oversight Committee, which was a resolution, which I was appointed chair and worked closely with Commissioner Byron Lockwood and Commissioner Danny Duranda before him. There was an open-door policy
 and we had quarterly meetings. Will you commit to having those quarterly meetings? Absolutely, we have to be out front and present. Okay, and the other one was the police advisory committee that this council formed through resolution as well. We're looking to working with the police oversight committee
 on reforms, on raising the level of professionalism. And I say raising because I believe we have a very professional police department when we talk about raising the level of professionalism. So we want to make sure that the community is engaged going forward. And the command staff and the commissioner have worked closely with members of the police advisory board. And
 we want to continue to have that interaction between the community and the police department because I think that only foster trust and cooperation and information as well.
 Because if people don't trust the police department, they're not going to provide the information that the police department needs in many cases to solve many of the problems that are going on. So I hope you continue, and I believe you will, because that has been the pattern since I've known you, where you have engaged the community, you have left the district office, you have gone into the community, you have met with people, because I've been there with you.
 And I can assure you, and I don't see any change from that. So I'm looking forward to working with the Buffalo Police Department. As Common Council members, our job is to make sure that we allocate and we appropriate and we provide whatever it is you need in terms of manpower, equipment, and technology. And we'll continue to do that. I have confidence in you and your command staff, your other deputy, Deputy Lark,
 and whoever the next deputy is going to be. So I just, this is one appointment that I'm looking forward to. I think this is going to raise the level of professionalism. You know it because we've dealt with him as district and in the community. So thank you very much. I look forward to supporting you. Thank you, sir. Council Member White and then Council Member Fairlund. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I didn't get the fortunate opportunity to meet with the...
 interim or the deputy didn't have a chance to have the conversation that some have had. I wish I would have had because maybe some of my comments would have been able to be talked about in private. But since we're here, I'm going to ask the appropriate questions. With the unrest that we've seen over the last couple of years with police reform, the public has been crying out for better police engagement. And I think that with this appointment, that could have started. Right.
 You could have been before the community answering some of their questions. You seem like you're a community person from what I've heard, you're a community oriented person. I think we could have had a huge win with your appointment by having that conversation with the community before you came before us for your hopefully your approval.
 I think all the things that we've heard over the last several years starts in this conversation, and it seems as though we punted on it. The public should have been able to talk to you and have that conversation to see where your mind is on engagement, because we know that everyone is not satisfied with the police, the policing, and some of the policies. And so let me ask you this. Are you in support of a civilian review board?
 that not you, but a future commissioner may be reviewed and discussed and talked to before they're appointed? So there are some challenges with that. There is an advisory panel in this council. There's a police oversight committee. And when it comes to discipline, we are governed by our collective bargaining agreement with an arbitration system. There has recently been a court ruling. Oh, let me ask.
 I'm asking you, I'm not talking about the policies. I already know about the barriers. I'm very much aware of all those things that we've heard. Oh, we can't do it because of the state. I'm asking you.
 Would you be in support of a civilian review board? At this time, based on some of the research that I've done and what I've looked at, I'm not in support of a citizen oversight panel with the authority to invoke discipline. There's been a lot of research done on that. And as I said, from some other issues, I think there are a number...
 of avenues with which to handle disciplinary cases, seek input from various levels of the community. We have a significant investment in body cameras to follow what is happening, to be put out there, to see what we're doing. There's a lot of redundancies. The Attorney General's Office has also engaged with new laws that invoke policy
 powers over discipline within the police departments. There are mandatory reporting requirements for officers that have obtained a certain number, five or more complaints in a two, a two year timeframe. So there are a number of redundancies that would meet the same goal. Are you in support of police policing police? The state AG said police should not be policing themselves. I I'm in support of, of,
 Whatever is going to make us more professional, but ultimately we are responsible for ourselves. We have been held to a high standard. I hold ourselves to a high standard. I hold myself to a high standard of professionalism. I
 We'll be looking to get further training, investigator training and other tools necessary for our Internal Affairs Division. We doubled the amount of meetings that we have with Internal Affairs to review our files. We have the best technology and tracking systems.
 that is used widely across the country by all police departments and IA Pro and Blue Team. It is widely used by everybody to track what is happening. And again, I'll go back to the body cameras. We are no longer making decisions based on he said, she said information. We are able to look at the body camera and with the amount of city surveillance cameras, ring cameras, all the other surveillances that are out there
 we are able to see what is actually happening in a lot of cases that would either support the claim or exonerate the officer from the claim that is made as well. So there are, we have already submitted to the Attorney General's office. We are in compliance with their list of,
 names of officers that have reached a certain number of complaints. The number was small by comparison of our number of officers in our department, but we are in compliance with that order that came down. What do you think about your internal affairs unit? Some of the statistics and some of the information we've been getting from the media seems as though whenever there's an investigation,
 they're okay. They've not found that they've done anything wrong. Do you think that makes sense? What I think you have to look at is because a complaint is made, it does just like in the criminal system, it does not mean that the evidence is sufficient to support that claim. So we have instances where citizens come in and file a complaint and they either aid don't follow up again, which does not stop our investigation.
 We still go out and send our internal affairs investigators out to canvas for video to make numerous attempts. It's not just a, well, they didn't call me back. We're sending them out there to their homes, dropping letters at the door. We added a, an additional layer of a certified letter being sent to their home. We are, what I believe is going above and beyond in order to initiate that contact to make sure that, uh, uh, that.
 they are not coming forward for some other reason. Like I said, there are other avenues if they have some fear of coming into the police station. During the pandemic, obviously it shut down, but there's an internal affairs office right in this very building in City Hall. The Commission on Citizens Rights
 has an office that will guide individuals through that process. I have not had the opportunity to hear back, but I reached out to the executive director to make them aware of my interim status and my potential appointment, and to make sure that he has my number.
 So there are wide-ranging avenues to make sure that we are the most professional. And I keep going back to the significant investment that this very body here in the mayor's office made in body cameras. That's a game changer, and I'm wholly supportive of body cameras. Well, I'm going to be honest with you. It sounds to me that you're saying that nothing is broken.
 I didn't say nothing is broken. We are constantly looking at our internal affairs. We have those review sessions on a weekly basis where the commissioner, the deputy commissioner, sit in and ask them questions. It's like a case management review. What was done on that investigation? Where does it stand? I need you to go back out and do this. This is what I want to see next week. And it doesn't always wait for another week.
 There have been numerous times where Commissioner Lockwood, myself and Deputy Lark are going down into the Attorney's Affairs Office to follow up on a day's notice and where are we with this particular case? There are some instances where cases are being reviewed at the District Attorney's Office, which can significantly slow down the pace of the investigation, but we maintain constant communication with them or if it rises to the level of the US Attorney's Office. When those situation happens where there's
 a potential criminal investigation pending. We at that point are barred from conducting our own internal investigation due to Garrity protections provided to the officers, which then, they have other rights that are provided to them. So I did not say the system is broken. We are always looking to improve. And that's what our review process is all about is making sure that the investigation is going the way it should be going.
 We've had numerous claims to our claims committee regarding officers, in some cases, not following policy. We've paid significant dollars out. How would you address those type of issues, and how would you be measuring it? Number one, we have to look inside of ourselves. Are our policies not where they should be? And we have made changes to our policies today.
 I believe we have to be very reactive that in reviewing our policies, it's we've made significant changes. We have a fantastic new software system that city invested in called power DMS that allows us to get any policy changes and get them out to our officers in rapid fashion.
 where they have to electronically sign for those new policies that are created. Even if there's a small change in a particular policy, the officers will be sent that policy and they will have to sign electronically and that will come back and we can monitor who has yet not to sign that policy. Before that system was in place, we put the policy out and it was incumbent upon every officer and every supervisor
 to make sure that that policy was seen and that they are reading it and understanding it. But now with this electronic system that we've implemented, we can actually push that out and see who's read it, see who's signed for it, and see who is left to sign for it. And then we follow up with that. There's a warning system that comes back that tells us who else we have to make contact with.
 In the situations where policy has not been followed, sometimes those complaints come into us by way of the law department from the depositions that were taken, that then we open a case on that and we look into it. If a policy was not followed, that's where the investigation leads us. We will take disciplinary action on that.
 There's been a big issue with overtime and that's something that's near and dear to my heart because the more money that we spend in overtime, the less money we have to put out in our communities. And certainly I'm not saying that if there's an investigation, officers should cut because they can't go for 40 hours. But certainly it's something that has to be managed. How will you go about managing that overtime?
 So if we look back in 2019, we had an issue in 2018 with overtime that was presented to Commissioner Lockwood, and I believe that we made significant strides in cutting overtime. I think we dropped it significantly through better management and better oversight. And then, and I hate to keep blaming what everybody blames, but then the pandemic hit. And that caused a significant number of issues. But we also had...
 a rise in gun crimes. We had a rise in shootings, which led to more overtime, more time and investigations. We employed some strategies using state grants that also cost a significant amount of overtime to put our officers in positions to be at places using the most extensive real-time data to put them in a position to be at places where they're not able to do their job.
 where we can prevent crime. There are contractual obligations and minimum manpower staffing numbers. We saw a number of officers that were out on quarantine and were out sick because of COVID.
 contracting COVID, we had to meet those minimum standards. So every district chief is required on a weekly basis to send an overtime, a detailed overtime report from the captain to the lieutenants, to the officers. And what the reason is for that overtime is that minimum manpower, is it a late arrest? Was there a call that held them over? So we are constantly looking at that.
 And it's being looked at on a weekly basis of how we can manage our overtime. At this point, we are in the first two months of the year, we've made some significant progress in lowering our shootings. We hope to, and through, and it's not just on hope, but we hope through the work that our officers and what we're doing will drive that number down further, which will then have less cases that our detectives will have to follow up on.
 Would you be willing to hold a community forum
 for the community to come and meet with you and ask you pointed questions about how you will manage the police department? I am always open to communication. I think that's if anyone knows about me, I like to talk and I will talk. The measure of how we are doing as a police department, the measure of how I'm doing personally is the feedback from the customer and our citizens, our
 our visitors, our business people. They are our customers ultimately, and we have to interact with them. Well, I want to get a commitment from you that within the 90 days that you will hold that town hall for the community to come and hear from you and talk to you and ask you poignant questions. Would you do that, Commissioner? Yes.
 You call me and I will be there. Yes. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Frioletto. Thank you very much. I'm just going to be very brief. The first time that I worked with the current deputy commissioner on anything, was before you were deputy commissioner. I think you were a detective or captain. There was a significant increase in crime in a very concentrated area in the district. I remember I contacted you about it.
 There was a community meeting inside a person's home after hours and it was great. You were there with all the facts and data and addressed all the questions, concerns people had, told them what the plan moving forward was, and then moving forward in your career as deputy commissioner, it's been a pleasure working with you and I look forward to working with you as commissioner. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Golombic. Thank you, Mr. President.
 A couple of questions. You know, and I think that there's a misconception that is out there in regards to the police policing their own. And I think that it ends up getting basically a life of its own. I remember years ago, we had a shooting in my district where a police officer in Black Rock ended up shooting a individual who had attacked him. And the police,
 individual ended up being killed. And if I recall correctly, there were seven agencies perhaps that would have been called in after the Internal Affairs Department. I think the district attorney, the state attorney general, is that approximately correct? So the attorney general's office by statute now is mandated. They are officially contacted
 and brought in by the district attorney, not by the police department. That's the way the statute works. But yes, on any death, whether it be in custody or as it's dubbed at the hands of the police, by whatever manner that occurs, the Attorney General's Office comes in and conducts a parallel investigation that then working with our internal affairs, but our homicide squad, but they ultimately handled their part of the investigation, yes.
 Okay, and some of some of my colleagues might remember this, because I believe it was around budget time. And we had individuals who came into room 1417, and ultimately took over the room. And they demanded that we fire the police officer and they attacked some of the members of this honorable body, myself included, for being in the back of the Buffalo Police Department, so on and so forth.
 And the response that I gave was due process. There is a due process, you know, and there is a process that we follow, whether it is beginning with the Internal Affairs Department or the FBI or any of the other agencies that oversee or can oversee the police department in the city of Buffalo. Um, but.
 But my, and that was a point that I was trying to make before is that, you know, thank God Buffalo has not had some of the issues that other municipalities have had. And after due process, I mentioned the police officer that was from my district that was let go because after due process,
 You know, he was found to be guilty of going after, I forget the exact thing, whether it was somebody's civil rights or whatever. And I think that, you know, I can speak for myself that I always support due process. I support due process for the victim, for the alleged criminal, for the police officer. And once again, going back to that time in 1417, there was a demand that this council
 fire the police officer and we don't have that authority. And I think that, you know, that's one of the concerns that I have, and I don't want to speak for Mr. Grimaldia, but you know, when we talk about the citizens panel,
 that is going to oversee the police department, they need to be trained and properly understand what the limits are that they can and they cannot do. If this Council would have wanted to fire the police officer prior to due process, we couldn't because of
 the law of New York State because of the contract law. So, you know, I think that, you know, I just wanted to state that and say that, you know, I will be voting for Mr. Grimaglia. And I do think that we will continue to move forward. It won't be at the,
 quickness that some people want, but I think that incremental change and betterment of our police department is so much better than some sort of radical change that is ultimately not going to work because our goal is to keep all of the residents of the city of Buffalo safe. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Deputy Commissioner, yesterday you and I had a good conversation. And what I really wanted to tell you is just that at this point in my district, some of our neighborhoods are fighting for their identity, facing dealing and violence that they haven't seen before. I very much appreciate your efforts and will to continue community policing efforts.
 I also would like you to continue the walking patrols that have been recently established. My district, my residents took very well to those and they very much want to see that out the officers out and engaging the community. Can you commit to continuing the walking patrols? I am a huge fan of walking posts. I did a lot of that when I was a younger patrol officer. I
 And with the aid of some state grants, we put a very robust walking patrol on Broadway throughout the last year. State funds helped to fund that, and the officers were out there to help revitalize some of the businesses through providing safety and their appearance out there. But they took it a step further.
 They not only stayed on Broadway, but they hit some of the feeder streets that were coming into that. And I found in some of the reports and some of the feedback that, you know, there were times that they were helping to pick up branches, helping people, helping residents, you know, with whatever needs they had. They were actually pitching in. We have a great many police officers. Yeah.
 that go above and beyond and do a significant amount of work. And it's that old saying of how you act when nobody's watching. We have a lot of police officers that act above and beyond when they think nobody's watching. And we have received some letters from people in appreciation for that. We have police officers that, because of the engagement they have in the community, because actually meeting people and not driving by in a police car,
 have done drives where they provide clothing, food, and they reach into their own pockets and they plan different events. You do that because you are actually out meeting people and the feedback from the police officers that they really enjoyed doing those foot posts. I did a couple of those myself because I thought it was important to go out there and see what was happening. And it's nice to get some fresh air. So yes, I absolutely will be, we certainly at times have manpower constraints where if we're at minimum manpower,
 But that's some of the crime plan that has been instituted is that some of those shorter parking walks and, you know, in some key areas and some other areas that that will be a part of the fabric. And when we have the additional manpower, there will be officers that have been out there for longer periods of time walking.
 very good and as commissioner i would like you just like to see you um pushing for adequate staffing levels adequate equipment we know with the police vehicles and the issues uh we've had and we're trying to get you more but um at budget time i just want to see you pushing because we do need to have our our departments adequately staffed and have the right equipment there have been times where you know looking to meet with a community officer and they didn't have a vehicle available so um it's very important but a lot
 Looking forward to working with you. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, council member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I did have a good conversation yesterday with him regarding the details of my district because my district does span A, B and C districts and the elements throughout my district often change rapidly. And in this position, you have to be incredibly agile and be able to address various degrees
 of problems and that need quick response. And after having multitude of conversations and a lengthy conversation, I know and understand that he definitely has the capabilities to do this job. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 Commissioner, I want to thank you for reaching out to me and just having conversations. So some of the questions that I would have asked you here, you kind of answered it. But last night when we talked, you had a really deep view of the police officers being on the street and how that would happen. So I'm going to ask you in just a few minutes to share just a bit of that, because you went beyond just saying,
 I want them on the street. There's a program that you have. If you had to give the, and because your appointment is so important in these times right now, I have a few questions. If you had to give the police department a grade right now overall, what would it be? I would say that we are, we have an A effort from our police officers. We look at ourselves very...
 very hard, I'll say. We are constantly looking at ourselves in a very tough way to make sure that we're improving. I think we have some of the, if not the best police officers and there are instances where things happen, where some officers have gone in a different direction, have gone out of policy, and that should not reflect on the phenomenal work that the vast majority of our police officers do.
 Because I give our officers an A, that doesn't mean that we're done and we're just going to rest on our laurels. We want to continue to get that higher. And we are constantly going to be looking at best practices, training, and to make sure that we not only maintain that, but get up higher than that. So if you give it an A, there's not much more room to go for. But let me let me ask it a different way.
 Going in and you've been you've gone up the ranks and I agree with you, we have some great officers out there and we have some that are that are not that's in every department and every. I oversee our denomination for the state of New York, I got some really great pastors and I got some that that needs some help. At the end of the day, though, when I came into the office, I had a vision of these are the things that need to change.
 You're coming into a department that you're grading as A, which is your option, that's how you see it. Is there something that you say, me coming in, this is what I, this is the stamp I'm bringing in that will make us better? Absolutely. And we look at that every day. So as I talked about professional development and our future leaders, and
 And as Council Member Scanlon said, we have a young department. You take away the smaller number of our officers that are pension eligible at this time, the next level after that seven-ish year gap has 14 years on the job right now. And some of our senior leaders are in that level of 14 years on, which means you have them for another minimum of six years. And it is incumbent upon
 me, hopefully, that we will provide them with that future leadership training so that they can continue that going down and they will understand the significant importance of policy development, policy implementation, policy adherence, maintaining strong discipline. Strong discipline doesn't always mean a suspension. Strong discipline means being
 being pulled in for a conference, having those conversations and correcting those issues before they become a larger issue. So, you know, just because I see the department and our officers in a certain way, it's very easy, just like accreditation that we obtain, it's very easy to lose it. You can lose it in an instant. And we have to work very hard to make sure that we maintain that
 that accreditation and that level that I believe our officers are at. What we talked about, and I don't want to get ahead of myself, but a part of a crime plan that we're instituting, I think is also giving our officers more direction as to what we expect out of them, what we want to see out of them so that they have a better idea of what they're doing when they're out there on the street and the times that they're not answering calls, what they're doing with that so-called free time or downtime.
 Do you have any goals that you have set for crime reduction? I do.
 Zero crime. And I'm not naive to think that that's ever going to be possible, especially in a setting where we live. We know that that's not going to be possible, but it doesn't mean that we're not going to strive for that. In 2019, with Commissioner Lockwood's leadership and his strong community-based policing mindset, we instituted a very, as I said earlier, very robust policy.
 custom notification program through a DCJS grant. The, you know, the commissioner's taken it to the streets, each district chief being, and I want to say this, I'll say it this way, but it doesn't mean it was, but mandated to run a community event
 the commissioner didn't have to mandate anything. He put it out there and it actually became a contest of who could have the better community event at their respective district house, which was in a lot of instances funded by the police officers in that district. So in 2019, we saw probably one of the largest drops in shootings
 on record that I'm aware of, at least in our record keeping, we had a 24% reduction in person shot in 2019 compared to 2018. You know, I can only look far back as the records that we have, but it's, it's no, um,
 It's no accident that that happened. That took a lot of community involvement, but it also took our officers going door to door to members that are involved in group violence that are teetering on the level to some that are knee deep and neck deep in the level of gun violence.
 and not to arrest them, not to search their homes, not to boot their doors in and not to disrupt the family home, but to have a conversation and say, look, we're here to speak with you. We want to let you know what you're doing. We know what you're doing. We weren't always successful in,
 talking with that individual that we are there to speak with, but we had a much higher success rate in speaking with the mothers and the grandmothers and the fathers and the grandfathers and relatives and siblings. And in a lot of instances, they didn't know what was going on and they didn't know to the level that that was going on. And we would show them pictures of some of these individuals holding guns. And you'd see family members that were floored by that. And sometimes letting...
 mom take care of business in the house, goes a lot further than what we can do. In working with violence interrupters,
 And I strongly believe in our violence interrupter program, our community members can do a lot more than what we can do. We've had guns turned over to us by family members, by individuals that we have met with, and they didn't walk out in handcuffs because we made a promise to them. We want that gun off the street. We don't want you going out tonight and invoking retaliation on somebody. That's the method that we can use the pandemic,
 turned all that upside down and turned it on its head. We're getting back to that. Last summer, we got back to that. And I think that we can really strive to reduce those numbers. If we can reduce the amount of people getting shot, and I love to talk percentages, but those are real life human beings that we're talking about. Those are people. And that has a wide ranging effect on the loved ones around them. So, you know, the goal is to,
 work on that, work on our violent crime, and also the property crimes and everything else around it. And I agree with you on those are people and bury a lot of the homicide, persons who have died by homicide.
 So I'm dealing with those families on a constant and consistent basis. And so these questions at times are on their behalf of people who are looking for closure in those things. You talked about tasers or less lethal force. We've heard from the police union who says we still don't have enough. We don't. What's the timeline that you would like to see less lethal force on our streets?
 Training has already begun. I don't know the exact number as of today, but I believe we've gone through about six or seven platoons. You know, we're capped at the number that we can effectively train at one time. I believe 12 is the number at one time. There's been some logistics that we had to work through to get that done.
 the technology, the chargers, the docking stations, things of that nature into the stations. But we just had a meeting this morning and implementation, getting those tasers out to those that are already trained over the last week will be immediate. There's a meeting being held this afternoon on where they're going to get to, and we're still working out some of the logistics in the station. I believe there's two other stations that have to get those
 charging docking stations installed, but they are going out, I'm hoping by tomorrow, but we are making an immediate impact in getting those out with the training. I spoke with our training academy, I spoke with some officers, the feedback has been absolutely phenomenal, they love the training. One officer I was told was very hesitant, didn't want to go in the training, came out and said, this is great. Anything we can do that can save lives.
 We are absolutely all for, but you will see those tasers being carried, if not by tomorrow, within a couple of days but the training has already begun. We had to send one of our academy instructors to master training school, so that that instructor could train other members of the training academy staff so that then they can conduct that training it's.
 Um, the tasers were purchased a while ago, but there, there was a lot of logistics and making that happen. And we had to get to what we felt was the best policy. And that took a little time to, um, iron out our policy and then get that deployed. So I only have a few more questions. You can make them real concise. You know, I'm sorry. No, it's okay. But I know, but I want to make sure we get, get your answer on the record. And it does it just because I asked the question, you know, it's, you can make it a little concise. Buffalo public school is, is dealing with some violence right now.
 your take on it and what you will do as commissioner to assist in that situation. We have an excellent school's chief and lieutenant that are very involved in everything that goes on at the schools. As I said, I'm a big proponent of the violence interrupters. I think it's great that they are engaged. I spoke with Reverend Giles yesterday, as a matter of fact. I think it's great that they're involved. So they know what's going on. School resource officers know what's going on and the teachers and administration know what's going on.
 And as long as that communication comes our way, we will be where we need to be when we need to be. And that's the last candidate, this and I'll ask every candidate this. And one question I didn't ask you, obviously, report directly to the mayor. But in your opinion, who are you responsible to?
 every one of the 278,000 residents of the city of Buffalo and the countless other visitors to the city of Buffalo. Because I think it's so important that your role is what you have been sworn to do.
 I think that we all live in the system of politics and elections and all that. But as I said to the last person, when an election is done, it's done. The people want a leader and they want somebody to protect them and to do the work that you've been called to. I am not a fan, and I said this to you yesterday, of waking up and hearing something that has tragically occurred
 either in the district that I've been elected to or in the city of Buffalo. At one point, I used to get some calls. I get no calls. And again, I get the calls from the news. And I'll hear such-such was murdered two blocks away and never get a call. Is there a desire to change that with all of the council members? Yeah.
 Yeah, Commissioner Lockwood was was very on point and saying to all the individual district chiefs to make sure that you are keeping your respective council member abreast as to what's going on. There were, you know, a couple of changeovers that occurred and we'll make sure that that gets back on board again. You know, it's incumbent upon the district chiefs to make, you know, to make those phone calls to make sure you're up to speed and then, you know, anything else you'll hear from me and.
 by all means, my phone's never off. Yes, and you did offer that yesterday and I appreciate that when we talk, but I just want to continue a relationship
 because a couple of years, when we had the protests going on, no one went to the police commissioner's house to protest. They came to the mayor's house and they came to my house. They actually did. I will say they actually did. They came to your house? No, Commissioner Lockwood's house. Okay. It wasn't public. Ours was very public. Yes. And at the end of the day,
 That's who people go to is to these council members sitting here. And if we don't know, and we're not in, and I know there's certain things that we won't know because as we talked yesterday, because there's an investigation. However, once 247 Buffalo News challenger criterion once they get it, somebody speaking to them from the administration.
 What often what has occurred is they speak to the public, but don't speak to those who are elected to represent the public. And I want to get that like from day one that we change that so that my colleagues and I are informed and know so that when people call us, we're able to say we're much aware and the police is working on that. Understood. Okay.
 So my final thing, and Councilmember Wyatt brought it up and you agreed, and I want to thank you for that, that within 90 days you would have that meeting. I think this is so important because if we don't talk to the public, especially the police departments,
 What occurs is then they blame us as if we didn't do something. So to hear that commitment does give me courage. We have a few million dollars that is being spent right now from the federal government. You're coming in, hopefully, or maybe I'm making a presumption as the commissioner. If you said to me, Darius, if I had extra money right now, I would spend it.
 on what in your department? That's my last question. Are you offering me $2 million? You know, it's possible. And honestly, at the end of the day, I know that we get a slate of a menu from the administration of these other things we want to spend this money on. The leadership that comes out of the police department
 I feel has to be so independent and stand up on their own that that leader is able to say without having 20 backroom meetings go, can I ask for this? This is what I need to lead, because ultimately, and I don't think you will fail, by the way. But if a commissioner, let's just say that fails and they fail based on what somebody told them not to ask for, that's on their legacy. What would you buy? What would you ask this council?
 technology. I think technology is also important. The technology that we've invested in has been very instrumental and sometimes solely responsible for solving crimes, murders,
 And we need our police officers to be staffed on the street, to be out in those hotspots. As I said, we have a gun violence grant that we've been getting for seven years, now going into year eight, that we use for proactive patrols. And my approach on that has not been to go out and over police a neighborhood that has been plagued by violence. That gets you nowhere. All that does is create animosity in particular neighborhoods.
 I am of a mindset of a prevent, I'll call it prevent offense. The more we use that technology and that data to put our officers in the right place at the right time, which takes money, we can prevent crime. We know that if this is a very hot area, I want our police officers there parked out of the car, being present in that spot while our detectives and our officers are focused on those that are driving the violence.
 technology is not cheap um that includes a variety of forms and sometimes there's legacy costs that go with with uh with those technologies but can you be specific just what technology shot spotter is something that uh that i've looked into extensively and i think it's something that we that we need okay we've had conversations about that uh working with the u.s attorney's office they uh
 Last year, they started the process of securing a one-time upfront grant that we're still waiting to finalize that would help offset almost 50% of the first year cost. We're waiting for that money to come through and I know it's being identified through various funds, but ShotSpotter says that they have and through their research, a very, very,
 rate of detecting actual gunshots. That means that our officers are getting to the scene of a potential shooting that much faster. The average time call for a 911 call of shots fired from shot spotters is 15 minutes. By the time we roll up on scene,
 Things have already dispersed. And when you have a shooting victim that potentially could be there for five, 10, 15 minutes before a call is made, a significant amount of blood is lost, which leads to a significantly higher rate of death. The more we can get there faster, the more we can save lives. The, the, the protests that were had that, that we had in the last year, year before last, was there anything that,
 was being asked for the community that you said, they're spot on on that. I guess it would depend on who is asking. I know there was a lot of demands of defunding the police. No, I'm asking what they were on or not. I want to be specific. If there wasn't, it's okay. But the reason I'm asking this, because if we don't remember our history, we're going to repeat it and they're going to come right back, especially as we change command.
 And they're going to say, here are the things we asked for. What are you going to do about them? So I'm just asking, is there anything that they said, even if you've already changed it, that you felt the community was spot on? You know, the violence interrupting interruption program and also, you know, I think
 part of that co-responder model that we have that we believe in, but having those mental health professionals out there ahead of time to interact and engage with those before they have a mental health crisis. I think that is also so very important. The co-responder model is very important because we have highly trained officers in that field to be more responsive. And when someone does get to the point where they are in mental health crisis,
 that we get those officers there so that they can help talk that situation down and deescalate it. Commissioner, thank you. And that's exactly because I think that we have to care much more about prevention than prison. It's easy to put anybody in handcuffs and take them to jail. But it takes a lot of effort and work to change the pattern of going from kindergarten to jail.
 and ensuring that the relationships we talk about, you talk about the violence interrupters and one of the things that makes them effective, right?
 is relationships. I was very glad to hear you talk about relationships. At a different time, hopefully you could share with this council in a much deeper way that plan that you shared with me. I apologize, I was hungry, I needed to eat. You caught me at dinner time, so I couldn't keep talking. But I think that preventing is important. That's all the questions I had. Anything else, colleagues? All right. Hearing none other.
 Majority leave. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Christopher P. Scanlon, roll call. Council Member Bowman. Yes, for Grimaliya.
 Council member Ferraletto. Joseph Grimaldi. Council member Golombet. Joseph Grimaldi. Council member Nowakowski. Joseph Grimaldi. Council President Pridgen. Joseph Grimaldi. Majority Leader Rivera. Joseph Grimaldi. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Joseph Grimaldi. Council member Wingo. Yes, for Grimaldi. Council member Wyatt. Yes. Congratulations, Commissioner. Next item.
 Item number 6, appoint Corporation Council. Corporation Council, the appointee is coming down. Then I expect that those who are, we have all the commissioners here, that that line of questioning will be lot more brief. You never know so that we can get on with the swearing in, but this is important. Again, I apologize to the public who is here at the length, but again,
 Good afternoon. If you'll state your name for the record and your opening statement. Good afternoon. Thank you, Council President. Thank you, esteemed members of the Common Council. I am Kevette Chambers and I'm the Acting Corporation Council for the City of Buffalo. Over the past 15 years, as a member of the Law Department of the City of Buffalo, I have seen this great city grow and become a highly sought after place for businesses, movie productions,
 and even make number seven on Traveling Leisure's compiled list of 50 best places to travel in 2021. It has been my pleasure to grow in this city from a young Black Jamaican American girl to now face you with the anticipation of being named the first Black woman, the first woman of my cultural heritage, to fill the role of Corporation Counsel.
 Through my times of greatest growth, I have been strengthened by the words of the prophet Isaiah in his 43rd chapter, verses two and five. When you pass through deep waters, I will be with you. When you go through rivers of difficulty, you will not drown. When you walk through the fire of oppression, you will not be burned up. The flames will not consume you. Fear not, for I am with you.
 It is easy to become afraid when as a community, we transition from the devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and now into the impact of war on our community. We know too well what these events, how these events impact the work that we are each committed to do. It is at these times that I am reminded that we do not walk alone and therefore we have no need to fear. We have a lot to accomplish on behalf of our great city.
 I am confident that we are well able to exceed our own expectations. I am committed to building on a sound foundation of integrity and cooperation with each and every member here and with the various departments represented. This can only be accomplished by a committed focus on achieving excellence through steadfast determination. I could do no less because those before me did no less. I see my mother here,
 who were great against great odds, believed and moved her eight children from her homeland to the city. My siblings who are also here, who graduated from various city public schools and today, are all successful in pillars in the communities where they live and serve. I am surrounded by friends, family, co-workers, attorneys, city leaders,
 and I am pleased to be nominated by the mayor of the city of Buffalo to wear all of the badges of pride and fierce determination to help build a better tomorrow than we see today. I am proud of the work of the city law department that I have served with and so passionately over the past 15 years. I'm joined by members of my law department here, of the city's law department.
 I take pride in the fact that we not only serve the residents of the city of Buffalo in this office, but the community efforts that we have done through the majority leader. I'm sorry, Assembly Majority Leader Crystal Peoples-Stokes. We work on Wills workshops in each of the districts that are served here.
 We provide assistance, whether it be through the mayor's reading rules program or any other initiatives so that we work not just in the office, but allow members of the community to see the city law department. We work on the city's interim foreclosure, a difficult process for many in the community where we spend tireless hours negotiating with property owners to help them save their homes. These are things that has been in place in this department.
 since I've been here for the 15 years, and they've been here even before that. Those are initiatives that we continue to work on. We continue to strive. And even in the face of difficulty, we still rise. And if I am confirmed as Corporation Counsel, those are things that I hope and I will continue to do with each and every member of my team. Thank you. Thank you.
 Council Member Skunk. Thank you, Council President. First of all, Ms. Chambers, you can't come in here and move us to the verge of tears. That's not fair.
 But during my time on the council, the interactions we've had, you've been nothing but professional. It's always been a pleasure to work with you. And it's in particular in the past couple of months as those interactions have increased in frequency. So I just, I look forward to working with you moving forward and I'll be voting in the affirmative for your confirmation. Thank you. Council member. Council member Revere. Then council member. No council. First of all, thank you. And I,
 You certainly have large shoes to fill with Tim Ball. In the time that I've been council member by far, he has been a rising star. And my sense was he would give council members information based on the facts and the law in advising us, whether they were controversial, whether it's, it had to do with, um,
 the different powers, whether it's the council, the controller's office, or the administration. He would give us that information and that is important because you represent all three levels of government. And it's important that there'll be time where you're going to say they're wrong and you're right. And we want to be able to depend on that, that you'll tell us based on law.
 You're right. They're wrong or they're right or you're in you're wrong So that's very important as a council member who relies on your information and your advice For this council now your office deals with a number of of things Including the office of new Americans My understanding is that the person who was handling that has left and that position is vacant It was created
 to reach out to the new Americans and refugees with language access. And they have put a plan together with a number of goals. I don't know if there were like 17 to 20 something goals that was in the plan. And I don't know where that plan is right now. As far as the position and the support staff that it needs, right now is there a person handling the office or director of New Americans?
 Thank you very much, Councilor Rivera for that question. The director for the Office of New Americans is an appointment made by the mayor and the mayor will be making a new appointment to that office. And I don't know if it necessarily has to be an attorney, but for some reason it was placed in Corporation Council and it was an attorney that was there. So I don't know if the mayor's gonna appoint another attorney or it's gonna be a director from somewhere else, but it is so important
 And I assumed that it was gonna be dealt through, it was gonna happen through the law department since that's where the mayor put it. But we certainly need to appoint that person
 in that position and to follow the goals that they had set out. So encourage the administration to make that appointment as soon as possible. We are a welcoming city. And as a matter of fact, I'm going to propose a resolution that not only are we called the welcoming city, but it's codified.
 And other cities have codified the term welcoming city. And so I'm going to propose a resolution to codify that. But we want to make sure that there's a follow-up with regards to Office of New Americans because there's no support staff, there's no director. I don't know where the plans are. And yet we're a welcoming city. So we need to follow up on that. The other thing that we need to follow up is some...
 Last year, this council funded a pilot project called the Law Enforcement Diversion Program. I was told that it's in law department. We're going into a new fiscal year now. We're finishing up this fiscal year, going into new and nothing has happened. And these are the reforms that we agreed to, that we passed in the budget.
 And I'm not, certainly it's not, but those are things that are in the law department from what I was told. So if we can track where that is, if there's an agreement, a memorandum or anything, if there are any difficulties, so at least we know, because many of the organizations that we met with,
 and who advocated for it. We went back and said the mayor adopted it. The mayor supports it. It's funded yet. We're going on a year of nothing that's happened with it. So we'd like to find out where that's at. It's the law enforcement diversion program that council supported. And it's part of the reform that we sent to Albany as well. So that's something we would like to look at. And.
 you have big shoes to follow because right now we have a number of attorneys that have left your office. And we want you to have the full benefit of having a full complement of attorneys to work with you to get the work done. Because if we don't have those attorneys, the work is going to back up many of the things that we need done. And the other thing is our reliance on outside legal counsel.
 which we were told just yesterday that that budget is gonna increase. And we were, I know that corporation counsel Tim Ball for many years wanted to reduce the reliance on outside legal counsel because of the cost in the budget. So, I mean, we wanna make sure that you have full compliment that your staff at the proper level, that the work is getting done, that you have the benefit.
 that the other corporation councils had as well. I'm looking forward to working with you and there will be some tension at times. It's just natural between the Common Council and the administration or in the Comptroller's Office. And we need you to give us
 advice based on law and I'm sure that you'll do that. And I just want to commend you. It is history here today. The first African-American woman, a woman which is very important as well. So congratulations. I look forward to voting for you. Thank you, council member. Council member Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am very excited for Ms. Chambers, and I know that she will serve the city honorably. But as to what Council Member Rivera said, leaders are only as good as those that are around them or their capacity in their department. And there have been frequent departures in the Corporation Council. So my question for Ms. Chambers is, during budget season, will you be advocating for additional resources to the city?
 to effectively execute your duties as corporation counsel? And what does that look like staffing wise or additional corporation counsel or attorneys? Thank you very much for that question.
 i will absolutely be asking for a significant increase in the city's budget my plans for the office is to build the staffing to levels that we have not seen before it is important that the law department reflect an actual law department we need staffing at each and every level whether the attorneys or support staff so those are full compliments that i'm asking for in the budget
 that would allow us to not just retain our current staff, but to attract and retain more staff. Wonderful. And I did learn from Karen yesterday that you've been with the city of Buffalo for almost 15 years. Over 15 years. Over 15. September 20, 2006. And it's really wonderful to see that you were able to build within the department and grow and be,
 become now on the top spot and that institutional knowledge is super important and it's beneficial to the city of buffalo but it also shows new attorneys that one day they can assume the top spot and grow with the city of buffalo so i'm very excited for you and congratulations thank you very much
 Thank you, Mr. President. You know, each of the departments has different difficulties for the commissioner, the person that runs the department. I always felt bad for the law department in certain regards, and I think Mr. Rivera really hit the nail on the head. We would call up
 I think Joel you're the only one here that has any real legal, legal experience the rest of us, you know, are very very much reliant on the law department, poor Karen we drive her nuts calling her on a regular basis. And it's because while something might look very very simple to.
 you know, the novice that most of us are, you know, we need that legal expertise, you know, that comes from the law department. And I've always been very impressed with the lawyers that have come out of Corporation Counsel. They've been professional, not jumping to conclusions, you know, looking at the law.
 following the law, not going on emotion. I mean, sometimes, you know, I look at things and it's like, you know, here's what I want to do. And, you know, and then Karen sets me, you know, to reality over what legally we can and legally we can't do. And that's a tough job, you know, for the lawyers to have to have to tell us and explain to us, you know, here's why you can, here's why you can't do it.
 You know, I've always been very, very impressed with the professionalism that has come from the law department, following the due process of all people that.
 all citizens, all people are deserving of it, whether it's popular at the moment or not. And I think that that will continue. I've actually, of all the people that are in front of us, Kavet, you're probably the one I know the least. I mean, we've dealt a few turns, but it's always been very professional and in a very, very positive way. One thing that I wanted to bring up, and it's because I want to help the Department of
 permits and inspections out so much because as I mentioned before permits and inspections, I believe are the most important proactive part of the city of Buffalo. You know, I would I
 like to make sure that when we're doing the funding this year, that we make sure that we have enough lawyers that are able to work with the inspections department. And in particular, not that that's been a problem in the past, but I think that with coming out of COVID and the backlog that is going to develop, and I think it's going to be
 pretty crazy for the next year or two. I know at one point there was talk about trying even to get a second housing court judge because of the backlog that was going to be there. But I wanted to make sure, and my colleagues did ask this question already,
 that there were enough lawyers in the department. And I will commit right now that in particular, for the assistance and housing court, that I will fight for adequate staffing in the law department to make sure that we can address all of the housing issues as quickly and as legally fair as possible. So I will be voting for Ms. Chambers as well. Thank you.
 councilman thank you mr chair i didn't want to speak first um this time regarding miss chambers but i am going to say this the first time i met miss chambers was about four or five years ago her and i sat in this very room on a panel to school-aged students and they hit us with the barrage of questions
 And I had no idea Ms. Chambers was an attorney. She was assistant corporation counsel. But then she answered the first question. And I mean, my goodness, the way she addressed these young people, the way she was able to engage with them, and just the spirit and power behind her voice told me she was somebody. And then I found out at the end of the meeting,
 that she was assistant corporation counsel. I hadn't been that impressed by anyone in a very long time, but by the way she engaged and interacted with people who are very special to me, which are students. She really, really, really showed these young people
 what Black professionalism as a woman looks like. And she was not intimidated. She was very poised and professional. And not that we should be impressed by that, but I was just happy to see that. And I'm very disappointed right now, though, that this historical moment is not being memorialized or chronicled by the media.
 I think they thought that maybe it was a good time to leave now when we are about to make history again in the city of Buffalo with the first Jamaican-American Black woman being appointed as Corporation Counsel for the city of Buffalo. And she got teary-eyed. I'm fighting tears right now, just to be honest with you, because I understand the significance of being the first. And she is the first...
 And now she has the weight of every little black girl, every African-American person coming behind her to do it right. And I have the faith to know that she will do it right. I believe she will make us all very, very proud. And I am very, very happy to say that I will be voting in the affirmative. Now, with all that said, I do have one question. Okay.
 And that question, Mr. Chair, to Ms. Chambers is, Ms. Chambers, who is your client? My client is the city of Buffalo. The city of Buffalo. Is there a different Buffalo Common Council? Is there a different Buffalo Executive? Is there a different Buffalo Comptroller? No. Are we all the same Buffalo? We're all the same city of Buffalo. So you represent the interests of your client and your client is who? The city of Buffalo.
 Okay, I don't have a problem with her philosophy on who her client is. I believe she will give us impartial, unbiased information regarding the best interests of the city of Buffalo. Thank you, Mr. Chair, for this time, and thank you, Ms. Chambers, for accepting that nomination. Thank you, Councilmember.
 Mr. Chairman, I wish we had a little time to meet before, but I know this all happened very, very quickly. So some of this I would have asked you in private. The council has voted to have a policy advisor who will be more than likely an attorney. The council, as you know, is the legislative branch of government. Your feelings on that policy advisor and our decision for that?
 Thank you. Sorry. Thank you, Council President for that question.
 The request for a policy advisor is something that our office supports. That's no different than any other branch of government in the state or federal level that has policy advisors, and that's something that's been missing here. I believe that having that person in that role would only further assist how we work together with whether it be Karen Gordon or Karen Gordon and any additional staff that if I am appointed, I would hire to assist the council.
 Okay, so the council will be hiring that person. And you, we have a very good assistant corporation council, by the way. And so this is in nothing toward the score.
 But in the past, the attorney that is signed to the council is also assigned, I believe, to the planning board. That same attorney is also assigned to the Zoning Board of Appeals and have all of these duties. And so the council, and this is not about Ms. Gordon, this is everybody we've had since I've been here has had all these duties.
 I don't want to, well, yeah, you are on the spot. Is that the best way to do this for the only policymaking board in city government? Is there another way that we may be able to do this or that you would be willing to look at? Yeah.
 That is a great question. And that is something that I have been examining the way that the department does business and the attorneys in the office do business with the various departments. Even I, as senior deputy corporation counsel, I was counsel on the board of ethics.
 the special events board. I still continued a lot of my duties as an assistant corporation council, and that's just because of the nature of the availability of staff to perform all those duties. Karen Gordon does an excellent job.
 in her role. Does it make sense in some respects? Absolutely. Because each and every board that she sits on, ultimately their decisions are brought to your office or to this body for review and approval. But does it also make sense for her to have assistance? Absolutely also. Whether it be another attorney or whether you support staffer, because all of these things work together.
 The matters that are presented to the zoning board are ultimately in a planning, but are ultimately going to be brought for the common council. So to have someone who is separate from that, now there's a separation of communication. So Karen can always advise you, this is what the planning board actually considered. So she was there, she was part of the conversation. And those are questions that any member of the body would need to have asked and answered.
 So in that role of following each and every board, she's able to provide you that full breadth of information that someone who was assigned to planning board only zoning board only, or even those boards and not the council would not be able to give you all of that information on a firsthand basis. They would be having to go to someone else and then provide the information. Sometimes it is difficult.
 I feel sorry for our assistant corporation council. And the reason is, is because we throw a lot at her. And because of being, having to deal with these other boards and I really appreciate you saying, well, whether it's an assistant or something so that we don't have one person
 trying to do all of those things, maybe need the knowledge. But if you take a look at our legislative agenda and how far backed up we are as far as policies and laws that need to be written,
 And we just can't get the traction yet, simply because I've got one person spread in a lot of different areas. So I would ask that as soon as you can look at that structure and whether it is, as you suggested, that there's an assistant given. But I think the difficulty of being a legislator.
 and wanting to amend laws and do laws and not having a person that that's just what they do is a lot for one person. I told Ms. Gordon the other day,
 I apologized to her because something was asked to her on the floor. She did the best she could. She was scrambling to get the answer. But I said to her, you're not an encyclopedia. You can't know it all. Because she felt a certain way, like, oh, I'm sorry. No, you can't know it all. And so if you could, as soon as possible,
 look at the amount of casework so that we can begin to move the legislative agenda forward and that we are not burning out one attorney. And that leads to the next question that has already been asked, but I want to be a little bit more detailed. Right now, the
 And you've admitted that you're going to ask for more money for attorneys. Are there attorneys out there who want to work for the city of Buffalo? Because we can ask for more money, but is there, because we've had so many people leave the department.
 And I'm going to ask the hard question of why in a second. But is there people out there, in your opinion, who are willing to come and work for the city? Absolutely. And we also have staff that's returning to the city. If appointed, I'll be appointing as a senior deputy corporation counsel, Mary Scarpine. Council Member Golombek spoke about the work that was being performed by permits and the support that's needed from our office. Mary spent time.
 four years in housing court. So she has extensive knowledge in that role and with the inspections, inspectors, sorry, and also is our labor attorney. So that is a role that she's coming back to fulfill for us. And we also have other people who have reached out. I have individuals here who have shared resumes. People do want to work for the city of Buffalo.
 So it's a welcoming place. They know the wealth of knowledge that we have in the department and what their willingness is to build the department up. So that is not an issue for us right now. How many attorneys are you down right now? We're finalizing that number in the past,
 Since fall, we've lost a total, including the Corporation Council and the Deputy Corporation Council. There were five attorneys. Five out of how many total? Five out of 17, I believe. So that's a pretty significant number. I know that there was an article recently about a court case recently.
 In which, according to the article, there was only one attorney on a very large case. I can't remember which case it is. I'm sure you're familiar. Has that case, is that still in court? Yes, it is. Do we still just only have one attorney from the city on it?
 No, we don't. We have moved that case to outside counsel. So we have an adequate number of attorneys on that case now, you think? Yes, with the help of outside counsel, we do. And if not, so we are now paying outside counsel for that? Yes. So the philosophy that Tim Ball had, which I agreed with, but I'll say it publicly, what I disagreed with is Tim would be here sometimes 14 hours, 15 hours in a day.
 attorneys would be here a long time. Your philosophy, is it the same of not having the outside attorneys?
 I believe that there's always going to be a need for outside counsel. And even during the former corporation counsel's time, we did use outside counsel. It's necessary for a myriad of reasons. One being because even with a fully staffed office, there are areas of practice that we may not be knowledgeable of.
 And it's so significant that we do have to tap outside resources. The benefit of outside counsel, because I've even received that benefit directly when I started in the city. Within two years, I was doing Article 7s, which are real property tax law challenges. They don't teach Article 7s in law school.
 So we had to retain outside counsel and through that work with outside counsel, outside counsel was able to assist me and train me on how to handle those matters for the city. So even as we move forward, well, right now it's by necessity because
 We've lost key members of our department. We have ongoing litigation and there's significant exposure to the city. So we do have to go to outside council, but even moving forward, the benefit of outside council of building up our team
 As I bring in, if appointed, new attorneys, it's not just we're paying outside counsel to do the work for us. They are. But the additional benefit is that it's a learning process for the department. It's not they just get the file and it's done and they're writing invoices for us to write checks.
 It's an ongoing process of building relationships that say, I can do better each and every member of our team, and we have an excellent team of fraternities. We only know what we handle on a day-to-day basis for the city.
 So there's a number of outside counsel firms that represent a myriad of governmental entities. So that exposure is only used to, one, assist us in an immediate capacity that we might be short in, but it also builds us up as far as our knowledge base. And I think my last question is really about the housing court, and it was brought up earlier. And I know that attorneys don't make final decisions in housing court.
 at least in Ellicott District, we have a huge amount, and I'll say it, I'll say the word, and they don't like it too bad. I'm 57 years old. I say what I feel. Slumlords who do not live in the city of Buffalo. And it seems that it is very difficult to get these people who are, I'm okay with the senior who's got a gutter falling down. Don't,
 let's work with with them but people who live outside the city of buffalo and are able to get away with not doing these properties do you have a plan of how we can more aggressively and i know it's inspections by the time it gets to you and you're on your way to court but is there a better way to get these landlords to respond to the city of buffalo so we're not living around their garbage um that is an excellent question i have been meeting with um
 newly appointed Commissioner Amder on how we can work together to improve that process in housing court and how we can be aggressive. We have heard the news reports. We've seen the issues that arise when properties are not being dealt with. So those are approaches that we're looking at how we're going to resolve them in the future. Okay.
 whether, well, most importantly, as far as our department, being more aggressive, asking for more demands with the housing court judge, but also through the work of what will be our administrative adjudication process so that you don't have your mom and pop that are sitting in housing court when there's actually maybe there's processes that we can develop through our
 partnership with other city agencies and outside agencies that would help to alleviate that burden in housing court. There are a number of cases sitting there. Some of them can be resolved more quicker and outside of that venue. And that's also a process that moving forward, we're going to develop with the permit office.
 The Council Member Wingo brought up about you being possibly in the next few minutes, the first woman and you own of Jamaican descent to be the Corporation Council. I want to be clear. I don't want you to be set up for failure because you can be the first. And then if you fail, public will not say that Claudette, that you failed.
 they'll say the black woman failed. You have to be very honest with us about the staffing issue and what you need. And I know, are you reporting directly to the mayor or one of the deputies? To the mayor. To the mayor. Although you report to the mayor, the reason for this government being set up is because as Council Member Wingo asked you, and I won't ask it again, because you already answered it. You work-
 for the people. And at the end of the day, this council wants to see every commissioner successful. But if you're going into a department that's already short staffed, that's already in the news of saying that we got cases that are not being followed through because we don't have enough attorneys,
 if we have to get the outside attorneys, I have no problem if it means that we're in a better position to win. And that's important. But at the end of the day, I wanna see you and every commissioner successful. And if you feel that you cannot be honest with us, you won't be. So I wanna leave those doors wide open and those doors open to you so that if the things that you need to get the job done, because remember,
 It's your license. You went to school and your whoever paid or they went to school, you took an oath. It's your reputation on the line here. And we want to make sure you have success. Because the one thing I hate is that we put people in places and then don't give them the tools that they need. And then it fails and it's on you.
 You don't have to wear that burden. You're smart. You're intelligent. And in a few minutes, I think you will be the first woman of Jamaican descent to be our Corporation Counsel. Thank you for the question. Thank you.
 Anything else, colleagues? Final coming out of Councilmember Wyatt, and we'll take the vote. Unless there's something else that comes up. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I didn't have an opportunity to meet Ms. Chambers and talk about anything, so this is my first shot. I worked with her or I'm on the appraisal committee with her and had an opportunity to see her operate there.
 Have you managed before? I'm sorry? Have you managed before? Yes, I've managed the city's law department. I've been a senior deputy corporation counsel since 2017. 2017? And, you know, because I'm going to ask them real questions because I'm concerned about the amount that we may have to spend on outside counsel. The city is already working with very limited resources.
 And so that's important to me how you do that. So what will be a plan of action? You talked about hiring attorneys. What will be your process in making sure we get the right attorneys in for the city of Buffalo?
 That will include a process of one engaging different members of the community of the legal community, reviewing the resume, reviewing the reputations of the lawyers, and having honest conversations with them. I'm not looking to hire anyone who historically has used the law department as a stepping stool. And that's what the department has been viewed as.
 We are a department that you have two tiers of attorneys, munis and ACC2s. And so people come or attorneys come from law school and you have this wide breadth of knowledge that you can gain here because this is an office where there's no other
 law department in the city that will give you the experience that we have here. So that is something that I do not want to continue. I want to look for committed attorneys. So you're not going to come here and want to gain the knowledge of how do you get things passed through the common council? How do you get an agenda passed through the planning board, a zoning board, and take that information and go and work for a private firm and then bring it back here? And then we have those same attorneys.
 appearing before any of our bodies on the knowledge that they gained in this office. So I'm looking for committed attorneys. I'm looking for diverse group of attorneys that represent the entire city of Buffalo. Now, when you're an attorney, you hire an attorney, they don't have a contract, you hire them at will, correct? Correct. Okay. So you're just going to try to lean on the relationship that you'll build with them that they'll make that initial commitment.
 Correct. Okay. What would your colleagues say about you? I mean, as far as your management style and how you get things done? I'm not one to talk about myself, so this is going to be difficult. Please talk about yourself. I don't do the toot-toot. But I will say that when I started in the city in 2006,
 I was immediately appointed to serve as the Corporation Council's designee on the Board of Ethics. That's a confidential appointment that has, whether it be department heads, council members, or employees coming to me and trusting me with confidences to review and give them a legal opinion on. I served in that capacity and I still do serve in that capacity.
 And that's just walking through the door. So that is something that the then Corporation Counsel Lisa Lukasiewicz saw in me. As I moved on and continued to build relationships with each and every member of my staff or of the law department staff, they would come to me. I was the sounding board. I provided guidance. I provided advice.
 not only internally, but also to the department heads that worked in the city, whether they're past or present, to advise them on proper contracting, the benefits of which this body has seen, that we have standardized our contracting process to where you know to look for, which we have had those conversations, is that termination clause still in there?
 Those are things that we have worked together on developing the relationship that would have in 2017 a position that I did not know was available, but I was asked to take because of that relationship that I built with the department that the staff and the management at the time saw me as somebody that should be appointed to the position of senior deputy. That to me was.
 a complete representation of who the staff and the management saw me as being, because again, this isn't something I asked for.
 This is them viewing me and how I operate and the integrity that I maintain in the office, the relationship that I built with each and every member of our staff, and the relationship that I've built with the commissioners and with some of the council members. I think at some point or the other, each of you have reached out when you came on board and asked me about your discretionary fund contracts.
 And my immediate respond, if you would look in your emails, I get them to you within the same day because that's how I operate. I'm responsive. I strive to make sure that if there is a problem in the office, that we work through it together. I am always what the department refers to or what I refer to them as. Every email says team law.
 because we are a team. We work together and where there's any shortfall, we go in and we help each other out, regardless of what our practice area is.
 I like what I heard as far as that, because you kept speaking and referring to team, and that's what real leadership is about. And the other thing that you talked about that I think is really important, I think Council President touched on this integrity. Your client is the city of Buffalo, and I know in some cases we've had some challenges, making sure that that's clear. And, you know, when you talk about integrity, that's what I'm expecting. Okay.
 You know, we may not always agree, but the fact that we can get the actual information, the factual information, not teetering one side versus the other, but the facts. And so I look forward to that. How will you deal with the backlog? I know we have a great deal of backlog and I guess the other piece of that is the expense that may occur because we're going to hire some additional attorneys.
 I think we've lost five from what you're saying. Are we in the process of losing others? No, we're not. Okay. So we have five that you're going to have to, well, four you're going to have to replace because you're taking the top spot. But making sure we manage that. I know that's something that, you know, as you talked about growing your team.
 You'll need those dollars to initially get those other things done because I am concerned about the backlog, and I want to see us make some some dents in that backlog to make sure that, again, the city is operating and not putting others at risk because it seems as though we're slow walking things. That's what people's perception is, that the city is just slow walking it because we don't want to do
 with the issue. I know right now there's a pending issue in the court regarding the school zone cameras and the refunds that people have asked. Are you involved with that at all? That is the matter that Council President asked about, and it's with outside counsel. Okay.
 Okay, well with that being said, I love making history. Every time I see you in city you're always smiling. I think that speaks volumes that, you know, you have a presence to inspire and hopefully support and coach your teammates so look forward to working with you in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. Just one more quick comment, then another quick question. I'm glad that you brought up the fact that when your interactions with the council members, you referenced how quickly you got back to them.
 Because I can tell you to a person, whenever I have conversations regarding you, they will say, she got back to me, they might not care for what you had to tell. But you got back to them right away. So everyone is very appreciative of that because sometimes.
 whether it's a council member or someone else might send an email and might go out into the abyss and might not hear back from someone but you're extremely responsive so it's greatly appreciated by everyone. And the other one just a quick question and it can just be a yes question because we can probably get into it during budget after what I presume would be in confirmation of you today, you referenced attracting committed lawyers to the department. Do you think that the compensation has to increase.
 for those positions to in order to keep them here? Or is it at an adequate level? Absolutely. Okay.
 Thank you for that answer. I mean, every attorney in Buffalo is happy right now, but it was an honest answer that you didn't have to make a call to answer. And I appreciate that. Council Member Frioletto. Thank you. I just wanted to echo what a lot of my colleagues have said. Every time we've had an interaction, you've immediately got back, you've given great counsel, and I look forward to working with you in the future.
 Thank you, Council Member. Thank you, Mr. Chair and Ms. Chambers. I haven't had much interaction with you yet, but looking forward to working with you. I think your 15-year journey through the law department uniquely positioned you to lead this department. So I do want to echo the sentiments of my comments, my colleagues, as far as, you know,
 with council president pridgen said about freeing up karen to work with the council more i think that's a great idea um i will am very interested in meeting meeting with you and commissioner amder about the housing issues and the blight in our neighborhood i would like to find a way to address these problems so um thank you thank you thank you we have nothing else and i probably shouldn't say this but if
 feet and doing like this have anything to do with the excitement of you being appointed your corporation counsel over here?
 is having a fit. She's like, yes, yes, yes, yes. And she's trying to maintain her professionalism, but it seems as if she's very excited. So to your question about management, I'll give you her answer a little later about how well this chambers has been doing, but because I don't have her permission, although I just put her on the record, if it has anything to do, if we're ready to call the vote.
 Motion to approve. Motion to approve, second by Councilmember Ulysses O. Wingo, Sr. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Kvett Chambers.
 Council Member Farrelletto. Kevett Chambers. Council Member Golumbac. Kevett Chambers. Council Member Nowakowski. Kevett Chambers. Council President Pridgen. Excuse me for being extra, but to the one who graduated from Erie Community College, State University of New York at Buffalo, and State University of New York, Buffalo Law School, Kevett Chambers. Majority Leader Rivera. Kevett Chambers. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Kevett Chambers, Esquire.
 Councilmember Wingo? Yes, to Kevette Chambers, JD Esquire Council. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. It passes. Congratulations to the first African American woman Corporation Council of the City of Brooklyn.
 Colleagues, if you agree with me, I'm going to do you a favor in the next appointments. I'm going to bring them all up. Put them on a mic. Okay.
 so that we're not calling one down after another because we're very familiar with these commissioners, but I don't want to take away your opportunity to ask them anything, but it won't be in any order. We're going to move and hopefully be done in the next 10 minutes so that we are able to swear in our new commissioners and keep in our old commissioners. Commissioners, wherever you're
 at is where you'll be sworn in so that your mom doesn't have to try to, we don't have to, we'll swear you in right next to your mom. And we'll swear in after we have the other commissioners come down and put them
 before the council so that everyone can be sworn in and we'll have enough social distancing because we still, although things are relaxed, want to keep everybody safe. So commissioners, come on down. If that's okay with everybody to do it that way. Okay.
 Item number seven reappointment of department heads reappointment of department heads is before us. We have before us Commissioner of Community Services. Otis T Barker Commissioner of Fire, William Rinaldo and Commissioner of Public Works parks and streets, Commissioner Finn. Are there any opening statements that either of you gentlemen would like to give us. Okay.
 Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you. Thank you for not just the opportunity to speak with you here today, but for all the support you've provided to myself, my command team, and our firefighters over the last three years. That support has resulted in a more vibrant, diverse, adaptable, and efficient department, trained and ready to provide the highest level of service possible to the community. The Buffalo Fire Department is poised for success, and it remains an honor and a privilege to serve, and for the opportunity to lead this organization into the future.
 I'll conclude by thanking my family, who have sacrificed much over the last three years, Mayor Brown for his continued confidence in my abilities, my command team who work to implement new policies and procedures and purchase new equipment and apparatus, my administrative staff who work tirelessly to meet the personnel needs of over 700 firefighters, my fellow commissioners and department heads, and most importantly, our firefighters.
 risk everything every day to protect the lives and property of our citizens. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Commissioner.
 Good afternoon to this honorable body. I wish to thank the mayor and the members of the Common Council for considering me for re-confirmation to the title of commissioner for Department of Community Services and Recreational Programming, excuse my voice. I look forward to continue working together on behalf of the residents of the City of Buffalo,
 as the human services arm of city government. I'm proud to say that I'm working with a kick-butt team that really works hard and they are passionate about their work for the city of Buffalo. Be it youth, senior services, the homeless, we get out there and we do it. I'm so proud of them. We look forward to working hard again
 as we did through the pandemic. Thank you. Commissioner. Good afternoon, council members. My name is Michael Finn, and I'm honored to be here to be considered for reappointment to the office of commissioner of public works, parks and streets. I've served as commissioner for this department for three years now, and I'm excited for the opportunity to be considered to continue. It's no doubt that this department has faced challenges for the past three years, specifically,
 carrying our essential services uninterrupted for the duration of the pandemic. Every day we've been hustling to maintain services by shifting staff, equipment, and other resources around, and I couldn't be prouder of the way that our employees have served throughout this pandemic.
 My goal for this department moving forward is to transition from the hustle mode that the pandemic has brought onto a more methodical and consistent service. I would seek to leverage technology to enhance our services and increase predictability and accountability for our service. That, I believe, is the key to moving forward and advancing this department and our city.
 In addition, my commitment to your honorable body is consistent and frequent communication. I believe that's the key to success for our relationship to developing consensus on the delivery of services for our residents. When we are talking, we can work through our shared vision and move improvements forward. Thanks again for considering my nomination. I'm happy to address any questions to the members of the council. Council members, beginning with Council Member Rivera.
 Thank you very these are reappointments and we've all worked with each one of them in terms of operations and service delivery and budgets.
 So we've dealt with them with constituency issues and everything. So I'm not gonna get into questions for each and every one since we've worked with them over the years. And our goal is to continue to improve service delivery and operations and technology and things like that. And those come through the appropriation process. So I'm looking forward to sitting with you all and making sure that you have the resources and that the people are being served. So thank you very much for your service.
 thank you anybody else comes remember why thank you sure um i'm excited to support these three candidates well the reappointment um and actually especially um want to give thanks to commissioner finn um you know we haven't always had saw eye to eye but we had a very candid conversation yesterday i really appreciated his candor um i think sometimes that's what we need to have that
 to get to the next level because we all want to make sure, as he said it to me, the residents of this entire city are served. And his commitments, I appreciate that we'll continue to work together
 We've got more frequent meetings. I think Council Member Bowman had brought that up with Commissioner, and we talked about that because we just want to make sure that we can deliver for our residents. You know, as Council President said, you know, the election is over. So now how do we govern and how do we make sure we deliver to the residents of the city of Buffalo? They have a high expectation. We know it's very challenging, but the ideas and things that we talked about, I look forward to working with you on. And with that being said.
 I want to bring up a point that I thought I brought up a number of times regarding the new public safety center for police and fire. I know that it's been brought up numerous times regarding the showers and the situation for investigators. So with you two being here, I want to hear where are we with that and when will that be addressed? Thank you.
 Well, I'm talking about police and fire. Commissioner Finn and the fire commissioner. This is showers for Dylan? Yeah. I don't have a specific answer I can answer to you today, but I'll talk to Deputy Guzman and get you an answer very quickly. Okay. Councilman, I can just add something to that. I know the
 The monies have not been approved yet, but the issue has been addressed to DPW and Commissioner Finn, and Deputy Commissioner Guzman, and the project is moving forward.
 Okay, because I know it's been a number of years since we were told that that was going to happen and it hadn't. So while I have your attention, I hope that we can get that done. For you, Commissioner, Fire Commissioner, I want to talk about the overtime. And as I talked to Commissioner Gamalia, certainly that's a big thing for me. How are we with the overtime? We haven't had an update as of recent on overtime. How are we doing on the overtime? I'm glad to address that. And thank you for the question.
 Since we, myself and the command staff have come on board, I think we inherited a, I think the last year was around $12 million in overtime. And we've saved, since 2018, we've saved between $4 and $5 million a year since that time. So my personal...
 opinion on overtime is there's good overtime there's bad overtime bad overtime is when you have an understaffed department and you have to call firefighters in on overtime all right so we committed and we have made a concerted effort to keep this uh department fully staffed uh case in point we have a recruit class in training right now 51 new recruits that will keep us uh you know fully staffed uh you know pending any new retirements so we're in the uh sustain and improve mode
 which means we've been running a recruit class pretty much every fall and spring to keep us above that 700 figure, which will help us immensely when it comes to overtime. We've also had some significant challenges, obviously, with the pandemic as well. We have over 350 firefighters actually contracted the virus. And even though that happened, we were able to sustain services. And that's because we were...
 And we did make a concerted effort early on in our tenure to keep the department fully staffed. Otherwise, we would have had to, or it's a great possibility, we would have had to come back on services. Because I know that we've been through a number of iterations where you were told that we need to hire additional staff. We need to make sure promotions are in place. We've done all those things. We went to 24 hours, and it still seems as though the overtime continues.
 at a pace that is just unacceptable. If we were having a fire, I mean, I'm sure I don't, the count of fires, if it was commensurate with
 the overtime, then that would make sense. But I don't, I don't believe it does. I know that there's a new contract possibly coming forward at some point in time. And I know that there's some other conversations about the use of those 24 hours. To me, I'm gonna tell you right up front, I think that was a mistake. Because when we have people coming in for 24 hours, and someone calls off, and guess what, they get 24 hours of overtime.
 We can't sustain that. And I know my district needs these dollars, these precious dollars for things that we need in our districts. I know I've talked to commissioner Finn about curbs.
 And we know that curbs are extremely expensive. So we have to use every dollar we can and save every dollar can. I'm not saying to curb the delivery of services. Absolutely not. But as the police department, I said, we just have to manage it. You know, I'm not saying that you can't have any overtime. But to let it be like a cultural thing that overtime is just available to everyone at every time, any time.
 helps makes my district suffer for the things that they really need. I know Minnesota Avenue, Lisbon, Roebling Avenue all want curbs. But right now we may not be able to do that. I'm hopeful that we can, but we'll see the improvements that you talked about. Councilman, I would like to expand just a little bit on the overtime issue if I could please. As I said, I look at good overtime, bad overtime. Aside from colony and firefighters for overtime,
 on the line. We also support a myriad of different endeavors in the city, our weather events, for instance.
 We know we had some snow events, we had some recent flooding, that all generates some overtime as well. We support all these special events in the city, the air show, the ball drop, Buffalo Marathon, St. Patrick's Day Parade, things of that nature. So that also generates a fair amount of overtime as well. The pandemic, going back to the pandemic, 350 firefighters contracted the virus yesterday.
 That translated into most $2.7 million in administrative leave that added to our overtime budget as well. And we have professional development. We're the second biggest, largest fire department in the state of New York. So we have professional development, which means we send our first-line leaders to first-line leader school. We have various certifications that we have to maintain on an annual basis, things of that nature. And that's...
 Just to expand on the certifications, ice rescue, water rescue, EMT recertifications, things of that nature. So there's more than just the straight overtime line overtime is what I'm trying to get at. So thank you.
 And I know we recently had to pay out a settlement regarding the situation with a firefighter. And it seemed to refer to the communications. Have we addressed that as far as the walkie talkies and those things? As far as the portable radios? Yes, yes, we have addressed it. And in that particular case, it wasn't precipitated by, we're already in the process of purchasing new radios, new communication devices.
 and we haven't really accelerated it in any way. We're just still continuing with that process of purchasing new radios for every member of the department. How many radios are you saying you would need to purchase? How many firefighters are there?
 A little over 700 firefighters, however, only a little over 400 actually work online. The rest are in various departments, the training bureau, fire investigation, fire prevention, things like that. So we purchased 30, doesn't sound like a lot of radios, but we need to purchase another 145. They're fairly expensive, go for like 3,800 and some change a piece.
 And so we've already budgeted for those going forward. Yeah, I'm definitely in support, whatever we need to do to make sure our firefighters are safe. If this is an expense that we have to incur, I think we just have to incur it because of the safety of our firefighters, we don't get a second chance as far as their safety. So absolutely, I hope that we'll hear about that during the budget cycle. Mr. Barker, I just wanna bring up to you, you've done an awesome job, everyone loves you.
 Wherever you go, they know Otis. But the one thing I wanted to talk about, Otis, from your shot is as far as senior services. I know that Gloria Parks, I have seniors who have been somewhat challenged as far as Gloria Parks in our senior services not being fully operational with COVID. What is the plan for getting things back on speed for those seniors who in many cases have been stuck in their homes for years?
 a long time. Right. Thank you for that question. With our seniors over at Gloria J., actually, I went out a couple times to meet with them when they were doing their dancing on Fridays. And, you know, we just wanted to make sure we protected them through COVID. They were more susceptible than the young people. But now that things are opening up,
 things are going to be opening up. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. I plan on voting for the three commissioners to be reappointed. And I just have one comment. It's actually for commissioners Finn and Rinaldo. Please, please, please.
 remember to help me to put the generators in the budget for the remainder of the fire houses in the city of Buffalo. My big fear is that before we get them all in place, that God forbid, we're gonna have some sort of an emergency. And I wanna make sure that we have the backup generators to be able to make sure that all of our fire houses throughout the city of Buffalo
 are up and able to be to run. And you know, I'd like to look at it was gonna ask Donna, if ARP funds would be available for something like that. Because I think that that's, you know, the health and safety of all of our residents. And that needs, in my opinion, to be a priority. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. Chair. These three gentlemen before us, I welcome and look forward to their continuation on. We're in constant dialogue with all three of them, but after, in a note of levity, after a very tough snow season, I'd like to state for the record, it's Michael Finn, not Flynn. I didn't hear the last part, but I won't ask you to repeat it. You can tell me later. Council Member Bowman.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say I had a good conversation with Commissioner Finn.
 who committed to meeting with me monthly or someone from his staff, because there is a high volume of public works issues that come to council members and we need to adequately address those. I also want to impress upon each commissioner that it's important that we all fight for adequate staffing and adequate equipment, especially in public works and fire
 Commissioner Ronaldo, I saw you at the fire event for the promotions and retirees this past weekend, and I had a great chance to talk to a lot of the firefighters, but I just want to make sure they have adequate equipment, and I'm sure that's your commitment as well. And Otis, for you, I would ask for programming dollars for some of our senior centers, specifically Autumnwood Senior Center. There's a huge
 senior population in kaiser town but there's not much activity in that center and i appreciate you stopping by and kind of talking to me about that recently so uh those are my comments thank you very much councilmember wingo thank you mr chair i just would like to uh acknowledge that i know these three gentlemen i've worked with all of them they are very responsive i appreciate the work that they've done and how open and honest
 They have been with the mass and district office. So I look forward to working more with these guys. And again, yes, Commissioner Otis Barker he's known by everyone in the city of Buffalo, and he is loved absolutely by everyone in the city of Buffalo, but I don't want to put him on the spot, but
 I know Mr. Barker has his favorite council member, and I'm not going to say who that is, but I will be voting in the affirmative of all three of these gentlemen here. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Council Member Wingo. I'm sure he does have his favorite council member, but I think he also has his favorite pastor, so he belongs to True Bethel.
 Just for the commissioner, the same thing that I brought up with the other commissioners, and that's about information.
 I don't do you have anyone assigned or for each council members so that if there's a fire and there did a large fire and especially I'm not talking about every fire I don't think everybody wants call but although they are all important because somebody has lost something but those fires in which there's a loss of life where there's injuries to our firefighters
 Is there someone assigned to let individual council members know when it's in the district? That is a great question, and I'm glad you asked that question earlier, because I work very closely with the city's communication department and any incident of any importance. Well, they're all important, but we're serious injuries to our firefighters or citizens to read.
 that I reported pretty quickly, not real quickly, very quickly, to the communication department. And I see this going two different ways. I believe every one of the council members has my phone number. If they're aware of any incident that happens in their district, whether it's two in the morning, one in the morning, because I get those calls all the time anyway, feel free to contact me directly because that's what the communication department does and I provide you with accurate, timely information.
 And I do get the most accurate timely information because I have people on the ground. So you can call me anytime, day or night, 24-7. So I am the point of contact. And I appreciate that. But there are things that we don't know to contact you about. That's where, I'm sorry to interrupt, but that's where the communication department comes in. If they would like me to share that information with each one of the councilmen in real time, at the same time I'm sharing it with them, I'd be very happy to do that.
 So I guess I kind of want a commitment, to be honest. And the reason is, is because, again, and I pressed it and I'm going to keep on pressing it. And then maybe every people understand. I don't it's tough to wake up in the morning and find out from the news that you've had a fatality in your district. And then what happens is because we're really the boots on the ground, basically, right?
 When there's no response from the council member at times, it's like, well, council member didn't care. And sometimes it's because council member doesn't know. So I think, and I welcome the call you definitely do.
 But I think that from your department, there needs to be that on a consistent basis so that if it is in university, I don't necessarily have to have a call from university, but the university district council members should or the north or whomever. And I think that if we move forward and that's organized, it helps us all as a government to be aware of the major things that go on in our city. I understand that 100%. If I was in your shoes, I would want that timely, accurate information as well.
 There's no reason why you have to wake up in the morning and find out a serious incident occurred in your district. So I will make sure that going forward, I'll address that. Thank you, sir. Anything else, council members? If nothing else, call for a motion to approve the confirmation of.
 Commissioner Finn, Commissioner Rinaldo, and Commissioner Barker. Second by Joe P. Ferraletto. Roll call. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golumbac? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Winkle? Yes. To Barker, Rinaldo, and Finn. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Congratulations.
 You gotta have your lunch. Where's your power drink? Got a podium or something? What will happen is every person to be sworn in if you want to stand by your mom, and then we'll square you in right next to your family. Your family can take pictures. So you get your own pictures or you can stand with them or whatever you want.
 What a picture. So I'll give you say your name and the department. As you raise your hand. I name. Do solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution.
 of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of and your office
 of the city of Buffalo, according to the best of my ability. Thank you. Congratulations, commissioners. We're going to send the book around so that you can now formally sign the book and we'll start at the top and then come around to the gentleman. Congratulations. Thank you, councilman. Thank you.
 Should we adjourn it now or motion to adjourn?