End of life. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Present. Councilmember Ferraletto? Here. Councilmember Golombek? Here. Councilmember Nowakowski? Present. Council President Pridgen? Aki. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Councilmember Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Kite? Present. Councilmember Kite?
 Councilmember Wingo? I'm present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Or Mr. President? All right, thank you. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you so much.
 I'm pulling a scripture I was, as many of you do, I know Councilmember Golombek and others, if you have classes that you teach, I was teaching one this week and was taken back again to the Pan American Exposition in 1901 and Buffalo dubbed the City of Lights. And I was reminded of a scripture that I used with the Council before a year ago, Matthew 514 says,
 You're the light of the world like a city on a hilltop that cannot be hidden.
 We were called the City of Lights in 1901, but there were some pretty dark chapters for the City of Lights over the century in between then and now. And for our city and for so much of our state, nation, and world, there's been a dark, dark chapter. And I believe it's time to ask the Lord to once again make Buffalo the City of Lights, a city of...
 wisdom in governance, a city of wisdom in education and business and every venue of the city. There are those that are navigating waters in each of our districts that they've never navigated before and they're feeling the pressure of trying to do it in a dark time, a dark place, and they need the light turned on.
 Each of you does in terms of the governance of your council districts and of the city as a whole. But every person in our neighborhoods needs that same light for times and seasons they've never prepared nor imagined would come upon them. So today I just want to pray into that, that the light would come back on for leaders and for everyone who's seeking wisdom, direction in un...
 charted waters and storms that are hitting. Let's pray together. Lord, I was taken back this week again to just the remembrance of the City of Lights moniker on this city more than a century ago. Lord, you know that this last year has been dark, dark for many that are on this call, many that are on the council, many that sit in city government here in Buffalo and in other cities as well.
 And then Lord for leaders in every part of our social fabric and structure. Lord you know that even today there are those that are just calling out and just don't know what to do next, don't know how to survive, don't know how to get to next Friday's payroll. Father we ask now for wisdom, for the light to come on, the light of the way to go, the way to act, the thing to do next.
 Lord, I pray that once again Buffalo would be known as a city of light, that we'd look to you for light, you for a revelation. And Lord, I thank you that now as the council deliberates on the issues of the day, that you'll turn the light on for them. Your revelation and wisdom we ask in your precious son's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council members, any memorials? Council member Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to place in memoriam Richard Haynes, who was an Allentown resident for over four decades and retired from the Buffalo News and the business section. And he was a tremendous asset to my district and to the Allentown community where he served as a longtime Allentown Association president and was a staunch supporter of the organization and building up the membership drive.
 and really making it a wonderful and special place to live. He'll be sorely missed by his wonderful wife, Nan Haynes, and his family members and neighbors and community members. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Council Member DeLongbeck and then Council Member Scanlon.
 Thank you, Mr. President. The Riverside neighborhood lost a wonderful, wonderful woman, Amalia Quinlan, recently married within the past couple of years to Dan Devine. Some of you might know Dan. He was a former City Hall employee. He's been retired for quite some time. He was
 in the law department, but neighbors of mine. She went by Molly. I knew her for gosh, a good 20, 25 years. Always signed my petitions when I went over to her house, just a wonderful lady would always bend my ear and she would remind me, even though she had an Irish last name, that she was Italian and that her family were the,
 some of the founding families from St. Anthony right behind City Hall. But Molly's going to be very, very sorely missed by her son, her grandchildren, her husband Dan, and her many friends and family members, especially at All Saints Church and Northwest Buffalo Community Center. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council President. The South Buffalo family as well as the larger Buffalo community is mourning the loss of Buffalo Police Officer Sean Godious. We lost Sean since our last meeting at the very young age of 32. He was a member of the Buffalo Police Department for the past six years and had a very promising future ahead of him within the department. More importantly than Sean's career, however, was his personality. He
 He every person I've come across in the past two weeks stress how tragic a loss. This was not just because of Sean's age or anything like that, but because of Quite frankly, the light he brought into the world. I recall time I spent with Sean before my time on the council and I can recall every time I came across from an encounter with him having a smile on my face.
 And that has been the overriding sentiment since his passing. Just he had this incredible ability to, again, put a smile on your face just in a few short moments. He is, Sean is going to be sorely missed by the entire community, but in particular his parents, his sisters and his brother. Any others? Yes.
 We are remembering the life of Mr. Lloyd Hargrave, who his son, Buster, does a lot of media work, but Mr. Hargrave participated with
 a lot of the parent and teacher organizations and really working hard for our youth, although his children were adults, very much so. When I was first elected, it was one of the first meetings that I had was with him, and he wanted to make sure that
 you know I paid attention to school board issues so he will be missed and then another Buffalo resident Yvonne Reed one of our deaconess or deaconess in training died at a to me a very early age and leaves behind three children and they will be missed and of course and I'm not sure if we if he had passed by then Judge Hugh Scott who
 who I think everybody knows his background, but all of these people will be missed, including any person who has given their life for our country since our last meeting. We pause at this time for a moment of silence. Thank you. Thank you.
 On a motion by Council Member Revere, second by Council Member Stanley, the minutes of the stated meeting held on February 16th, 2021 are approved. Council Members, you have the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections to late files, we will hear the entire agenda, not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review an item. I believe that we are taking something out of order.
 Yes, Mr. Chair, we're taking item 15 out of CD and item 55 out of order. All right. Item number 15. I'm sorry, clerk, you might have been on mute. Can you hear me? Yes. Item number 15, Bessemer Street easement for Mollenberg Betts. Motion to open the public hearing. Motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Okay.
 This item is in front of us. Is there anyone on the call to speak to this item? Council President, we were going to have someone from law join us for this if there are any questions from council members. However, in addition to that, we've received no written comments or call-ins for the item. Okay. Did anybody have any questions for law on this item? All right. Seeing no questions. Motion to close public hearing. Motion to- Sorry, we can't hear you, Majority Leader.
 Can you hear me? Yes, now we can. Motion to close the public hearing. Motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Councilmember Fialetto. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Item number 55, discharge item 21-156 from the Legislation Committee. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt, seconded by Councilmember Wiggins. Mr. Chair.
 Council Member Wyatt? Didn't know we have to go through and do the roll call for vote. We just approved that one item. Yep, we're just waiting on the clerk. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Bridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes.
 Council member Wyatt. Yes. Item number one, COVID vaccination center at a portion of city owned Delavan Grider Community Center. Motion to approve. Motion to approve second by council member Wingo. Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Ferraletto.
 he said yes council member galambic yes council member nowakowski yes council president pridgen yes council member rivera yes council member scanlon yes council member wingo yes council member wyatt yes item number two genesee gateway historic district motion to send the legislation motion to send to legislation second by council member bowman item number three
 RENIER BAZARRE DOING BUSINESS AS ABBA'S KITCHEN BROADWAY MARKET LEASE. motion to approve items 3, 4, and 5. second by councilmember Nowakowski. councilmember Bowman? yes. councilmember Ferraletto? yes. councilmember Golombek? yes. councilmember Nowakowski? yes. council president Pridgen? yes. councilmember Rivera? yes. councilmember Scanlon? yes. councilmember Wingo? yes.
 Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number six, cash flow summary January 2021. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number seven, notification serial. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Item number eight, permission to hire consulting services. Motion to approve items eight through thirteen. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Councilmember Buhlmann? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombiec? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember White? Yes. Item number 14, Appoint Equipment Operator.
 Motion to receive, excuse me, a motion to send to civil service items 14, 15, 16, and 17. Seconded by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 18, notice of appointment, laborer two. Motion to receive and file items 18 through 20. Seconded by Councilmember Wendell. Item number 21, status change, maintenance assistant. Motion to send to civil service items 21 through 26.
 Second by Councilmember Ferraletto. Item number 27, permission to purchase new police vehicles. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto. He said yes. Councilmember Golombek. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes.
 Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyant? Yes. Item number 28, appoint public safety dispatcher. Motion to send to civil service items 28 and 29. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 30, food store license 1880 Clinton. Motion to send to legislation items 30 and 31. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number 32, food store license 319, Massachusetts. Motion to approve items 32 through 38. Can you scroll up? Yeah, through 38. Say my council member, Noah Kowski. Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Faroletto. Yes. Council member Golombek. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Council member Rivera. Yes. Council member Scanlon. Yes.
 Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 39, BSA CAFR 2019-2020, available on the authority's website. Motion to receive and file items 39 through 42. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 43, concerns traffic at intersection of Genesee and Roslyn.
 motion to send the CD items 42 and 43 and 44. second by councilmember Golombak. mr chair? yes councilmember Riviere. yesterday councilmember joe Golombak had mentioned that he had received calls from constituents and residents in his district regarding not being included as one of the zip codes for the vaccinations that are currently happening
 And I certainly agreed with him. There are a number of council members that have worked with the health equity task force. I believe Council Member Rasheed Wyatt and Council Member Bowman, myself, we have met with them. We're in the process of doing community work.
 uh town hall meetings on zoom i'll be doing one tomorrow at noon with the health equity task force and their goal is to make the vaccination more readily available we understand because of the distribution
 and the logistics of the production and distribution of the logistics of this whole thing. However, we understand that there's a need and there are communities that are very vulnerable and we have to make sure that we speak up on behalf of those communities. We have asked our state legislature to make the vaccination more readily available in the city of Buffalo through the pharmacies, through doctors,
 the pharmacists, the clinicians, the health centers, the community centers, the pop-ups, that we make the vaccination more readily available in all parts of the city of Buffalo, especially in areas that people are very vulnerable and have a history of not receiving health care that they should be receiving. So I joined Councilmember
 Joe Golombic and asking that they include area code 14207. I have had conversations with a number of people that live in that district, in Joe's district. And these are people with underlying conditions are people that are vulnerable. And we wanna make sure that they're included in this. So I certainly support Joe Golombic on this and him speaking out for 14207. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Golombic.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, when I found out what the top 10 zip codes were included in the vaccination program, I have to be honest with you that I was rather shocked that 14207 was not included. I don't begrudge any of the zip codes that got included.
 by any stretch of the imagination, but I do believe in fairness and equity. And what shocked me is that the 14207 zip code had the third highest amount of positive COVID tests
 In Erie County, we have the fourth highest percentage of individuals with COVID. You know, those are not statistics that, you know, I'm thrilled with, but those are statistics that should have assisted us.
 in getting my people from 14207 into the vaccination programs as quickly as possible. It's not like we were eight, nine, 10, 11, where we were borderline areas. I mean, we got hit pretty bad. I know for a while during the summer, I believe that we might've been number one for a period of time. And it was sad and it was frustrating. And the number of people that were sick and that passed away in the district,
 I believe that 14207 deserved to be in that first batch of COVID vaccinations. But that all being said, I'm not complaining, solely complaining about this. I have been in touch with Mayor Brown and with Assemblymember Conrad, who represent
 uh 14207 or at least most of 14207 they have been exceptionally helpful and we've actually come up with you know some solutions that would assist us uh the northwest buffalo community center on lauren avenue
 has the Northwest Neighborhood Health Center located there. And when New York State needed assistance during the COVID crisis, we opened up and had testing in the parking lot. And it's centrally located. And I've spoken to Larry Pernick, the executive director of the center, and to Joanne Hafner from the...
 the health center and both are able, willing and ready to open up Northwest Buffalo Community Center as a spot where people would be able to get the vaccinations. The good news is that the health center has been one of 250 health centers across the entire United States to be chosen to get federal vaccinations.
 So that would be in addition to the vaccines that are being given to New York State. And I was very, very happy to hear that, that Joanne Hafner was on top of everything. I want to thank my colleagues for pushing for this as well. And as I mentioned, this is an equity issue. This is not a, well, we were close. You know, no, this was, we were hurt pretty bad.
 from this and in my humble opinion, my residents deserved to get this COVID vaccination and whether it's Tulale from Riverside or the Burgos family from Grant Street in Black Rock,
 or Dudley and his wife, Carol from Newfield Street, Juanita Anderson from Jasper Parish. These are just some of the people that contacted me and said, you know, what are we going to do? And we need help. And, you know, I want to thank my colleagues for their support.
 assisting in this manner. And hopefully we will get answers from people from New York State, from the task force, to let us know why 14207 was skipped over. When, once again, in my opinion, it should not have been. And I hope that they will step up to the plate and make up and allow the residents in my district
 to be able to get assistance. And I hope that they will use the community center because one of the things that we forget about is we think everybody's got a computer, everybody's on Facebook. Well, you know what? I got a lot of residents. I have an awful lot of residents that don't have computers, that are not computer savvy.
 And they make phone calls at best. And I have a lot of people that have English as a second language. And in some cases, they don't speak English very well. And so they have to rely on family members or others to assist them. And, you know, not everybody has the same abilities throughout the city of Buffalo and we forget that.
 And I don't want my residents or any residents in the city being forgotten. So, you know, once again, thank you. And in particular to Jim Montour and Nina Zesky for putting the material together for me so that I would have facts and figures. I knew that the numbers were pretty bad, but I didn't have the specifics until staff did that work. So thank you.
 Thank you and thank you for reaching out for 14207. I sit on both the state and the local health equity task force so this is going right to the top.
 of the food chain so that we can try our best to avail some vaccines to 14207. Just to note, I was just informed that the zip codes, I believe the 10 zip codes, they were able to apply first and now they're able to apply to the vaccine. So, I'm just going to let you know that that's
 that now it will be open to other zip codes starting Wednesday. Starting Wednesday, it will be open to other zip codes, but having it centrally located in the neighborhood is important.
 Obviously, there are people who will benefit from the one that the state actually chose, not even the Health Equity Task Force, because I want to be clear, the state, the governor's office chose that site and we were informed about it. But we will take this right up to the top and I agree with you, Councilman Golombek, as Councilman Rivera said also. So I support it 100%.
 Did we already move that item? Yes, we did. We got a first and second. Council Member Beard, you're on mute. I'm sorry, can you hear me? Did we already? You got a first and second, Clerk? Yes, we did. All right, next item. Item number 45, meeting transcriptions. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 46, request to speak at Council. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 47, the Buffalo News lawsuit article. This is a late file. Item is open. Mr. Majority Leader, can we send that to legislation, please? Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 48, letter to the Director of OSP regarding Compass House. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 49, special use permit 75 Avery.
 Motion is sent to Legislation City Planning Board, items 49 through 54. Seconded by Councilmember Noah Kelsey. Submissions to the Civil Service. Appoint Laborer 2. Motion is to receive and file items number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet.
 Item number 12, amend certificate of appointment appoint supervising hearing examiner. Motion is to approve. Second by council member Ferraletto. Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombic. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Council member Rivera. Yes. Council member Scanlon. Yes. Council member Wingo.
 Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Finance, item number 13, December 2020 cash flow report summary. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Galambek. Item number 14, Interfund Loan Entertainment District. Motion to approve. Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Councilmember Galambek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski?
 Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyeth. Yes. Legislation item number 16, used car dealer 1267 Bailey. Motion to approve with conditions item 16 and 17. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 council member bowman yes council member of ferraletto yes council member galambic yes council member noakowski yes council president pritchard yes council member rivera yes council member scanlon yes council member wingo yes council member wyatt yes item number 18 traffic concerns motion receiving file items 18 and 19. second by uh majority leader rivera
 Item number 20, special use permit 388 Amherst for tobacco sales. Motion to approve with conditions items 20 and 21. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Mr. President. Council Member Kolumbik. Yeah, Mr.
 Karen Gordon asked me to read in the conditions for item number 20 and I want to thank her for working with me on these. This is going to be sort of a tobacconist that is going to be opening up at the corner of Grant and Amherst.
 And so there are going to be some restrictions that are placed on them, which are going to be very, very similar to what the two cigar stores that I go to on Jefferson and on Virgil have. We are going to limit the hours of operation Monday through Saturday. They can open up between 9 a.m. and 11 p.m.
 On Sunday, they can open up from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Those would be the maximum hours. And also, we are going to put a one-year sunset clause on this license so that in one year, we can come back and revisit it to make sure that there are no problems there. The owner seems like a good guy. I've spoken to him on numerous occasions. Okay.
 Under understands what some of the problems are in that location. The businesses that have come there. Has not been able to. Stay in operation for long, but we're hoping that maybe in this case, the cigar store will be able to, I would like to ask council staff to please make sure that we get this to the mayor as quickly as possible so that we can have immediate. Signage on it so that we can open up as soon as possible. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 22, violations of the city's apprenticeship law. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Galunga. Item number 23, special use permit 572 South Division for tobacco sales. This is a motion to approve the conditions.
 Yes, thank you, sir. And the conditions on this similar, not with the times, but a one-year sunset on this. This is in a heavy residential area. And I think that because of the pandemic,
 there hasn't been a great opportunity for the people in that neighborhood to voice any concerns that they have because the building is owned by a fairly responsible
 landlord, I feel like he will do the right thing by the neighbors. He has made changes as he is expanding his business. But I just didn't want to straddle the neighbors with a tobacco sales shop business.
 that they did not really have enough time, in my opinion, to be able to voice any concerns. So this will have a one year sunset also where we're able to look back and neighbors will have an opportunity or during the time of their permit to sound any alarms or work with the building owner. So that motion, that is the conditions. Roll call.
 council member bullman yes yes council member ferraletto yes council member galamec yes council member nowakowski yes council president pridgen yes council member rivera yes council member scanlon yes council member wingo yes council member wyatt yes resolutions item number 56
 Noah Kowski, Scanlon, hold first ward flag installation fee. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Noah Kowski. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Council Member Kemp?
 Item number 57, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 57 and 58. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 59, Transfer of Funds, Waterfront Shoreline Infrastructure. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. No.
 Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. Did we get a second on item 24 out of education?
 We skipped that item. Skipped it. They forgot to call the river moment. We got an education committee. Come on, man. You want to call item 24? My apologies. Education item 24. A ramen serving halal breakfast and lunch options in Buffalo Public Schools. Can we have a motion to receive and file item number 24, please?
 Motion is to receive a file, second by Council Member Rivera. I believe that was the last item. Sean, you have a lot to juggle. We understand writing down everything and keeping up, and it's quite impressive that you're able to do all of that alone by yourself. Thank you for what you're doing. All right, announcements. Mr. Chair, Council Member, no announcements.
 Council Member Nowakowski asked that we revisit item 24. All righty. Motion is to revisit item 24. I revisit 21. Is it 21? Yes, item 21. The motion is now to revisit item 21. The motion is to revisit item 21, seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to make sure that I read my conditions and the record to just be on point when I approve it is the condition is that the applicant needs to be responsible for the appropriate signage and striping in front of the school because this building is being transformed into a school. And I just want to make sure that they include that in their redevelopment plan to make sure that there's school safety and the infrastructure around the school. Thank you.
 Did you want a camera there too? No camera. Oh. Can I read that into the record? No camera. Yeah. I think we all want to read that into the record right now. Most of us. All righty. Clerk, committee announcements. Sure. Okay.
 Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, March 9th, 2021 at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service, Tuesday, March 9th at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, March 9th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, March 9th at 2 p.m.
 And colleagues, and one of the things that Councilmember Golumbek brought up and start to look into it and I figured it out at the church too, is that he is totally right that many people do not have computers. So we have set up at the church now a phone line where people are able to call in and hear a church. It occurred to me when a senior citizen came up to the church.
 wanting to know how she could be able to hear the service. And she has a flip phone, so she can't get on Facebook. She does not know anything about things like Zoom and all of that. So I'm gonna explore that for our constituents out there
 may not be able to get on a call like this and still be able to hear their government in action. And that may be something that is rather permanent so that our constituents are able to listen wherever they are at if they would like that way of joining our meeting. So hopefully by our committee meetings, I'll have more information on that.
 Any other announcements, Council Members? Council Member White? Thank you, Mr. President. Just want to announce this is specifically for residents that live on Highgate near 308 Highgate. There will be a community Zoom meeting regarding...
 Compass Houses project to put a youth homeless shelter in the community who was not informed of this. And they're outraged by this. And I'm outraged by it. But I want you to contact my office, 851-5165.
 if you want to be a part of the Zoom meeting that's gonna take place on Monday, March 8th at 7 p.m. We'd love to hear from you. I've gotten a lot of complaints and we're gonna try to nip this in the bud if we can. Thank you. All righty. Any other announcements? Seeing no other announcements. Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn, second by the President Pro Temp, Christopher Scanlon. Thank you, everybody.