Leto here. Councilmember Golombek here. Councilmember Nowakowski here. Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority Leader Rivera present. President Pro Tem Scanlon present. Councilmember Wingo present. Councilmember Wyatt here. Quorum is present. We stand for the pledge of the United States of America, which stands for one God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. I'm sure that all of you that have breaking news on your cell phones got the news that a couple of families here in Buffalo are being tested for coronavirus. And I think many of you recognize that those that sit in seats like yours across the state, the nation, and the world are paying close attention to the things that we're paying close attention to here in Buffalo.
 The Bible has a lot to say about troubling times. Every holy book does from every religion. What to do in troubling times, what to do in challenging times. So I picked a single verse from two different chapters. Psalm 127 says, unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchmen stand guard in vain. Amen.
 And then Isaiah 41.10 says, So do not fear, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I'll strengthen you and help you. I'll uphold you with my righteous right hand. I know that as we watch the news and see students coming home from cities around the world, I know that as we watch the news and see students coming home from cities around the world,
 Fearful parents, plane fulls of people quarantined, cruise ships quarantined, and now whatever's happening here in our own city, it's a good time to look to someone higher than us. Would you join me in prayer? Father, I thank you that you are the one who guards this city. I thank you that you do speak to the fear in our lives and try in those days, in those times, to bring our faith into focus.
 father i pray for this city i pray a guard of protection i pray for these two families that are experiencing more than i can imagine and how many connected to them as well lord i pray that our city an international city a border city would even now be protected lord thank you for all those that have come and immigrated from around the world to make buffalo a better place protect us today i ask and then lord just not for just the city but for individuals
 for families, for places of worship, for schools, for gathering points. Lord, let there be protection there as well. Thank you so much for your goodness in troubling times. Lift up our faith above our fear. We pray in your matchless name. Amen. Council Members Memorials, Council Member Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I want to recognize Daniel Oles, who was an organic farmer who provided a lot of organic produce throughout a lot of the restaurants in our city. But why he's significant to the Fillmore District is while he provided to our restaurants, he also provided to the Responsive Love Center, giving a lot of fresh produce to those that are most vulnerable in my district.
 providing that they have access to fresh foods that everybody else does. So that is who I would like to put in a memorial today.
 councilmember bowman thank you council president uh we in february we lost patricia laverne a long time resident of the seneca babcock neighborhood uh patricia was worked for the south side social and athletic club for 40 years she was actually a neighborhood historian and well known throughout the district so i ask that we keep her family in our thoughts and prayers
 Any others? Councilmember Golombet. Thank you Mr. President. Maria Horvath passed away. I grew up with her two children. They were immigrants that came to Buffalo around 1957 from the Hungarian Budapest uprising of 1956. She's going to be very very sorely missed by her son Ron and her daughter Liz. Any others? Councilmember Revere. Thank you very much. I'd like to remember
 Judge Joseph Metina, former Surrey Court judge, who held a very powerful position in the court system. And for his volunteer work, he was the former president of Columbus Hospital, where they served the needs of the most vulnerable people. So he was known both for being in a very influential position, but for his volunteer work in the community as well. Thank you.
 I know that Mike is here. We also remember Marjorie Marcy, Mike's, Mike Marcy's mom. And I was very surprised to see him return so quickly, because I know that has to be tough. But there's a resolution that was signed by a memoriam by all of the council on behalf of your mom. And we pause and dedicate this meeting to the memory of all of those, especially to your mom, Mike.
 And for our servicemen and women who may have given their life since our last meeting, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. What a fucking homeboy. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on February 18, 2020 are approved. Council members, you have the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to the late files?
 Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda and we will be able to stop and pause if you were not able to review one and you need to from the top. Item number one, local landmark 1416 Main Street. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item number two, local landmark 184 West Utica Street. Motion to approve items two through seven.
 to motion to send the CD items two to seven mr. chairman say goodbye councilmember Golombek I I would like to I would briefly like to speak on item number two the landmarking of 184 West Utica this building was torn down permit was allowed to go for demolition had occurred although the presentation board
 decided to send it to us as a recommendation but before it even got to us the building was demolished i would like to work with corporation council to make sure in the future if there is an opportunity for a stay while um
 the processes continue before it gets to the common council i would like to set something in motion to prevent something like this from reoccurring in the future i'd like to work with any council members that might be interested in doing this i supported the preservation of this house it
 Six of the nine criterias. I actually went to the Preservation Board meeting and spoke on behalf of the residents and unfortunately Through this process, and I know it's a complicated process And perhaps a solution might be complicated, but I'd like to come up with the solution that could deal better with this problem Should it reoccur in one of your districts or?
 and prevent homes that should be landmarked from being demolished. So it's going to go to CD. And I know there's another item in regards to 184 West Utica. Thank you. Anyone else? Councilman Golombet.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I'll speak on this rather than the second one that I put in front of us. You know, there was a timeline of events. January 21st, the developer applied for a demolition permit for 184 West Utica. February 27th, the Preservation Board made the recommendation to grant the property as a historical landmark. February 28th, fearing litigation, the City granted the developer a demolition permit. The developer demolished the property that same day.
 on today we have the application in front of us unfortunately does us no good because the property was demolished before the council uh... could even hold a public hearing uh... so seems that those are the issues that are in front of us and thank goodness they don't happen more times uh... than they do uh... the events surrounding what eighty four west utica street highly to break down in the city's policy to protect our historical assets uh...
 It's no secret that I'm one of the, well, Mr. Franczak and I think had 100% voting record with preservation issues over the past many years. I am a supporter of preservation. At the same time, I'm a supporter of development. And I understand that there does need to be a happy medium that is walked between preserving everything and demolishing everything.
 I think that what is most disappointing for me is that it seems like the council was completely left off of this decision. Mr. Rivera and others have stated that in the morning we were under the impression that there was a state on the execution. I found out on Facebook.
 Yeah, I found out on Facebook. I just happened to open up Facebook and was looking at some district-wide stuff, and all of a sudden 184 West Utica popped up.
 This is a complex issue. On one hand, it's necessary to foster an environment which positive and intelligent development is done. On the other hand, we need to protect our many historical assets that make our city a unique and important place. What I'm hoping to do is to work with my colleagues, with the Preservation Board and the administration to update this policy. Items that are sent to the Council from the Preservation Board with the recommendation for landmarking status
 require this council's consideration and the city's policy should reflect that. I don't know if anything, I think if anything it was inadvertent. I don't think that anybody purposely did anything wrong. But I am curious and I'm not going to ask Ms. Gordon right now, but I would like to know, you know, if
 there were any questions that were followed you know if there was anything that was questionable that was followed in uh this determination um i know that there is a policy that goes back to i believe when commissioner toby was here in city hall um and it's a policy in the department but a policy is not necessarily the full force of law i think that some of us in here remember that there was a policy uh in the comptroller's office
 when we were trying to move money from our intern line to the Department of Public Works. That was a policy, and I fought against that policy because it was allowed in the city charter to move money from one section to another. And then I was told, well, we don't feel comfortable, it's our policy. Well, if it doesn't break the city charter, if it doesn't break the law,
 not doing anything wrong and you could move that money. And I want to find out, you know, what happened here and, you know, move forward. You know, and once again, I think that this was, you know, an unfortunate event that occurred, and I want to make sure that it doesn't happen again. Second thing is I did meet on Sunday with Mr. Thielman.
 And I talked to him about, you know, one of the problems is that the preservation community gets beat up quite often for being knee-jerk. You know, all of a sudden, most of us didn't know the significance of 184 West Utica a month or two ago. We did find out about it, and it was somewhat significant, a significant property. As a matter of fact, St. John the Baptist Church in my neighborhood, former Roman Catholic Church, was built by the same man that...
 built the property on West Utica. What I would like to do is something that we've done a little bit in North. We started to categorize properties in the historic Black Rock section part of my district.
 And we had volunteers that went and we started to look up literally every single property. And we looked at every one. We took photographs of many of them so that we would have an idea up front. So if somebody calls me up, at least in that little part of Black Rock, I can go and I can make a phone call or I can quickly check and say, hey, such and such an address is an important address. Here's why. Okay.
 we're a little bit ahead of the curve, but only in that little section. I think that that's something, and I think there's something in the city charter that says that that is ultimately supposed to be done, but I think that's something that we should be looking at working with partners in the preservation community to try to do some sort of a
 designation of properties, not an official designation, but one that would be useful for us and for the administration. So that's the direction that I'm hoping to go with this. And I know some of my colleagues that I've spoken to are interested in moving along this as well, and I'm fully supportive. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Anybody else? All right. Next item. Item number eight, audit management letter.
 Motion to send to finance items 8 through 10. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item number 11, appoint enterprise resource plan and financial systems. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 12, permission to accept funds that enter into agreements, bridge washing. Motion to approve items 12 through 19. Seconded by Councilmember Golombik.
 Item number 20 permission request hatch restaurant complex motion to send to finance but councilmember Nowakowski item number 21 permission to waive formal bidding motion to approve second by councilmember Wyatt item number 22 a point equipment operator motion to send the civil service items 22 23 and 24 my cousin member wing oh
 Item number 25, contract between City of Buffalo and Exxon Enterprise. Motion to send to finance. Second by President Pro Temp, Scanlon. Item number 26, drug asset forfeiture wire transfer. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 27, request approval to purchase new police vehicles. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 28, appoint crime scene technician. Motion to send to civil service items 28 through 33. Second by Council Member Bolton.
 Item number 34, acceptance of B class to City of Buffalo. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 35, Fuster License, 243 Ontario Street. Motion to send legislation to items 35 and 36. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 37, Property Manager License. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 38, Used Car Dealer, 265 East Amherst. Motion to send the legislation.
 264 264 I'm sorry second by councilmember no Akowski and a number 39 second quarter gap 2019 2020 motion to send finance my customer what item number 40 a man performance bond waiver motion to approve items 40 and 41 my customer number what I don't number 42 late charge policy motion to send finance items 42 and 43 my customer
 Item number 44, acting time. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Columbus. Item number 45, parking department obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve items 45 through 49. Second by President Prokosik and Scanlon. Item number 50, liquor license notice.
 Motion to receive and file items 50 through 53. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item number 54, notice of attention request to rename Delavan Grider Community Center. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 55, notices of appointment. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nook.
 Item number 56, notices of appointment. Tent provisional permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 57, concerns regarding 184 West Utica Street. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 58, planned unit development for 975 and 1005 Furman Boulevard. Motion to send to legislation, city planning board items 58 and 59. Second by President Pro Tem Scammer.
 Submission list. Civil Service Committee. Item number one, appoint firefighters. Motion to approve item number one and two. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number three, notices of appointments. Improvisional or permanent. Motion is to receive a file. Item number three. Second by Councilmember Frioletto.
 Community Development, item number 486, St. Joseph Amendment. Motion to approve items 4 and 5. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 6, Burlington Avenue Block Club Concerns. Motion to receive and file item number 6. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 7, Pastor Garmin and NMBC City Owned Lot. At the request of the District Councilman, we're going to recommit item number 7. Second by Council Member White. Item number 7.
 Item number 8, report of cell 97, Grider. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 9, public outreach for hep C reduction and prevention. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 10, report of cell 71, Longnecker. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 11, report of cell 68 and... Is this the correct address?
 99999 easy to cut. Motion to approve 11 and 12. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 13, repairs to sidewalks and curves along Walden Avenue. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 14, support healthy corner store initiative within corporate stores. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member White. Item number 15, speed limit reduction.
 Motion to receive and file 15, 16, and 17. Second by Council Member Fairland. Item number 18, report of cell 859, East Elephant. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 19, report of cell 195, Victoria. Motion to receive and file 19, 20, and 21. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Council Member Wingo has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Item number 19, the purchaser of this property, the reason why we're receiving and filing this is because the purchaser is no longer interested in this property. All right. For the record, next item. Legislation, item number 23, special use permit 67 North Street. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Golombet. Okay.
 all right go back to community development item number 22 concerns family dollar dollar store and dollar general motion to recommit motion is did we already receive a file no okay no second by council member for your letter back to legislation item number 24 fooster license 1614 jefferson motion to approve with conditions and my council member wingo who has the floor
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Item number 24, the conditions will be submitted to the clerk's office that have been set forth by the district at large for all food stores opening up. This was a prior food store who was transferring ownership, who needs to apply, and they have agreed to adhere.
 to the same conditions of all food stores in the Madison District. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Next item. Item number 25, Loudon House License 25 Suite, AKA 244 Memorial. Motion to approve items 25 through and including 30. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number 31, special use permit 520 Broadway. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Noah Cousin. Item number 32, supplement to application for plan unit development. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 33, used car dealer 1164 Michigan. Motion to approve with the conditions set forth by the Council President. Second by Councilmember White.
 Block it. Item number 34, identifying antiquated sections of the Buffalo City Charter. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Resolutions. Item number 60, City of Buffalo Art and Public Places Program. Motion to adopt items 60 and 61. Seconded by Council Member Fairletter. Item number 62, OFW Neighborhood Parade Flag. Motion to approve.
 Second by Councilmember Bowman. And Councilmembers, my computer for some reason, if you click in to speak, it's just stuck on there. So if I don't see you, please just get my attention. It's not coming up. Next item. Item number 63, scheduling the annual reporting deadline for school speed zones. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 64, fee waiver for maple syrup event. Motion to adopt item 64 through 66.
 I'm sorry, majority leader 64 is a fee waivers approval. Motion to approve.
 All right, so motion to approve 64, second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 65, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt item 65 and 66. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 67, Budget and Personnel Amendment. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 68, change of the location of the Bailey School Speed Cameras. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 69, approving the school speed zone camera program. Motion to adopt. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 70, ordinance amendment chapter 479, traffic. Motion to send legislation. Second by council member Wyatt who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I'm hopeful that, I know this is going to legislation, and we've been getting a lot of complaints in our office about the speed zone cameras, school zone cameras, and I'm real happy to see that the beacons are going in place because I think that is going to
 help people tremendously. However, I still think there's some things that we can refine to make sure that this process is something that the public respects and gets the focus back on what the focus is really about, and that's the safety of our children.
 There have been complaints from constituents regarding these tickets that they've been getting, the warnings that they're getting, and the possibility of getting tickets in the future. However, I do believe that the beacons will be a huge help. And I think that this ordinance amendment referring to the times of arrival and departure will be another help. Because at the end of the day, we're responsible for meeting the needs of the people.
 We don't always have the answers. However, we can't clarify it when we listen to them. And I think this is something that we've put forth to listen to them. They felt a certain type of way about how we put this forward. It could have been done a little bit more concisely, but I do think we're on the right track to kind of make it right. But I'm looking forward to folks who are going to be coming out because I've gotten a lot of people that want to come and speak about it because they feel very.
 I'm deeply about how this was put out and that this resolution will at least give them a peace of mind that number one, the focus is back on the children and it's not about a money grab for the public. All right. Thank you. And I know I did have conversations. The administration is willing to hear also. So that's a good thing. So it's not a.
 a battle of counsel and administration i did meet this morning with the mayor and so they're willing to listen and i think that's important so people out there should know that they're not being ticketed uh right now they're being warned
 until things are in place that people would really know they're in a speed zone so that was really important so I was really pleased to hear that and the mayor did commit that before they do start issuing tickets where there will be a fine that he will notify this Common Council so that then we could also help in getting out the words to our constituents
 so that was I think that we're moving all of us in the right direction and probably somewhat in sync so I was glad to hear that this morning and and he'll come out later with some other changes possibly if we can work those changes out together as a body and so we'll go forward with some
 All right. Anything else on it? Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, March 10, 2020 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil services, Tuesday, March 10, 2020 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, March 10, 2020 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development, Tuesday, March 10, 2020 at 2 p.m. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Council member Wingo. Council member Wingo.
 Again, we just want to invite the city of Buffalo to the Mastin District Stakeholders Meeting, which is every second Saturday of every month except June and November. In June, we have the Juneteenth. We're celebrating, of course, Africans in America. And then, of course, in November, we have our Thanksgiving brunch. So every other second Saturday, 830, 677 East Delavan. Even in August? August? August.
 Yeah. Wow. Even in August. That's something. My folks love, they listen, they love coming together. They love meeting and eating. So we have our meeting every month. But other than that, again, 830-8677 East Delavan. We serve you a very, very healthy hot breakfast and we share information amongst all the professionals and organizations and businesses in the district. So we're looking forward to everyone coming out and enjoying the fellowship and enjoying the food and the information. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Got it. Councilmember Nowakowski.
 So the Fillmore District is now going to compete for the Stakeholders Breakfast. The Fillmore District will be holding our community stakeholders breakfast on March 21st. Howard Johnson, legislator for the 1st District, will be sponsoring it, and it will be at 664 Fillmore Avenue. I encourage my colleague of the Madison District to come and try our food.
 because it will be a great time. So thank you. Mr. Chair, I will be there. You will be there. What time? What time? 8.30 a.m. Do you get up that early? Oh.
 Councilmember, there's a lot going on. Councilmember Wyeth, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to invite the residents and business owners in the University and Lovejoy districts that we're going to be doing our annual license renewal meeting next week. March 10th and March 12th is a Tuesday and a Thursday from 5.30 to 7.30.
 All businesses know that they have to participate if they're getting a license renewal. We've been doing this for a couple of years now, and it's worked very, very good because the community comes out and feel empowered. And before we give someone a license, that the community has input, as well as the businesses themselves. If they have some issues where we have the police department there or a corporation council is there, so they have everybody there to kind of answer a question before they leave out. But it's been working very good every year, and I –
 thank my colleague for continuing it what his former boss used to do because it's again it's an opportunity to empower the community to make sure that businesses that work in our community are making sure they represent the community well thank you anyone else
 Councilmember Bowman. Not to be outdone, Lovejoy is also having a shareholders breakfast and it's going to be March 28th Saturday at 9 a.m. at the Schiller Park Senior Center 2057 Genesee Street so please come out I know a lot of residents wanted something like this on Lovejoy so we're excited to have it thank you. I'm just gonna go to your meetings and then just save them Saturday breakfast there you go don't have to go to a restaurant for a whole month all right
 nothing else motion to adjourn motion to adjourn second by councilmember why we adjourn