Allen. Present. Council member Wingo. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Stand for the pledge. I'll stand for it, okay. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Welcome our chaplain to the floor. Well, here we are.
 All of our lives changed dramatically and in unexpected ways. And yet those of us who look to God recognize that he's with us in times that are unlike any we've ever faced. Several weeks ago, Council Member Faroletto and I were talking and he wanted to bring Father Joe in to pray. And we said, wouldn't St. Patrick's Day be a wonderful day to have Father Joe come? And he's not able to be here today. So I met a few thoughts and a couple of scriptures.
 You've heard on TV networks the phrase, no fear, not responding in fear. I was on a conference call this morning with several hundred pastors, with Council President Pridgen, and his voice reassuring all of us, and our voices hopefully reassuring him. The leaders of our region are in this together.
 You may not have chosen the ship, but we're all on board at one time together, and we're going to get through to the other side. But staying calm in the storm is so important. For those of us who fly a lot, if you're going into a storm and you're flying, you don't want the captain to come on and panic to talk to you about the difficulty of the turbulence. You want him to talk about the plan of getting through to the other side.
 And I want to remind you that each of you is setting an atmosphere for your constituents. There's fear and panic everywhere in the nation and the world, but each of you leaders is setting atmosphere. And I want you to do it in the right way. Two scriptures are these. The first one from 1 John says, There's no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear. There's no fear in love.
 in love, that perfect love drives out fear. 1 John 4, 18. And then Isaiah 41, 10. So do not fear, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I'll strengthen you and help you. I'll uphold you with my righteous right hand. God himself says, don't fear, I am with you. Let's look to the Lord together. Father, I thank you for each of these who serves.
 in leadership of our city and for so many other regional leaders that are constantly in front of microphones
 the County Executive, the Mayor, the Health Directors, the School Superintendent, each of these Council Members, the Council President, and all the others that are gathered from emergency responders. Lord, you know that what lies ahead for hospitals and the workers there, for police, for fire, for EMS, EMT, so many that will be involved in working through the details of this over the next several weeks.
 Father, right now we declare that your perfect love moves fear away. Lord, we look to you, the God of love, to do that. We take seriously these words in Isaiah 41 that we do not have to fear because you are with us. I declare that you're strengthening and helping each of the council members. You're upholding them with your righteous right hand. Lord, I reach out now to the citizens of this city.
 parents who are feeling the pressure of children unexpectedly home from school, hourly wage workers that are no longer going, restaurant owners that have a business, and so many others that are being impacted. Lord, give wisdom as these government leaders have to make crucial decisions about the citizen that are in unexpected crisis. Lord, let your wisdom come today.
 and your perfect love. And I pray that each of them, as they set atmosphere for their districts and beyond, let it be an atmosphere that casts out fear. I declare it so now, in your precious name. Amen. Council members, any memoriams? The Buffalo Common Council would like to recognize the following members of our community who were lost recently and dedicate this meeting to their memory. Ms. Ivy Danielle Penn, Rosetta Wyndham Blake,
 and Albert Scott. And since our last meeting, we have had no losses in our service men or women, which is wonderful to hear. So with that being said, we'll take a moment of silence. Thank you to our President Pro Temp for getting additional updates as the situation continues to change by the minute. This being our first meeting since the
 Since Colbert 19 has begun to spread in our community. We will change I'm asking for Relaxation of some of the at least one of the rules in which we usually don't have people speak during Common Council I have asked Mr. Mahaffrey come down on a motion by mr. Revere second by miss Scanlon the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 3rd 2020 are approved late files are before you are there any objections to the late files and
 Hearing none, we will proceed with the entire agenda.
 not taking away your right to pause. For those who may be watching, the council is doing the responsible thing. If you would notice, when the cameras do go around, the normal seats of the council members, which are usually very close because we like sitting so close to one another, have been spread out across our chambers. Also, I'm going to ask that door to remain closed, please. Also, our meetings...
 Will our council meeting at this point with the public not being able to come to City Hall? Will be held without the public here But it will remain public through the internet through our Facebook page through the city's website and on spectrum cable as always at this point committee meetings are suspended
 and the reason we are suspending them is our commitment to hear from the public on items. There is an item that we are going to send to committee, although you will hear an explanation of the item. The reason we're doing that...
 is that the items must move sooner or later. It can still be discharged from committee, but I want to make sure that the public has an opportunity to weigh in on the item. So I've asked Mr. Mahaffey to come talk about the item. We're not asking for any decision and then talk to council members over the next two weeks, but we will have a mechanism where the public will
 will be able to write us, email us, write us, and call us with comment before this council makes a decision on something this large. And this is the first time we've had to do something like this. It's also the first time we've lived through this.
 On items that we feel are very important, that they have public input like this one, we'll make that very plain. And I ask Mr. Mahaffey to come down and speak for the record. Majority Leader, what's the item? I ask to take it out of order. That would be item number...
 5. Motion to take item number 5 out of order. Second by Council Member Friar-Leto. Item number 5, request to approve report of cell 489 and what? Items open. All right. Commissioner, you're here. And again, for the record, we're not asking for a vote today. It will go to committee. But depending on how long we're out of committee, this may have to be discharged. Commissioner. Go ahead. Kelly.
 Council President, honorable council members, thank you very much for this opportunity. My name is Brendan Mahaffey. I'm the Executive Director of the Mayor's Office of Strategic Planning. So I'm here to speak on the item of the Gallagher ramp and the nature of the sale. It has gone through all standard procedures with the Division of Real Estate. It has gone through the Appraisal Review Board.
 and a value of $1.7 million has been assigned to the ramp. This agreement includes a number of the community benefits that were negotiated as part of the planned unit development as well that was approved by this body several months ago at this point in time. So for instance, you'll see for the construction and the rehabilitation of the Gallagher ramp,
 that there are the MWBE and workforce requirements of 25-5, which are standard in the contracts negotiated by the administration. In addition, a novel aspect that has been included, that there was a commitment by the developer
 to have 20% of the rental units affordable to individuals earning no more than 80% of the area median income we have created both an enforcement and a monitoring mechanism in this agreement which has us monitoring those units that are not paid for through traditional means of affordable housing finance so if there is a privately financed unit that is a
 Uh, um, uh, uh, uh,
 that unit does not have the standard requirements of monitoring that comes with federal and state funds, the City of Buffalo will be able to monitor that unit and there will also be penalties associated with that if they do not meet that. So that is novel that is in this. We believe that it reflects extensive community conversation that the Council members and others have led, or the Council member and others have led to again reflect what they have heard from the community is critical and essential.
 We are asking for a expeditious review, just because the procedure is different now in this new situation that we find ourselves in. The $1.7 million is obviously an extremely important source of revenue for the City of Buffalo. There are a lot of revenue sources that are changing at this point in time, so it's also being considered in that context.
 Again, we believe that the agreement as it's presented to you does reflect what the community conversation has been. And also with the changing nature of the finance market as well, we feel it is important to keep this going forward.
 so that to the extent that we have the community support for this, that we are able to keep the construction going and the individuals working on these job sites as well. So with that context, again, thank you very much, Council President and the Council members, Majority Leader.
 for giving me the opportunity to give a broad overview of this agreement and express the administration's sense of urgency that this is important not only for the overall development project, but also for the revenue that is associated with it for the city of Buffalo at this time. Thank you. Council Member Revere. Thank you very much, President. I've been involved in this Women and Children's Hospital project
 the state.
 brendan mahaffey is correct we've had numerous community meetings and we do have an mou we do have a pud which i supported i supported the zoning map amendments i support the townhouses the affordable housing components mwbe but one thing i did do is i committed to the residents that along the way as this process moved forward i would keep them engaged i certainly support it i understand uh
 that city wants to sell off its assets and it's being underutilized. And I agree with you. There's a public portion of this that we have to honor and we have to maintain that integrity. And so I'm going to ask the public, if you have...
 any letters, if you want to email us, if you want to call us, you have an opportunity to do this because we will be moving forward on this in the near future because I agree we're trying to develop momentum for the projects that are going to be at that location, but we give the community and the residents an opportunity to voice their concerns or their support for it. As Brendan mentioned, many of the block clubs are in support
 the project itself I've been engaged my state my staff has been engaged as well so I'm looking forward for the next week to talk to people and certainly move on this in the near future thank you exactly and comes a majority leader they can call if they can't write in somebody might be watching they want to weigh in on this they can call councils our council staff at
 851-5105 851-5105 then go to the city website they can write us an email comes I guess
 brendan mentioned do you want to yeah just explicitly to the council members point i one of the other community aspects that was important was the reservation of spaces for the public in the ramp the entire first floor of the ramp will be reserved for public parking so it's very important we have been keeping an eye on how many members of the public are parking in the ramp over the since the hospital has been closed it's a very few
 20, 30 in that neighborhood, we're talking over 150 spaces that are reserved for the public in the ramp. So that was, again, a very important aspect of this agreement that was negotiated. So again, through this process, we have worked to identify those issues that people felt were important and we have included those in this agreement. Excellent. Thank you.
 if you don't have the ability to email or you prefer to call and your comments will be annotated and submitted for the record at 851 5105 Contact councilmember Revere's office or any councilmember, but it is in the Niagara District so I prefer they contact you and email or carbon copy all of us If they prefer so we'll make it available
 do everything in our power to hear from people and not simply move forward on something this big without hearing from our constituents. All right. Motion. Motion to send the finance. Anybody else? I'm sorry. I really apologize.
 Councilmember Friar-Lettel. Thank you. I just had a quick question for Brendan Mahaffey. Does the the agreement for 1.7 million dollars, is that negotiable like at any point? So if for some like the stock market, seeing what the stock market has done and everything that's happening lately, if we vote on this in a month can, is the
 price still going to be $1.7 million? Do we have the ability to keep it at this place? I just want to see how that, your thoughts on that.
 We go through our standard of process with the appraisal. So this is the appraised value to the extent that the project proponent now says that it's not worth that value because of an overall market collapse or something of that nature. We would ask that it go through an appraisal process. Again, at that point in time it would delay us, obviously, in terms of
 when we would be able to act on the item. But we have our rules and procedures that we have to honor and I believe that would be one with the appraised value that we'd have to do. So again, that wouldn't be determined by us, that would be determined by a third party appraiser taking into account the market at that point in time.
 And do you so do you think in if this was voted on in a month or six weeks? I'm just looking for some guidance on the process and I know this is a council This is completely a council process, but I'm wondering the real estate
 portion of this process like if the if the council votes on this in two weeks or in one month is that price set or Then do you read that that price is set for the council? We don't need to resubmit an item to this body In the future if the price was going to be different. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? All right motion to send finance which is in the finance second by councilmember fear letter. I
 From the top. Item number one, submission of monthly report February 2020. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number two, Heritage Point. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number three, report of sale 117 Cortland. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number four, report of sale 519 Dodge. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Wendland.
 Item number six, rescind sale of 447 Berkshire. Motion to approve item six through eight. Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item number nine, appoint internal auditor. Motion to send civil service. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number ten, change of contract for Bird Island. Motion to approve items 10 through 24.
 Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 25, appoint street worker. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Friuletto. Item number 26, donation acceptance for hot dog bailout system. Motion to approve items 26 through 29. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 30, appoint budget examiner. Motion to send to civil service items 31 through 29.
 through 34 Item number 35 landmark determination of 57 tele has the place and 76 soldiers motion to approve items 35 through 37 At a number 38 secondhand dealer license 1547 hurdle motion to send legislations item 38 through 41. I
 Second by Councilmember Norco. Item number 42, New York State Government Relations Services Contract Extension. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 43, approval to end winter parking restrictions. This is a late file? Yes. It's saying we discussed it. Motion to approve? Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golombeck.
 Item number 44, permission to enter into a contract for school bus on-camera services. The motion is sent to finance. Seconded by Council Member Fairletter. Item number 45, requested information, speed, and data. Motion is sent to legislation, items 45 through 48. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 49, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval and disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 49 through 52. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 53, notice of appointment.
 Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Winkle. Item number 54, notices of appointment, seasonal and flat. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Winkle. Item number 55, notices of appointment, temp provision on permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by... Second by...
 Councilmember Scanlon. Miscellaneous, item number 56, DMV report on our auto tech program. Motion to send to education. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 57, homeroom resolution. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 58, Mortgage and Default Property Registry Letter. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 59, Local Landmark for 184 West Utica Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item number 60, 3148 Main Street. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item number 61, Consumption of Alcohol in Public Places. Motion to send to Legislation. Second by Council Member Golombet.
 item number 62 school speed zone from residents motion to send the cd second by council member why petitions item number 63 special use 30 east amherst for amusement facility indoor motion to send legislation city planning board item 63 through 74. second by council members and submission list civil service item number one appoint enterprise resource plan and financial systems officer civil service
 Motion is to approve item 1 through and including 10. Second by Council Member White. Item number 11, notices of appointment, sent provisional and permanent. Motion is to receive a file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Finance Committee, item number 12, permission to request for Hatch Restaurant Complex. Council President, number 12.
 Motion is to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt with conditions. And for the record, those conditions are that there be designated parking spots for the restaurant complex and that
 the there be a entry policy into the marina especially during moments of high occupancy of canal side that must be agreed upon with the council before the res the restaurant opens and that was agreed upon with uh the commissioner and we we see putting that in the record okay is that good second by councilmember why
 Item number 13, contract between City of Buffalo and Exxon Enterprise. Motion to approve items number 13 and 14. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Community Development, item number 15, local landmark 184 West Utica Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 16, report of sale 86 Herman. Motion to approve item 16 through and including 20. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 21, request to rename the Delamond Grider Community Center. Recommit.
 second by councilmember wing oh and I'm number 22 Buffalo Maritime Center motion to receive and file second by councilmember wing oh and I'm number 23 renaming a Delavanque writer Community Center motion to recommit second by councilmember wing oh and I'm number 24 concerns schools on cameras motion to receive and file items 24 through and including 30 second by councilmember fear
 Vera Leto. Legislation, item number 31, food store license 243 Ontario Street. Motion to approve items 31 and 32. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 33, changing the location of the Bailey School speed camera. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Wingo has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The motion is to adopt
 But I believe there are several issues that I would like to address regarding changing locations of cameras. I believe we are going to set a very dangerous precedent if we should begin moving cameras in school zones, particularly in Madison. There are three that affect my residents that are up and taking pictures, even though they're deactivated right now.
 I believe we will be setting a very dangerous precedent due to the fact that the cameras are helping calm traffic in certain areas. The fact that we are getting an upwards of 80% compliance, which means the areas are becoming safer. The fact that students who are walkers and families who are walkers are protected
 to a higher degree when the speed limit is 15 miles an hour in certain areas. Moving cameras, I believe, is not prudent because of the fact that it just doesn't affect one street because when we start moving cameras, it affects the traffic patterns on other streets so that drivers can divert the cameras on the main streets. And we've seen that the cameras are catching folks going
 in speeds of more than 50 miles an hour. And we know for a fact that the survival rate for a person who was hit at 30 miles an hour is very low in comparison to a person, God forbid, if anyone should get hit, to a person who is getting hit by a car going 50 miles an hour. I believe that we should leave the cameras where they are,
 because again, I truly believe that if we don't leave them where they are, we are going to compromise other areas. And of course, when folks divert traffic stops or when the police are at certain areas, they speed along other streets that have no traffic calming measures. So for those reasons, again, with the danger of setting a dangerous precedent, because what's to say if another district
 Black Club doesn't come and petition us to change or move their camera. Now we set a precedent, and I believe it would be a very, very, very terrible mistake for us to begin moving cameras after they've already been placed. And then there's also the cost associated with moving the cameras to another location. So for those reasons, we're going to be recording the negative on this resolution. Court Councilmember Wingo in the negative? Yes.
 Anyone else? All right. Motion passes. Did I give it a second? Second by Councilmember Wyatt, I believe, if it wasn't. Next item. Item 34, Ordinance Amendment for Chapter 479, Traffic Ordinance. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Scanlon. I'd like to be recorded the negative. Record Councilmember Scanlon negative. Record Councilmember Wingo in negative. Record Councilmember Golombik in the negative. Motion passes. Next item. Next item.
 Item number 35, cease and desist letter. Motion to receive and file items 35 through and including 39. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Resolutions, item number 75, fee waiver for movie nights in a park. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 76, assessing COVID-19 prevention measures. Motion to receive and file.
 Okay, so this is yeah, that's the one you tell my was receiving file a CD So it's receiving file councilman Bowman second by councilmember Bowman I don't number 77 funding complete streets with schools on revenue motion to send the legislation Second by councilmember Noah Kowski. Did you want the floor? I don't number 78 trailblazers sign for Agnes main motion to approve second by councilmember wingle I
 Item number 79, support New York State's CLCPA and Climate Action Council's emission. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fira Leto. Item number 80, rename and delve in Grider Community Center. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 Item number 81 commission commissioner of deeds motion to adopt saying by council member Wingo Announcement of committee meetings all council committee meetings will be postponed until further notice Council members. Well, probably no announcements What do you have? The Mastin district I know this pains a lot of people it doesn't pain me it probably pains me the most to have to announce that the Mastin district is
 Well, now to be hosting the Mastin Stakeholders Meeting for the month of March or for the month of April. And it also pains me to report that we won't have the Easter egg hunt this year either. But we will make up for these events somehow, someway later throughout the year. So please, everyone, bear with us. I know that you all have come to expect the best hot breakfast on the second Saturday in the city of Buffalo.
 But this month and next month, we will not be able to feed the community and give them great information and share in wonderful fellowship. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the time. Not a problem. My radar took you got a announcement.
 No, no cancellations. Everything in university is canceled. All meetings, all 28 of them. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes, I also just want to state for the record that the Fillmore District stakeholder breakfast is canceled for Saturday, as well as the ribbon cutting for the Easter ceremony at the Broadway Market next Thursday. I think it's important to note that we should be getting takeout from our local restaurants and our districts to support them in solidarity in this really tough time.
 Absolutely. Thank you. Councilmember Bowman, yours is cancelled also? Yes, our shareholders meeting at Schiller Park is cancelled as well as most of our events and block clubs.
 Same thing in Ellicott and I think it is a responsible thing for us to do and I echo the words of Councilmember Nowakowski. We do have small businesses that still need to survive. And those businesses are not carrying the COVID, you know, that we know of. We don't know who is actually. But at the end of the day, some of our residents who depend on the tips, who depend on us,
 buying a sandwich, we encourage people to do that and support us, especially our small