Are they going to recommit it? Who's doing that? I mean, we should have a determination now. Anything that else is good is like this. Whose is that? The South District. If you don't know, you can say I differ from the District. but he hasn't made his mind up, so you'd better defer to the witnesses and the staff. Thank you, thank you very much. Hang on one second here. Leah, one second, please. As I mentioned this past weekend was St. Patrick's Day, and it's a proud time of the year for Irish Americans to acknowledge and recognize our history and our culture, our music, our dance, our literature, things of that nature, but also introduce it to another generation of people. And I want to thank the three of you for coming in and doing that to a larger than usual audience. So thank you very much for being here today. I have certificates of recognition for all of you. One here for Leah. Thank you. And for Matt. And for Charlie. And again, thank you for coming in and playing for us today. It was a real treat to have you. Thank you so much. Can we get a picture? I'd now like to welcome our Majority Leader to the podium to kick off our, it's a busy month march here, and to welcome her to the podium to kick off our Women's History Acknowledgements. Thank you. Majority Leader, Halton Pope. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Thank you, Council President. And I really want to thank the woman of the group. She has an amazing name, Leah. Maybe it's just me. I feel that way. I don't know. Today, for Women's History Month, we are honoring some amazing women of distinction. And here in City Hall, working... collectively are my colleagues and I we have all chosen some amazing women to acknowledge on the floor of this august body but not just in this building not just here on this floor but without throughout this entire building so this week you will see on the first floor in the lobby working together with the administration council staff thank you special thank you to Taisha and Selena and and Lamia and others, we have curated a group of women who have changed the society as a whole right here from Buffalo and Erie County. You'll be able to see them highlighted on the first floor of the lobby. So we want you to go visit that once it's up and going, we'll have that as a constant every March going forward. So that'll be throughout the month of March beginning next year. for the rest of this month, we'll be honoring these women who had the opportunity to celebrate their achievements, their contributions, and resilience of these remarkable women. They've, they are in their fields of academia, we'll be highlighting women who've, Celebrating their fields of science, politics, arts, and humanities, business, and community service. Their trailblazing spirits to encourage to break barriers and make it possible for any of us to be here. For my colleagues, and that and I to join this body of gentlemen after ten years. And to- Today we will recognize the leadership abilities and advocacy efforts that allow these women to support their causes. They championed gender equality, social justice, environmental sustainability, resilience and perseverance. And so to start this, though my initial person from Ellicott is unfortunately sick, we'll acknowledge her. in two weeks as the first woman to represent the Ellicott District and the first woman to serve as controller for the city of Buffalo. We will focus on her in two weeks. I want to honor these two remarkable women who serve us as city council and the city of Buffalo. The first of which I'd like to honor is our city clerk, Tiana Mark. Tiana has etched her name in the annuals of Buffalo's history as the city's first female clerk, achieving this historic milestone at the youthful age of 29 years old and further distinguishing herself as the youngest individual to hold this esteemed title. She's a proud Buffalo Public School graduate. She embarked on her journey in public service 12 years ago within the halls of this great building, starting as an intern under Mastin. Council member, Damone Smith, and swiftly rising through the ranks and serving as a legislative aid for the Master District and later as his Chief of Staff, the Senior Legislative Aid. She assumed the pivotal role as Deputy City Clerk in 2015, where she laid the groundwork for her eventual appointment as City Clerk in 2019, demonstrating her unwavering commitment to public service and her dedication to upholding the integrity of our city's governance. Throughout her educational and political endeavors, Tiana has been the recipient of numerous awards, a testament of her tireless efforts and steadfast commitment to uplifting her community and advocating for positive change. Tiana Marks has been instrumental in advancing legislation for fair employment, screening for felons known as Ban the Box, and has been constantly and consistently demonstrated her commitment to justice, equity, and the well-being of all members of our community. Now, therefore, let it be proclaimed by the City of Buffalo Common Council, on behalf of all of its citizens, we hereby honor and commend Tiana Clarks for her historic, her story. achievements, unwavering dedication, public service, and tireless advocacy for a better and more inclusive Buffalo. We commend her trailblazing spirit and her exemplary leadership and her profound impact on our city's history and future. Ladies and gentlemen, our City Clerk, Tiana Marks. Thank you. Thank you again, Majority Leader, for this honor. Honestly, I was not expecting that. The only thing that probably gave it away is having my grandmother here when I walked through the door. She loved her city, but I'm quite sure she wouldn't be here on a Tuesday at 2 o'clock. I want to honestly say thank you so much. One of the things I wanted to tell, you don't really hear before and I'm so happy that we have two women to join a council. But prior to that, I became in 2019, which is coming up on five years that I became the city clerk. I was voted in by nine men, in which we know in political science and a political arena, these ladies know it's a predominantly men field, but really to see the men here, some of them are still servants, some of them have gone away, but really without hesitation come in to ask me to become the city clerk. I also think my predecessors, Jerry Shalinski, Charlie, Michonne, I really appreciate everything that happened. It wasn't an easy road and it's still not. I mean, when you look at it, who knew I was going to be battling a pandemic? Who knew roughly after that we would have unfortunately that active shooter situation of 514 and have to deal with that in death certificates. But it's been a role and it's things that I've had prepared myself. I honestly want to thank my mom, my dad, my godmother, my sisters, and everything for just always being with me and supporting me in this journey. It's been amazing, and I can't wait to hear the other wonderful women that's being honored today. And thank you again, council members. I truly appreciate it, council president. And I'm about to get emotional, so I'm going to leave, but thank you so much. And she turned the mic off. She must work here. The other person we are going to honor today is another individual who has served this honorable body with grace and distinction. And sometimes when you work in government, our eyes have to be colder, especially as women. And then as women of color, we're oftentimes overlooked and misunderstood. Sometimes we can be a little bossy and misunderstood in that capacity as well because we have to tell people what to do. Tiana tells us what to do. We listen. We listen. sometimes reluctantly, this young lady does it as well, and she does it with grace. And so it is my honor to acknowledge Ms. Taisha Elizabeth St. John. Tyesha is our Deputy Chief of Staff, or Council Staff. She's a proud native of Buffalo, New York, and has exemplified the values of leadership, education, and community service throughout her extraordinary journey, embodying the spirit of excellence and dedication. Taisha's commitment to academic excellence has been recognized through numerous accolades, including her inclusion in the Business First 30 Under 30, Changemakers 30 Under 30, and recipient of the prestigious scholarships such as the Travers Collins Scholarship and the Heidi Raphael Scholarship, and her recognition in Who's Who in America's College and University. As Deputy Chief of Staff for the Buffalo Common Council, Taisha contributes to the governance of our city, bringing her expertise and passion for public service to the benefit of the residents of Buffalo. In her pivotal role as Executive Director for the Miss Buffalo Scholarship Organization within the Miss America Opportunity Program, Taisha demonstrated... demonstrates her commitment to empowering young individuals and supporting educational initiatives, thereby shaping the future leaders of our community. Whereas, to Aisha Elizabeth St. John's, Outstanding achievements have been recognized with merit from award from a college and business first community all star awards, amongst others highlighting her unwavering commitment of excellence and service. Now therefore let it be proclaimed by the city of Buffalo Common Council on behalf of all of its citizens that we hereby honor and commend Taisha. for her exemplary leadership and dedication to education and commitment to community development through Women's History Month and beyond. Taisha was incredibly instrumental to me. I first met this young lady when I first started with the majority leader. I think she had just started. with the university council member, and I just started working with her. I was outside at a water fountain. I think she was just taking pictures. I'm like, I really like her. I don't know her, but I like her. And so now I get an opportunity to work with her hand in hand. She's amazing. Ladies and gentlemen, let's please give a warm, warm applause for Taisha. Hi everyone. Hi, council staff, you had this really well. So, but thank you so much everyone here. You guys believed in me, especially the council who voted me in in the past, council president. I remember our conversation. So thank you guys so much. This is a shocker, but it's kind of easy doing this job because I have people like you. So every day, you know, I look at what you guys are doing in your community, and that inspires me, inspires our staff. So I just want to say thank you to everyone. Thank you, Councilmember Wyatt, for looking at an 18-year-old intern and seeing the potential in me. And then also, my parents are not here, but if I don't say that, thank you to my parents. But thank you guys so much, and congratulations to all the amazing women who are getting honored. And there's so many other women that are doing great things. So thank you. And with that, Mr. Ferraletto. So today I'm going to be recognizing a woman who lives in the Delaware District. She called me a few hours ago, and she said she won't be able to make it today. She's a little under the weather, but she's watching this live on Facebook, and we're going to get her into chambers maybe in a couple weeks or in a month. So we will talk about her then, but I still wanted to say, make sure that I talked about her achievements in her career while she's watching us right now. So we are recognizing Doris Jones. Doris is a true pioneer and trailblazer, and she embarked on a groundbreaking career as a full-time model at LL Burger. captivating audiences with a grace, charm, and charisma, before making her mark in the male-dominated world of television broadcasting, where she shadowed stereotypes and blazed a trail of success and innovation. She started a show in 1959 on Channel 7 called For the Ladies, which was a groundbreaking program that she did interviews, musical performances, showcased the talents of women throughout Western New York. She also became Buffalo's first female full-time staff announcer at WGRZ in 1965, and she also reported the weather there. She has so many different accomplishments. She was inducted to the Buffalo Broadcasters Hall of Fame in 1999. Her award was presented to her by Irv Weinstein, And then just one quick story I did want to share, which I thought was very, very cool. When she had her show in 1959, Jackie Robinson was in Buffalo, and she wound up interviewing Jackie Robinson which was that itself is absolutely incredible. And I think two or three weeks after that, her husband at the time happened to be in New York City. He was riding the subway in New York City, and the person next to him was reading the New York Post. And he glanced over and was reading, started reading the paper that the guy was holding. And Jackie Robinson had a column in the New York Post, and in that column that day, meeting Doris Jones. He was particularly impressed by her and she displayed as much charm, personality, and profession as anyone he had ever met and And he assured her she's quite happy in Buffalo, but he wouldn't be surprised if she was knocking on other doors in her future. Which I thought that was absolutely incredible that you have Jackie Robinson saying that about her back in 1959. So Doris, I have this for you. I know you're watching this on Facebook Live, and I will present this to you in a few weeks. Thank you. Next, I'd like to welcome to the podium Fillmore District Council Member Mitch Nowakowski. Hello everyone, I wanted to recognize Courtney because it was really important for me to recognize women who advocate on the behalf of those that are living with disabilities. Courtney serves as the program lead at the Center of Self Advocacy where I met her. She has demonstrated an exemplary dedication and leadership to empowering individuals living with disabilities and chronic conditions. Courtney is a survivor of a chronic illness and has shown determination, resilience, and strength in facing adversity. Courtney's advocacy, which was something that we really worked on together two years ago, was recognized by Channel 7, which featured her in coverage highlighting the need for an ADA coordinator in the city of Buffalo, amplifying her voice and advocating for greater accessibility and equity for those living with disabilities. I know I'm going to take this moment because I know that we also need to submit an ordinance amendment to be able to change the advisory council that has not been impaneled of folks that are living with disabilities. And I know that Courtney is going to stay on me, in which we will stand others to make sure that that ordinance amendment is submitted to the common council and that advisory board is seated so that people that are living with disabilities in the city of Buffalo are recognized and advise city government on their needs. I'd like to recognize Courtney for her contributions and give her the microphone for a little bit. Thank you everyone. First, I want to say thank you to Councilmember Nowakowski. I did not expect this and when I was told I was very much shocked because I've only been working at CSA for two years. I feel very young to my advocacy but as my coworkers reminded me, I've been advocating for myself my entire life and it's just that I'm... young to being a professional advocate, but I'm not new to advocacy whatsoever. It's Women's History Month and I want to take the time to thank women that I work with. That would be Sophia Roberts, Ann Haber who's not here, but I will send her a video. Hannah Brecker and Maddie Zorka, I work with them on a regular basis, and they've taught me a lot about how to be a professional advocate. And Maddie has been dragging me into the 21st century technology, kicking and screaming. And as someone with a chronic illness, I've spent a lot of time teaching. interacting with professionals, medical professionals. I've met so many women who have been nurses, doctors, you name it, and willing to talk with me. And that's so important as someone with a disability, is giving us patience and answering our questions and explaining how the system works, because it's confusing. And when you've got chronic illnesses, it's multiple layers of that. I was born with a condition called congenital diaphragmatic hernia. And with that comes other comorbidities. And last, I want to give credit to my mom, Gail Woodbridge-Durrow. She's not with us anymore. But the work that I do at CSA, the fact that something like Center for Self Advocacy exists, she would have been thrilled about because it's something that we talked about often. She looked forward to retirement and getting more involved in advocacy. She was a huge believer of peer support, self-advocacy, and a term called dignity of risk, which is being allowed to... to do regular things that the average person does, but oftentimes people with disabilities are sheltered from that something as much as taking the bus or learning to drive, really everyday things. And she taught me how there is systems. Everything has a system. And it's just teamwork. You know, your medical staff, your doctors, it's all a team. And your healthcare is teamwork. to tie in the work from CSA, my mom taught me about writing everything in a journal for medical stuff. My parents are big fans of journals. And my mom used to write everything down. And when she talked to a parent that was new to all of this, she would buy them a journal and a pen. Be like, here, you need this. And when I turned 21, She handed me boxes of files that I had to then take care of myself and memorize. And I turned it into a binder and come to find out it's a thing that already existed. It's called patient binders. And when CSA did our second annual healthcare summit this past year in April, I think it was in April, but when we did it, I did a workshop on patient binders. And my boss and I ran into someone who attended that workshop later on in the year and they It helped her with the individual that she worked with and she had passed on that template to other people. So that was really important for me for like we're all just helping each other. And yeah, like just women helping women, people helping people. Just thank you for this. Thank you, Courtney. Now I'd like to welcome the Lovejoy District Council Member and President Pro Temp, Brian Bowman. Thank you, Council President. Good afternoon, everyone. It's my honor to recognize an inspirational leader on this Women's History Month. Tiffany Lewis, our founder of Confident Girl Mentoring is with us today. And Tiffany has been a catalyst for growth and development in the Lovejoy District and across the city of Buffalo. She has fulfilled the great need within our district, mentoring and through her programming at the George Arthur Center and in our Schiller Park neighborhood. Tiffany Lewis is a profound visionary leader and tireless advocate who has been recognized and honored through numerous accolades including a congressional record for exemplary work in youth development, underscoring her invaluable contributions to the well being and success of future generations. Through Confident Girl Mentoring, Tiffany Lewis has created a nurturing and inclusive environment where young women receive healing support and impactful mentorship, empowering them to become leaders, champions, and change agents within their communities, thus fostering a brighter and more promising future for all. Let it be proclaimed, the City of Buffalo Common Council on behalf of its citizens that we hereby honor and commend Tiffany Lewis for her outstanding leadership, unwavering dedication, and transformative impact on the lives of young women in the Lovejoy community and beyond during this Women's History Month. Everybody give it up for Tiffany Lewis. My goodness, thank you everyone. So I just want to try something. So for the guys, if you're confident, say yeah. Okay, it's Women's History Month, so for the ladies, if you're confident, say, oh yeah! I am so honored to stand here today. This is a full circle moment for me because I used to work in City Hall and Mastin District. And writing for legislation now, then, and actually carrying out that legislation now, is just such a surreal moment for me. Confident Girl Mentoring actually happened in 2015 at my kitchen table, just reflecting on the testimonies of our young women who didn't have a voice. It's so important to have a voice. It's so important to have programs that are out here that is making a share and true impact on the lives of our young black and brown girls, whether it's a confident girl mentoring organization or any other organization. I just want to say thank you, and I want to dedicate this award back to the ladies of Confident Girl Mentoring and those who do not have a voice, those who feel like they don't have a safe space. Confident Girl Mentoring is that voice. Confident Girl Mentoring is that safe space. So thank you so much. Next, I'd like to welcome Councilwoman Zanetta Everhart. Thank you, Council President. Good afternoon, everyone. You know, it's really nice to have a packed room. You all should come back and see us some Tuesday. I like having all these people in here. So can we please give a round of applause to all the women who have been honored here so far? Oh, my goodness. We out here doing it, ladies. We out here doing it. And I love that energy for us. Picking someone to honor for Women's History Month in the City of Buffalo is hard to do. No, really, because women in the City of Buffalo, they really hold it down, you know, and there's so many movers and shakers throughout our community. But when me and my team were thinking about who are we gonna pick, for me, I knew it had to be education related because education is very, very important to me. But I also wanted to pick a someone who was young, right, who was bringing real young creative energy into the Buffalo community. And so, you know, a couple years ago, all of you know, my son Zaire was shot and injured in the 514 massacre. And following that, we decided to start Zanetta and Zaire's Book Club because we wanted to give kids books that teach them about diversity and acceptance. And so through our travels and creating this book club, we came across Black Boys Read Too, an amazing organization that partners with barbershops. And they give out books in barbershops, and they set up bookshelves in barbershops. I was like, oh my God. Like, that is like a novel idea. So I would like to call up Rekia Angelicia from Black Boys Read Too. Thank you. Rekia Simmons, the esteemed co-founder and executive director of Black Boys Read Too stands as a beacon of inspiration and empowerment, pioneering transformative initiatives to address literacy disparities among Buffalo's youth and ensure equitable access to diverse and culturally relevant literature that reflects the lived experiences of the community. Through her visionary leadership and tireless advocacy, Rekia Simmons has spearheaded innovative solutions to promote literacy and foster a love for reading among children, strategically placing bookshelves in barbershops, community spaces, and children's clinic waiting rooms, breaking the cycle of literacy and empowering young minds to explore new worlds and expand their horizons. As the curriculum and instructional supervisor for the Say Yes Little Scholars program, Rekia has demonstrated exceptional dedication and expertise in nurturing inclusive environments, collaborating with educators to develop innovative teaching strategies, and providing resources and professional development opportunities to support the community's educators and shape the future leaders of tomorrow. Jalesia Jimenez. She is also the esteemed co-founder and development director of the Buffalo-based nonprofit Black Boys Read Too. They stand as a beacon of inspiration and empowerment, spearheading transformative initiatives to promote literacy and foster love for reading among boys in local barbershops and community hubs, igniting a passion for learning and discovery in the hearts of countless young readers. As a community schools navigator, also for Say Yes to Education in Buffalo, Jalicia continues to champion inclusive and intentional community events that bring together residents from all walks of life, fostering collaboration, connection, and a shared sense of purpose within the Buffalo community. Let it be proclaimed that the City of Buffalo Common Council, on behalf of all of its citizens, that we hereby honor and commend Jalesia and Rekia for their extraordinary contributions, visionary leadership, and unwavering dedication to promoting literacy, educational equity, and empowerment during Women's History Month and beyond. We commend their tireless advocacy and compassion and commitment to building a brighter, more inclusive future for all. Thank you, ladies. The podium is yours. Good afternoon, everyone. Please forgive me, because I didn't know we were speaking. So I wrote a little something in my phone. So bear with me. Jalisi and I are deeply honored and humbled to be recognized during Women's History Month by this esteemed body. We extend our heartfelt gratitude to each and every one of you for this recognition. We want to express our sincerest thanks to Councilwoman Zanetta Everhart for her thoughtful decision to honor us. Your recognition means the world to us and we are truly grateful for your support. While Black Boys Read II was not started for the recognition, the money, or the fame, being seen and appreciated is indeed a heartwarming gesture. It reaffirms our commitment to breaking the cycle of illiteracy and helps us and inspires us to continue to make a difference in our communities, one diverse book at a time. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Thank you so much, Zanetta, for having us. And it really truly is an honor to be recognized amongst some incredible women here in Buffalo. You guys are so inspiring and we hope you can join us on our mission to bring books to the boys. Thank you so much. Next we have Niagara District Council Member David Rivera. Thank you, Council President. First of all, let me congratulate both the women who were chosen this year by each of the district council member. It is a privilege once again for me to choose somebody from the Niagara District, who I have known now for approximately 16 years. She works at a non-for-profit, and anybody that works for a non-for-profit knows that you make sacrifices. It's not about money or fame, it's about commitment to service. So when I was asked to nominate a person, like last time, it came to mind so quickly. Last year I nominated somebody that was a not for profit working with seniors. This year I nominate somebody that works with young men and women. I'm going to ask Diane Takins to please come down. Diane is the founder of Peace of the City Ministries located on the city's west side. She represents the essence of compassion, inclusivity, and tireless advocacy for the youth. Her tireless work to empower young men and women would be better if you went down to where, better experience if you actually went down to Peace to the City and see what happens within those four walls. The transformation that happens to young men and women. Her dedication to those, to nurture them, to empower them, to give them hope is something that you can only witness if you go there. So I prepared a proclamation recognizing you for all the work that you do. Diane, since the inception In 1992, Peace of the City Ministries has served as a beacon of love, acceptance, and family for countless children and teens, providing a wide array of innovative and transformative programs, including creative arts, literacy instruction, and teen empowering initiative designed to instill confidence, build skills, and break the cycle of poverty for generations to come. And to whereas Diane Taken steadfast commitment to her community and unwavering advocacy for youth empowerment have left an indelible mark on the lives of countless individuals, inspiring them to believe in themselves, pursue their dreams, and become compassionate leaders and role models in their own right. Thank you so much, Diane. So I'm going to ask the staff that came with me to come down please quickly hurry up. Yep, please come on down and I'm going to ask Asia As of last night, I didn't real I forgot that we needed a bio So Asia who works two jobs? One at peace the city full-time and another one with American Airlines offered on the staff chat. She goes I'll do it and And I can't not let her share what she wrote. So, Sage, do you have your phone? It's filming up there. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I need, and so I'll say a few things. Summer, if you want to bring yours down. So the best, the reason I have some of my staff here, and the other piece that I want to share is that on May 2nd, we're doing Ordinary Resurrections. This is an annual theater piece that we do. And in our piece here, it says, Ordinary Commonplace, Resurrect to Rise Again. So that's who I get to work with are those who resurrect each day. And Tiazza Jonas is one of those. She started at Peace of the City when she was six. And I'm not going to share her age now, but she is our program officer and also is a program specialist. She can jump in any program and run it. This is my daughter Sage. She began going to Peace of the City in utero. Not kidding. And this is Justin, a young man who is soon to be an artist that I believe you'll hear his name. And he brings hope just by being at Peace of the City. Megan McLean-Quatz is our deputy director and for 20 years a theater director, giving children and teens opportunities to experience themselves in other roles. And Asia Hall is our Raids the Age director and workforce director. We have program staff as well, but they have to work other jobs to afford to work at Peace of the City. One of my biggest goals besides giving our young people, our ordinary kids who resurrect each day a stage to share their story is, oh I forgot what I was gonna say. other than doing this, and I can't remember. That's okay. I'm going to let that pass. Is that that is who it's about. It's about who works there. Oh, I know what I was going to say. It's taken me eight years as a woman. I'm 57, so I started it at 49. I did not have enough money to take care of my three daughters and myself by myself. And so I am coming to the end of an eight year plan where my staff is paid some of the best salaries and nonprofit work in the city of Buffalo. And I believe that is critical if we really do respect the work of our nonprofits, is that we pay them fairly. So this is what happens when you give me a mic and I don't prepare. If you'd like more information, let me know. And Asia, I would like you, because you did that at 9.30 at night. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon. Diane Takins, founder and executive director of Peace of the City, began her journey of ministry over 35 years ago. Diane has served our community since 1992 as an advocate for education, juvenile justice, human rights, and accessibility to opportunities for impoverished families. Peace of the City was inspired by Diane's work in Camden, New Jersey. She expanded this model by joining like-minded, determined, influential women to focus on healing communities in need. Diane Takins has led her staff to provide over 700 hours of love to each of the more than 200 youth annually that enter our doors. Diane has created a reference points of safety and beauty within the former school 77 building by providing transformative programming to every youth that enters the building. Quote, if there was a piece of the city in every neighborhood, I would be out of a job. Dr. Rebecca Schaefer, a children's psychologist from the Erie County Medical Center. Thank you, Diane, for all that you do. Why don't you get the proclamation? Okay. Proclamation. You cannot proclaim without a staff. Okay. There we go. Thank you. Thank you. Here you go. Thank you so much. Thank you. You're welcome. Next we have North District Council Member Joseph Glumbeck. Thank you Mr. President and welcome down, Calissa Sosoka please from the historical Black Rock neighborhood. I believe she moved in around 2007 with the teacher program through the city of Buffalo. She's a Buffalo music teacher and I think I met her soon after that at one of the numerous block clubs, community cleanups, etc. And of course, with typical Buffalo fashion, we had connections. East Aurora with Kimberly, even Chicago, strangely enough. And hit it off very, very well. And what I think is one of the most important things for all of us council members here is that all of you that are in this room are such beautiful volunteers that make the diversity of the city of Buffalo So wonderful, whether it's being involved in gardens, whether it's being involved in cleanups, whether it's being involved in not for profits. You know, it's all of those things that make the mosaic of the city of Buffalo the beauty that it is. And it's the people here. And I have to say that, you know, I was enjoying it earlier with Viva San Giuseppe and St. Patrick's Day and the diversity and all that we have here. here in the city of Buffalo. And Kalissa represents that in many, many regards with her music background, with her community activist background. And it's been a real pleasure for me to get to know her. And I think actually where we got to know each other even better was as Unity Island was leaving my district and going into the Niagara District, I was involved there because I had been involved there for quite some time. And I called her up and got her to show up at some meetings when there were some issues going on there. And we were very, very successful. And I think that's really where we sort of started to really, really hit it off and get more active with one another. But without further ado, I want to welcome her here and give her an opportunity to speak as the woman of the North District. Thank you, Joe. This is quite a great honor. I appreciate being here in this beautiful chamber with all of you beautiful and amazing people. We have an incredibly diverse city of loving neighbors and caring people. I didn't know that I was going to speak today either. I think a lot of the awardees are aware of that too. You're a music teacher, you can sing. The first time that I came in this council a long time ago, I used to work for a program called Muse, which is Musicians United for Superior Education. We used to bring artists to schools and we were looking for funding from the city council. and I came in and I sang a song and we got a grant. So I just figured it was because I sang this song. But I really don't have a song prepared today. I would rather just put the focus on what we're doing in Black Rock. Our neighborhood block club is called Believe in Black Rock. We have been advocating to just get people to come out and meet each other and have relationships with our neighbors. to have friendships down the street, and out of those things organically grow a motivation to collaborate. We've done some things for children and we've We tried to put together a 4th of July bike parade on our new cycle track, but when we get over there, we realize that it's covered with glass and litter. When we were at Unity Island... I just noticed that, you know, who's going to pick this up? Who's going to pick up all this litter? You go around the city, you're like, who's going to do it? And I was on Unity Island, and if you've been there, you know it's so beautiful. If you haven't been there, please visit. It's a little hard to find, but Google it and you'll find it. The sky opened up and I heard the voice from God and it said you will do this you are going to pick it up I was okay, so and then as soon as I began to reach down and pick up trash I met Dozens of other people who are out there doing the same thing I think people are beginning to see that it's not what the city is gonna do for us But what we're gonna do for the city, okay? and so This award for me, I really see it more about motivating. I've been able to motivate other people in the Black Rock area to start doing cleanups we've adopted. Tonawanda Street, Amherst Street, and just go out there and roll up our sleeves and do it, and Unity Island and Niagara Street. And all of a sudden there's more people out there taking care of it and other people saying, boy, we wish we had this in our neighborhood. And it really just takes a few dedicated people to get out there. So then, thank you. And the next phase is to get more awareness about, not littering because we could clean it up after people. So there's, we're going to be doing a pilot program in Black Rock about public education and awareness, some accountability, to try to get people to internalize that change. And instead of dropping that Tim Hortons cup out, I work at School 99 also on Jefferson and Best. I've been there for 20 years. And just this morning we were bringing the kids out on the buses and right there to Martin Cup, right there. The bus is just passing by it. And we really want to see people in Buffalo start to take a change of habits. And if it's in your lawn, you know, I didn't put it there. Well. Pick it up anyway, you know? And if everyone does a little bit, it'll make a big difference. So whatever your cause is, if it's books for children or, you know, advocating for young women or litter, gardens, as Joe was saying, if everyone just does a little bit, it'll add up and we hope we can encourage other people to join in. And I think that's what this beautiful award for Women's History Month is here to encourage us. Everybody pitch in. Next up we have University District Council Member Rasheed Wyatt. Again, can we give all the incredible women a hand? I have distinct pleasure to honor someone that deserves honor, just like all the other women. Sometimes when you have staff, you can't honor them because it's like you don't want to honor your staff because they're your staff. But anybody that knows me, people that go to our breakfasts know I always honor my staff because that's how we get it done. It's not me, it's them. So I want to bring down both of my staff. I want to bring down Doris Corley, who we're acknowledging, and also Sandra Munson. And honestly, I can go on and on, although we're honoring Doris, I was fortunate to have Doris on my team because of the previous, my predecessor, Bonnie Russell. And Bonnie hired Doris, well first she hired Sandra, then she hired Doris. And I've really been so fortunate to have two incredible women who are simply go-getters, very insightful, and they are my boss, for real. And Doris, and I'm going to talk about, before let me just speak about Sandra. Sandra nominated Doris, and that speaks volumes that she thought of her colleague, about her and not her own spotlight, so I acknowledge that because again, that's a selflessness that not everybody knows and understands, so I thank her for that. Secondly, Doris is just somebody that most people know. She worked for Catholic Charities for many years and a lot of her expertise has come because of that relationship and she's so good at it. Someone called us yesterday and asked a question and I'm like, well you had, you called the right person. Because she's so knowledgeable and she cares so much deeply about people. And that's not something you can teach, but it also comes from a woman. Men care, I'm not going to say men don't care, but it's always, it's a special thing about women that they have this compassion. So I thank her and I'm just going to read a little bit about her because I can go on and on. Ms. Doris Corley, senior legislative staff, university district council member, stands as a beacon of community activism and advocacy, demonstrating a deep commitment to the university district and its residents for three decades. Ms. Doris Corley's steadfast dedication to her community is evidenced by her active involvement in numerous neighborhood initiatives and organizations, including her instrumental role in organizing her block club and co-founding the University District Block Club Coalition, which convenes monthly to address community issues and foster collaboration. Ms. Doris Corley's compassion for gardening not only beautifies surroundings, but also reflects her nurturing spirit and love of her community, enriching the lives around Her with vibrant flowers and fresh vegetables and you can see in her garden when it gets warm, you'll see she's back there. But she's also a community organizer, a block club leader for Bigford, Edith and Alice in the Kinsington Bailey community. Ms. Doris Corley exemplifies resilience, determination and an unwavering belief in the potential of every individual to create positive change. That says a lot. And so I want to give you and celebrate on this Women's History Month, Doris Corley. I want to just thank our Chief of Staff, Ms. Sandra Munson. When I came over here in 2013, I didn't really know Sandra that well. I just heard her on the phone when I called the office. But since meeting Sandra, I mean, you're talking about women empowerment. It is phenomenal. And it really kind of helped me to grow to recognize government more from internally. And I just want to thank everybody, all the women. I mean, if you really look at it, we're all sisters, okay? We have so much in common, and I think we need to share that a lot more, okay? Thank you. All right. So I just want to thank Councilmember Wyatt for being the people's leader. It is something that we all need to keep in mind. All of y'all are leaders of the people, and that's something so vital that sometimes we might forget. And that's one thing as being an organizer, you organize people, you organize relationships, and you build and you grow from that. And they will never, ever forget you. Thank you. Okay, well last and certainly not least, can I have Bonnie Kane Lockwood please join me on the floor. If I, welcome back to the floor. If I search my memory for a time when I wasn't aware of who Bonnie was or didn't know Bonnie I have to go back to a time when I was probably a lot shorter than even this podium and And more so than just knowing who Bonnie is or knowing of her for several decades, I've known what you're about. And that is coming from a family that's rooted in civic engagement, you've dedicated your life to this community and improving this community and the lives of the people in it. And to put it plain and simply, you've made a difference. You've made a difference and you've inspired people through your dedication, your commitment to this community and you've inspired people of the next generation to get involved as well. True indication of your commitment to this community, the number of people in your family are here today, the number of past and current coworkers that are here today. And it's incredible the amount of time and effort you've given to this community, whether it was as a legislative assistant in the South District Council Office, as the first woman elected as the South District Councilwoman, as the Director of Special Projects for Congressman Brian Higgins. Or currently as the Western New York Regional Director for Governor Kathy Hochul. Your work speaks volumes and- Your work speaks volumes. I have a proclamation here for you, but before I give that to you, I want to welcome another one of your colleagues to the floor to say a few words. Governor Kathy Hochul's Director of Community Relations, Mos Abumdum. Good afternoon. Thank you so much for having me. My name is Mo Sumbundu. I serve as the Governor's Director of Community Relations. Now, I get to work with Bonnie every day. I have to say, Iris, I hear you. But first I want to thank Council President Scanlon for honoring Bonnie. This is truly a very special moment to honor Bonnie for the incredible work that she does. So a year ago, I did not know Bonnie. Fast forward to a year later. I am a part of Bonnie's grandkids bedtime routine. Last night, so every night I call Bonnie, we just check in with each other on issues throughout the day. Last night when I called, she had Irish sing the national anthem to show me, oh, Mackenzie, to show me that she actually knows the words. You know, Bonnie's husband, John Lox is here. John, where are you? A couple of weeks ago, Bonnie said to me, wonder what people see, Lox. They always say, oh, we feel sorry for you. We're praying for you because you have to deal with Bonnie all the time. Bonnie said, they should feel sorry for me. I have to deal with him. But, you know, one of the things that I've learned over the last year of working with Bonnie, she knows or is related to everyone in South Buffalo. A couple of weeks ago, we went to the Buffalo Bills Community Benefit Agreement first public meeting. We got lost. I don't think it was my fault, but we got lost on the way. Somehow we ended up on the sidewalk, and as soon as we did that, a security guard immediately came over to us. So I was ready with my story to tell the security guard that, well, we got lost and we were trying to figure things out. Before I could even say a word, the security guard said to me, excuse me one second. He went around to the passenger side, Bonnie was there, and his first words were, Hi cousin. I mean, I was just lost for words. So everywhere we go, it's either she's telling new friends old stories or old stories to new friends. But we appreciate you for the work that you do. And I'm going to ask my colleagues Quinn, Jennifer, and Karen to join me. When the governor found out that the council was honoring Bonnie today, she asked me to present a citation to her on all our behalves. Whereas New York State welcomes the opportunity to recognize individuals who through their high standards of excellence in their public service have served their fellow residents with distinction. It is therefore appropriate that we acknowledge Bonnie Keene Lockwood as she is honored during Women's History Month and where Bonnie served as legislative assistant to then council member Brian Higgins. Following Representative Higgins' election to Congress in 2005, Bonnie rejoined his staff as Director of Special Projects. Bonnie proved pivotal in his initiatives to secure a major settlement from the New York Power Authority, which now funds the Buffalo Waterfront, also known as Canal Side. In 2021, Bonnie entered retirement and she thought it was over. Last year, the governor said we need to get Bonnie back. So Bonnie rejoined us as a regional director in Western New York. In this role, we as staff, we get to work with her. One thing I have to say about Bonnie is she wants to take on every issue. At times, we have to be the voice of reason to tell Bonnie we can't take on every issue. So therefore, Governor Kathy Hochul and our entire team here today joined the Buffalo Common Council to bestow appreciation upon her for her many achievements as well as her dedication to the success of Governor Hochul's administration which has gathered the respect and admiration of all those who have worked alongside her. So Bonnie, congratulations. I love this room. I love this room. I stood here 30 years ago as a council member in 1994. Sat right over there. Served with the great women of Rose Latempio, Beverly Gray, Barbara Kavanaugh, throwing some men along the way, including Mastin District Council member then, Byron Brown. Changed my life. Changed my life. Because before there was all this technology, There was this room, and there was our relationship between one another. How we got to know the rest of the city was through the eyes and the stories and the hard work of our fellow members. I didn't last long as a council member, four years. But I never regretted it or looked back because I had started out as a staff person, right? And so I really appreciate the recognition, Council Member Wyatt, of your staff and all the staff that's here today because that is, they are, eyes and ears first. First call, back then, people just used to use the phone. When I started working for Brian Higgins in 1988, there was a little incident in the office, so I didn't know what to do, so I just looked in the directory, and it said security, so I called the extension, and the gentleman said, Lou, the tour guide, I didn't know we had a tour guide. It was a different world. The words inscribed in those pillars, the solar system above us, and the chairs that you now occupy represent security. 42 square miles of the city of Buffalo and the beautiful people that live within its borders and in our community each and every day. To have then left City Hall to work for then Congressman Brian Higgins was also the honor of my life. To then retire to become the Bon Bon Day Care with my family was also an honor and only for this woman, for this governor. When the call came about an opportunity to serve in her administration when it went to Albany, 57 governors, one woman, one picture in the gallery of governors, and that's ours. And she's ours. A steel-less spine, a heart, and a brain that's connected to do the hard work each and every day on behalf of the state of New York, understanding full well as a former local official herself that it all starts with constituent services and it all starts right here in the community. She never forgot that, I never forgot that. My family here today, before there was 311, there was John Lockwood 311. Brian Higgins was researching the waterfront and Barb Lewis and I were trying to get pigeon poop off somebody's roof in South Buffalo or pick up Christmas trees or tires that were left because we had to use our own initiative, learn to work together. It's come a long way since then, and yet still we have to depend on one another. I'm reminded today of the great women, the trailblazers in my life, the Sisters of Mercy, the women that I served with, Velma Ferguson from Buffalo General, my Higgins family, Evelyn Williams is here today, I see Carol Burns, Chris Fahey, my Hoco family, my family here today, if you can all just stand, or don't want to stand. My son Brian and Iris and Megan. Today is Megan, my grandchildren Mackenzie and Declan. Today is my daughter's 41st birthday and today is my niece's first day working for Councilmember Chris Scanlon, Lily Kane. Did I say Councilman? Council President? That's why I didn't last more than four years. But that's it. That's how we exchange. That's how we learn from one another. I just wanted to say the greatest... Lesson that I learned, my friends here today represented by Moe Oakley, a well remembered member of the Buffalo Police Department. My friends, my brother Jim Circus here today, my brother Pat, Donna and his wife Isabella. How proud my mother would be, my mother said to me one time, honey the places you could have gone if only you were more disciplined. So I think of her today. It took a while, but here I am. I'm also proud of our cousin, Father Paul Seil, Chaplain of the Buffalo Fire Department, who's here with us as well and does such an extraordinary job. How lucky we are to have Councilmember Scanlon, Council President Scanlon and his team as well, carrying on the traditions on behalf of the whole city, represented so well. Our first staff lesson, our great lesson, our great teacher for Barbara Lewis and I was Kathy Gould, who worked for Rose Letempio and a great friend. I just want to conclude, thank you for your patience. I may not be invited back, and certainly the recognition from the governor, the first picture I saw of her and I together in this new role a year ago, I thought I looked very confident. I looked like she just fired me. So I'm glad to have this citation no matter what happens. It has been a journey that still continues unexpectedly. My mother was a civic leader, a legal secretary. She was an extraordinary woman ahead of her time who worked Loved her faith, loved her family, loved her community. She passed away in 2005. I think of her today for all the women here in this room, for all the women that have served before, and all that will come. And there will be others that are here now and will come after. My mother wrote this letter to me. Keep doing what you think is right, and realize that not everyone will agree with you. Put a smile on your face, even in the darkest of days. You found mom with a smile throughout her whole life. Smiles make everyone feel good, yourself and the one to whom the smile is given. God bless you, keep your head high and your mind ever working and your spirit with God. He will help you every step of the way. I am proof positive of that statement. I love you today and always. I love the city of Buffalo. I love the life I've been given. Love my family, my husband of 45 years. It has been an unexpected and truly interesting journey and more is yet to come. Thank you so much. Thank you Governor Hulko, thank you Council President, thank you everybody. You want to get a picture here? Look at Momo getting in the picture with everybody. Come on. Yeah, come on. Well, we better get- You got to get the . I'm sorry. The other honorees as well. It was well done. I'll take all of my- No, I'm sure Councilwoman Everhart convinced you all to stay, right? Thank you. On a motion by Ms. Leah Halton-Pope, seconded by Mr. Golombek, the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 5th, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review any of the late files. Clerk, please, from the top. Item number one, mayoral resolution calling for increase in AIM funding. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number two, amended pilot agreement for Perry Homes LLC. Motion to approve items two through six. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number seven, notification serial. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Ferraletto. Item number eight, amendment change order to the Dorothy J. Collier Center. Motion to approve items eight through and including 24. Seconded by President Pro Tempollman. Item number 25, notice of appointment. Motion to send items 25 through 30 to civil service. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. 26 is actually an approval, so we'll- Yeah, sorry. Motion to send item number 25 to civil service. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 26, permission to accept 2023 motor vehicle death and insurance fraud grant. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 27, appoint detective. Motion to send items 27 through 30 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 31, request approval for New York State Health Care Workers Bonus Program. Motion to approve items 31 and 32. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 33, food store license 525 Broadway. Motion to deny. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 34, Commissioner's Report for Proactive Rental Inspections. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Council member 35, our beneficiary agreement, Hispanic Heritage Council. Motion to approve items 35 through 39. Seconded by council member Ferraletto and council member White has the floor. Thank you Mr. President. I just wanted to acknowledge, I'm glad to see that MVP has gotten their funding. I know that they have been calling and asking me, so he finally got it. But I do know and I hope that we can get a list of the others who have not got their funding because they all are in desperate need. And I know this council has been pushing for quite some time to make certain that all the recipients who put their paperwork in, went through the process, are getting their money. I mean, they're doing great work. There's great work to be done. And I'm just glad that this one has gone through, but hopefully we can get a list of what's still outstanding. Thank you. Item number 40, Appoint Assistant Print and Mail Room Supervisor. Motion to send items 40 and 41 to civil service. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number 42, DPW, obtain and tow vehicle. Motion to approve items 42 through 44. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 45, cannabis license notice. Motion to receive and file items 45 and 46. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number 47, Appointing our Legislative Assistant to. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Miscellaneous. Item number 48, Kizzerton Expressway Project Concerns. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 49, Bicycle Pedestrian Advisory Board in the Year 2023 Report. Motion to send items 49 through and including 54 to community development. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 55, college programs for high school students and FAFSA assistance overview. Motion to send that education. Seconded by Councilmember Ferraletto. Item number 56, 2023-2024, food store license renewal. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 57, support for House Stowe Buffalo Niagara. Motion to receive and file, but this, one moment please. Motion to open briefly. Motion is open for discussion and Council Member Glumbeck has the floor. Thank you Mr. President. This is a similar item like we had a month or so in front of us in regards to the environmental impact study. We've been getting tons, at least I know, I've gotten hundreds if not a thousand emails from people asking questions about the hostel in downtown Buffalo. And I do not believe that the city of Buffalo has been anything but transparent in regards to this. I was on the bureau meeting several years ago when I remember the bureau board explaining what needed to be done at the hostel. And it seems like where the, from my opinion, that where the lack of communication has come has been from some of the members of the hostel board. Going back to the hostel and sharing with the actual board what was necessary and what was not necessary. I don't think there's any. nonsense that is going on at this point. I think that the bureau board and the city has been pretty much above board. And so this is why as chair of community development committee and as a member of the bureau board, I had several questions that I wanted to ask of the bureau board and we have a representative here. I just simply want to ask these questions. I want to get answers to them and then we can receive and file them. Because I would rather see the same answers come out two, three, four times than somebody miss them ultimately. So number one, we do have a, yeah, we do have someone here. And the first question was, my understanding is that the hostile building must be vacated. As per the engineering, and if that is still the case, what is roughly the date that we need to have it being vacated? So, yes, it's still the case. This is Hope Young-Lockins, Upland Urban Renewal Agency. So, Councilmember, yes, the recommendation of the A&E professional was that during the time of construction we would need this building to be vacated for the safety of all. And we are working on a timeline right now as to when the actual notice to proceed for construction will begin. We do have our drawings prepared, so we are moving steadily forward. ahead to be ready. There was an initial conversation at a November 30th board meeting that required a March 1st vacate date for the tenant. We were asked for consideration of some extended time and we proceeded through written documentation to allow a March 25th vacate. This time I have no additional request so that is the date of vacate for the tenants. Okay. Does the hostel still have a right of first refusal? This is one of the questions back now, you know, to us and to me in particular. Yes, no changes have been made to the item that was stated at the board, the bureau board on November And in there it stated that the hostel tenant will have the first right of refusal for 60 days post the completion of this project. Okay, and last in these three questions, are we negotiating, is Bureau negotiating with any other developers in regards to the hostel at this moment? No, there is no negotiations regarding the hostel. We are steadily working towards a stabilization project with our special project manager. And the only thing we have currently in place is that of the statement of the board where it gave the hostel the right of first refusal. Okay, thank you. That's been my understanding for the past several years, and it's something that I've tried to reiterate when I get members of the hostel or those who are supporters of the hostel in downtown Buffalo. And once again, you know, I think that you guys have been utterly and completely transparent with everything you've asked, answered these questions. At bureau meetings, you've answered them I believe by email. You've answered them whenever I've called them. I just wanted to have it verified once again at the council meeting. I would make a motion at this point that we receive and file this item after having it been put on the record. And thank you for coming down. Thank you, Council Member Nowakowski. thank you mr president with reapportionment i do have the hostel in my district and i was a voting member of bureau last year and i'd like to just state for the record since i've stated it multiple times before but since this item is open is that as the district council member i am very supportive of the hostel and council member golumbac who's a voting member of bureau last year with me was also one of the voices in the room that was supportive of the hostel when others were not and allocating funds to secure the rear structure and the The fact of the matter is Ms. Young-Watkins has done a very good job in actually being in the hostels corner and being in my corner. There was a few months where she said, I can give you A, I can give you B. I said, well I really want you to advocate for A, and that is to be able to secure the rear structure of the hostel and to make sure that the hostel is safe and that it's going to be something that stays around for quite some time. So now is the time for the hostel to get their financing in order so that they can return to the hostel. The fact of the matter is, just to cut right through it, is I understand that it's very It's not the hostel does not want to vacate during construction the fact of the matter is is that it's the safe thing to do and safety of people comes first and then liability to this city comes second and although that that's not comfortable or some folks may not like that answer doesn't mean that you can answer shop around to get one that you'd like and prefer when we're talking about safety so i thank councilmember golombak for answering these questions and look forward to being a supporter of the hostel moving forward motion close discussion Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council President Portent Bowman. Item number 58, secret negative declaration. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Petitions item number 59, special use 40 Manchester Place. Motion to send items 59 through and including 64 to legislation and city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Submission list civil service item number one, appointment to Buffalo area county library board. Motion to approve items number one. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number two, appointment of City Historian. Motion to receive and file items two through seven. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number eight, appointment to Assistant Corporation Council Three. A motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number nine, notice of appointment, Labor Two. Motion to receive and file items nine, ten, and eleven. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Finance, item number 12, cash flow report for January 2024. We are going to receive and file items two, or 12, 13, and 14. Items 13 and 14 is an item that I have and then an item that Council Member Wyatt has. We were able to take those two items and have a resolution that we will speak on in the submissions list. Thank you. Motion is to receive and file items 12, 13, and 14, seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Community Development, item number 15, report is so 1475 Amherst Street. Motion to approve with conditions. Motion to approve with conditions, please. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Legislation, item number 16, restaurant dance license 3167 Bailey Avenue. Can we revisit item 15 or do we want to do that at the end of the meeting? Yeah, we'll come back to it. Okay. Item 16, motion is to table. Motion is to recommit the ledge. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 17, special use 85 Abbott. Motion to deny. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 18, resolution. Council Member Wyatt. Motion to roll call vote for 18, 19, 20, and 21. Okay, we'll take those one at a time. Item number 18, resolution in support of New York Senate Bill 8575, and this is the motion to continue to receive and file the item. President Pro Tem Bowman? No. Councilwoman Everhart? No. Councilmember Ferraletto? No. Councilmember Golombek? No. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk? No. Councilmember Nowakowski? No. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Council President Scanlon? A point of clarification, maybe Corporation Council can answer. We are voting to receive and file, so a no vote would be the opposite of that, correct? Just for clarification. Yeah, that would be the. So can we recall that, Mr. President? So the procedure then, so we would, I think we go back and recall the vote then. Yeah. If you can start over. President Fulton-Bowman? Yes. Point of order, how do we do that? We just go back and do it, we have to undo what we just did if that's the case. Yeah, we can if you want, we can. It's not a voted on, I didn't complete the roll call, so it wouldn't be nothing too recent at that time if it's correct. I haven't completed the roll call at that time. And we've come back in the past and had people change votes. Council Member Rivera. Mr. Chair, just a point of clarification so that way you can clarify it so we understand, then we can go back. It's just a point of clarification. Yeah, so the motion was to receive and file. Council Member Wyatt would like a roll call vote on that. So if you're voting no, you're voting against the receiving file. If you want it to be received and filed, you would be voting yes. Got it. President Pro Tem Bowman? Yes. Councilwoman Everhart? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumbac? Yes. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? No. Council President Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? No. The vote stands to receive five. The vote stands with seven votes. Item number 19, resolution in support of NY Senate Bill 8585. Before you call roll call vote, I would ask Corporation Council, can we vote on these as a group in a roll call vote? I think technically you're supposed to only do them one time. Individually, I thought so. Okay. President Pro Tem Volman? Yes. Councilwoman Everhart? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumbak? Yes. Majority Leader Hawkins-Polk? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council Member Rivera? No. Council President Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? No. It's received and filed with a 7-2 vote. Item number 20, resolution in support of New York Senate Bill 8591. President Pro Tem Bowman? Yes. Councilwoman Everhart? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? No. Council President Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? No. It's received and filed with a 7-2 vote. Item number 21, resolution in support of New York Senate Bill 8622. President Pro Tem Bowman? Yes. Councilwoman Everhart? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? No. Council President Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? No. The bill is received in file with a 72 vote. Item 22. Item number 22, special use 33. 33 19th Street. Motion to approve items 22 through 27 with conditions on item 24. All seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Rules, item number 28, rules of order for the Common Council of the City of Buffalo. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Resolutions, item number 65, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 66, fee waiver for Italian Heritage Parade. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 67, establish uniform guidelines for trailblazing sign applications. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. And Council Member Wyatt has the floor. I'm in the negative. Record Council Member Wyatt in the negative. Item number 68, beware of the e-prayer at 701 Broadway. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council President Pro Tempollman. Item number 69, reestablishing a minority women owned business enterprise. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Golanbek. Item number 70, resolution to support strategic vacancy control measures and data requests. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera and Council Member Nowakowski, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. So this is a very important resolution that I'm grateful that it's going to be adopted and the remainder will be sent to ledge. We were told a few months ago when the Buffalo Fiscal Stability Authority Board met a few months ago, had spoken about vacancy control and the need for the city of Buffalo to show restraint in upcoming structural deficits that the city of Buffalo could potentially see. We've been talking, there's been members of this council that have been talking about the finances since we've gotten on this common council and joined members like Niagara District Council member and the University District Council member when we talked about. Life after a reserve fund and life after pandemic funds. And so our finances in urban economics and in municipal budgets are complex. And I believe that especially in an agenda that we just approved to ask our delegation and the governor for more aim funding that we also show that we're taking proactive measures of restraint. Now I want to clear up one thing about the resolution is, especially when talking to the President Pro Temp, is we understand the positions of emergency response, DPW workers, those that are revenue generating and front facing workers of City of Buffalo, workers that keep us safe. So we understand that that's not impending or talking about any of those positions, but I think we're talking about some of those high paying, positions or positions that don't feel a critical need right now in the city of buffalo so i think that it's important that the common council comes out in front of this and adopts and adopts a resolution that spells that out and taking and heeding advice from not only members of the stability authority, but the council, and we had a really hearty conversation. I think about three different meetings we heard from the comptroller's office, we heard from the stability authority, and we heard from fellow council members, and I thank the body for adopting this measure. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. And I agree with my colleague and appreciate the collaboration on this. But I'm trying to understand the rationale. We are asking for the state to give us additional money but we're turning away options for additional dollars through what we just received and filed that Sean Ryan proposed. And although I know that at this point there was no approvals, but certainly whatever resources that we can get, especially as it relates to the minority community to Eastside, I would think that we would want to do that. And I know that some people have said, well, if it's not for the whole city, they're not going to do it. But I know that many in these chambers have said, what about the east side? And so I will continue to be a proponent and advocate for those things that can improve the east side. Because as I've said to people, if you go to the east side that I lived in 15 years ago, it still looks bad. 15 years later and that should not be when we have other areas that have been developed we have areas like Larkinville that was created but the east side still looks like a shambles and some people may want to act like they don't have glasses on or maybe they need some glass to see but again whatever resources we can get I would think that we would all be in support of that especially in the financial situation that we're in so Again, we will continue to push, fight this battle, working to get whatever dollars we can because we know at the end of this year there's going to be a reckoning. And there was things that we should have been doing all along that we didn't do. And we have no one to blame but ourselves. And so again, you know, we talk about things and although we put it on paper, I don't want to just look at it on paper. I want to see what the action is that we're going to do to make certain that we can put the residents of the city of Buffalo in a positive framework. Even though we're having these challenges, there's still some opportunities to do the right thing. President Paul Tapp. Thank you, Mr. President, and I'm glad we could get to a point where the language in the resolution was something I was comfortable with adopting and as council member and our finance chair Nowakowski mentioned the you know the departments and the emergency work and the ability to hire that was my only concern with previous resolutions was you know making sure that we aren't handcuffing departments to any degree. And we heard from the administration who said they already are implementing some measures, but the point is we are have fiscal Issues ahead and I think myself and others on this council are ready to You know hit this head-on. So I just want to be very careful with you know, the language that we're using within resolutions And so it's important and I'm glad we were able to get to a point where we were able to adopt this Thank you councilmember Rivera. Thank you very much. I just want to thank the sponsors councilmember Nowakowski and And Rashid Wyatt and I asked to be included in this as well. We've had conversations now for years about the city's financial conditions and the projections going into the future. We've heard from the control board, we've heard from the controller's office, we've heard from the board of education, we've heard from our own staff, our own analysis. That not much has been done to change the structural problems of our budget. We're no better off today except for the ARP money than we were prior to COVID. And I mean, the winds are showing us that we're going to go up against some financial problems in near future. And we have to right-size government now. We can't wait for next year to come along and then we end up making severe cuts. We should have been doing this gradually over years. And now the only way around this is to increase fees and taxes because we fail to do it gradually over years. The control board came up with a referral to this common council that we looked at a few weeks ago and it was received in file. I'm glad we revisited and this council is now taking the lead. and which we should be doing and we have been doing. And I think to go on the record now and say, hey, we passed this resolution, that the council is not just going to sit here and wait for things to happen, that we're actually um decided to lead in certain areas especially when it comes to our finances so i want to thank the finance committee for over the years this year and previous years for their due diligence and making sure that we draw attention to the city's financial condition and it's up to us to lead i you know we can't wait for the comptroller's office to lead us we can't wait for the administration to lead this council we're a separate body And we should be making decisions, and we should be doing our analysis. So I congratulate Council Member Wyatt for his work and Council Member Nowakowski and certainly those people that served on the Finance Committee for many, many years and have drawn attention to this. And I think that we're going to be revisiting this in the near future. Unfortunately, I don't, you know, the state aid, I support it 100%. We want more AIM dollars for the city of Buffalo. We know that it's going to be difficult. I'm not saying it's impossible. They have to change the formula that affects every municipality within the state. That means they would have to give money to every municipality, and that would be in the billions of dollars. I hope and pray for our sake that we do change the formula to Aim formula and the city doesn't receive money which we've been flat for a number of years So I certainly support the increase in aim I am concerned on the practicality whether or not it will get done this fiscal year but we certainly hope that it does so thank you very much to The sponsors of this resolution and I asked it I'd be included in it. Thank you. I Item number 71, waive fees and grant permissions for flag installation for Pride Month. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 72, Commissioner Beats. Motion to adopt items 72 and 73. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Community Development, item number 15, report is so 1475 Amherst Street. Motion to revisit. Motion to revisit item number 15. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto, who has the floor. Thank you. I just wanted to briefly touch base on item 15 in CD. This item came to the Council six months ago by the Real Estate Department. They recommended and asked that we sell this house for $155,000. At the time, this Council decided not to sell the house at that point because... At that time, the proceeds, it wasn't clear where the proceeds of the sales were going to go. This house was owned by a woman who purchased the house in the 1970s. She passed away in 2011 and in 2019, the city foreclosed on the house and took title to the property. So for the first time at a city foreclosure auction in 2019, the city took the title, The person who intended on purchasing it at the auction didn't have the funds to close So instead of the house going back to the estate which owned it the day before the auction the city Kept title to the property because the city took title the day before the auction so it's our corporation council's opinion that houses and properties that were taken in 2019 the People who owned it at the time are not entitled to the surplus funds because that would be an illegal gift of public funds the city Before that would give surplus funds To they would have to be requested and the people would get the surplus funds when a bank forecloses on a house Whatever amount is owed on the on the note is paid off and the surplus funds go back to the owner so I say that because I said I will not vote to approve this unless it's very clear that the funds are going right to the estate and that to this point that hasn't happened. However, the house has been vacant for over half a decade. It keeps its its. it's not in good shape and it continues to deteriorate. So if we don't move forward with the sale, the value of the house will keep decreasing and that isn't doing any benefit to the estate who owns it. So it was really, I really thought about how to handle this for a long time. And I think the best way to proceed would be to approve the sale with the condition. And the condition would be that, the funds from the purchase are held in escrow for 10 years unless and they would only come out of escrow if they're going to the estate of the owner of record for 2019 I'm confident that some someone whether it's a court or an attorney somehow this money will go back to the estate and when that is Decision is made or when it happens. I think it would happen quickly if the money was held in escrow in a separate separate account So it's not in the city general fund. So there's no Question on how do we get the money? Do we have to allocate it in next budget? I want the money to be right there So that's why we are putting the condition on that It is in the money's held in escrow for ten years. Thank you Motion is now to the motion is to prove with condition that the funds are held in escrow for 10 years or they are only removed from escrow to give the funds to the estate of mabel tips seconded by councilwoman everhart announcement of committee meetings regular committees committee on civil services tuesday march 26 2024 at 9 45 a.m committee on finance following civil services tuesday march 26 2024 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, March 26, 2024 at 1 p.m. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, March 26, 2024 at 2 p.m. Committee on education will be Wednesday, March 27, 2024 at 530 p.m. Council members announcements. President portent council president just quick announcement the office of strategic planning is doing an envision neighborhoods planning for the lovejoy neighborhood at school 43 it's 161 Benzinger and that will be this Thursday March 21st from 530 to 7 p.m. So we encourage the residents in the lovejoy neighborhood to come to school 43 give your input on There's a lot of good things happening, and we want your input, so the improvements reflect the community as a whole. Thank you. Majority Leader. Yes, we have an allocated stakeholders meeting this Saturday at 10.30 a.m. at the Crane Library in the Elmwood Village. Thank you. No one else? Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Rivera.