Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Stand for pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, the Republic, and the United States of America, one and only, and to the glory and glory of our Father, the our count oh not our chaplain uh we have a visiting uh chaplain today who's also part of the head of the zoning board of appeals and a pastor in in our city the reverend of james lewis the third and one who emcees everything yes mr president doctor we thank you for this opportunity to be here with all of you especially as we celebrate women's history month So all the beautiful women, give them a big round of applause. Let us pray. Lord God, we desperately need your wisdom. You've given us a great city founded on principles of truth from your word. We need men and women who will honor you and trust you and lead us once again back to you. We pray for the servant leaders who love these things that you love and care about others more than themselves. Lord God, we pray that you give us leaders with discerning hearts. Bold faith and wise minds that model your character. Teach them and us not just what is good, but what is best. Help our leaders to be quick to admit failure. Be ready to rebound in persistent resilience. Encourage them to choose wisely when they don't know what to do. Help them to keep their eyes on you. Let them take the firm stand on issues that truly matter to you, regardless of the consequences or approval ratings. Make them God-pleasers, not puppets, leaders filled with conviction, not corruption. We ask for your blessings on heroes like Firefighter Arno, the casualties of the blizzard, and those that were lost in the massacre, and those that are losing their lives daily to drug addictions. As a nation, God has helped us to desire righteousness more than rights, and to mirror sacrifice more than selfishness. You know us well, and you understand our flaws. Turn those weaknesses into strengths. Bathe us with your grace and mercy. Though none of us deserve it, fill us with the boldness to choose the kind of freedom that will benefit all rather than a few. We ask this in the mighty match's name of our creator and sustainer of all things. In his name we pray and the people of God together say amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Lewis. Council members Morris, Council member Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President. Sarah Indelicato, 24-year-old woman, former student of mine at Buffalo State College who had been fighting off illness for the past several years, succumbed in the past couple of weeks. One of my favorite students at the school, just a very, very nice young woman. My heart goes out to her family, her friends, her extended family and friends. Jerome Franco, formerly of Riverside, I grew up with his children. He passed away over this past week as well. Anthony Paradiso of the Riverside neighborhood. He passed away leaving behind his wife Lisa as well as other family members. And last but certainly not least, Bill Christie. Some of you might have met Bill. He was very active in the 21st Ward Independence Day Association. That was the group that ran the 4th of July celebration in Riverside Park since the mid 1950s. And his parents were involved in it, so we would joke that he was literally there from the very first one. And he was, I think they had a picture of him as a little boy directing traffic at the park. So he was literally there for almost the entire time that the Fourth of July celebration went on. But he is going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his extended family in the Riverside area. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. This person that I'm going to place in memoriam is meant a lot to people in Western New York, especially those that are living with a disability. Her name is Judy Heumann. She was actually a nationally known person and well known as the mother of the disability rights movement. And she even has roots at the university Buffalo students group the independence who she worked to achieve federal funding for them as a student group and I also am joined by my constituent BJ Stasio who would also like to reiterate the point who really wanted to place her in memoriam it means a lot to him in the disability community so I'm gonna give the floor to him Thank you, Councilman Nowakowski, for having this conversation with me and honoring the mother of the disability rights movement. First, let me say, before I go any further, I challenge everyone in council chambers to watch the documentary, Crypt Camp, which talks about how... how that group got the Disability Rights Movement started. It's available on YouTube and also on Netflix to watch. It's a good thing to know where we all came from, where we are going, and where we hope to go together as a community. And that was one of Judy's driving forces to make all communities around the world inclusive for all people with disabilities and she was the one who led the sit-in to pass 504 in San Francisco in 1972. The longest sit-in in U.S. history. 26 days to get the Rehabilitation Act passed which... which brings up the issues of access without 504 we wouldn't have the access we do now we still have a lot to do and together we as one community we will do it so let's carry on judy's legacy please thank you thank you any others I'm hearing those, and thank you so much for being a guest in the chambers or in your chambers. We remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries since our last meeting around this globe. We pause in these chambers for all the names that are mentioned for a moment of silence. Thank you. today being a very special day to honor uh women of our city each council member was asked to submit a name and each council member has although they could have all submitted probably about 30 names because of the incredible women we have in the City of Buffalo. Because we have nine presentations, I'm going to ask each council member to come forward with your person, and then we'll take a group picture with all of them, if you'd like. And if you could just, you know, we've got nine of us, so I want to make sure. And if we could start with the Delaware District. So are we coming up here or doing it from the floor? Sure, sure. They parked and come down, so... You know, right. Got to do it right. So today we're recognizing Dr. Catherine Collins, who is a neighbor, lives in the neighborhood. Her son was on the same track team as my brother, and her son was faster than my brother, but I don't care about that. My brother does. Anyway, she's dedicated her life to education, community outreach, made significant contributions in education, nursing, in criminal justice. She's the founding director. person and the funder of the Women's Health Radio program, which is a weekly program that provides health-related information to women in the Western New York community. She's also a active member of the New York State Board of Regents since 2016, and it's my honor to recognize her as the distinguished woman in the Delaware District this year. Dr. Collins. This is yours. If you'd like to say a couple words. I'll hold this for you if you want to say a couple words. Thank you, my councilman from my district. I appreciate him so much because every time I pick up the phone and there's something wrong in my district, he responds. Yes. and he makes it right. He actually walks the districts and see what's wrong. If anything's wrong, then he takes care of it. That's a true councilman and a councilman that takes care of the people who vote for him and who also works hard for all of the citizens in Buffalo. And I thank you for this honor. And I've worked hard in this city. I continue to be blessed because that's the only reason why I'm still here is because I'm blessed every day I wake up. And so for all of the ladies who are being honored here for the work that they've done, congratulations and keep up the good work. And to all of our councilmen too, you work very hard. And Norm Bacchus, is that Norm Bacchus? Okay, I thought that was Norm Bacchus. Okay, he worked very hard and I remember him always when I used to work in this city. in this in City Hall. So again, congratulations to all of the honorees today. And thank you, Councilman. And I can't sit down without saying something about President Bridget. Oh, thank you. A good friend and a friend of this city. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, Dr. Collins. Go to the Mastin District. Do we have Mastin? The... The person who I would like to recognize today is on Zoom, so if we could pull her up on Zoom, that'd be wonderful. Annette Colden. There she is. Today we would like to recognize Annette Colden. We are appreciative of the vision to actually appreciate various women in our community in Women's History Month, and we decided in Mastin District to recognize Annette Colden. However, when we nominated Annette Colden, little did we know a week later, Annette would suffer from an illness and would not be able to be present here today. We were asked if we would like to recognize someone else who could be present. Our answer was a resounding no. We are going to honor Annette Colden. And we're going to do that because she is a survivor. She is a warrior. She is a child of God and she is an unashamed Christian. She always lifts people up. When folks in the community tried to speak negatively, and when folks are meeting her with cynicism, she always turns it around and uses that big heart that God gave her to breathe life into other folks and to ensure that they can see the goodness and the light in their situation. Annette Colden works at Roswell, and she worked at the gift shop, but that was not just her only job. Annette Colen would also go to the rooms when people were informed that they had cancer and would sit with them as a survivor of cancer herself to make sure that people understood that this is real, but if I can make it so can you. So this month I We would like to recognize Annette Colden as the distinguished citizen and the woman in the Mastin District who is a stalwart, who is a pillar in our community, who is unparalleled in her heart as she gives to anyone who needs it. So Annette Colden, this honor is for you and I'm hoping that folks pull you back up on the screen. I've been fighting tears this entire time. I think I did good today for not shedding a tear, but just know that if I had shed a tear, it'd be a tear of joy, tear of happiness, and of course, naturally, if she was here, she'd have a lot to say. So I'm hoping that the Zoom comes back up so that we can hear Annette speak, if that'd be her pleasure. But if not, you all seen Annette. And Annette is a beautiful individual, a wonderful woman, and a mother to our community. So, Annette, this honor is for you this month. And I hope I've done you justice in trying to give people a little piece of what kind of peace you give us in the Masson District. Thank you all. Go to the South District. You know what? so now we've got a problem just too many people to honor I've only got one time are we gonna do the nine and then come back we can bring everybody down This Women's History Month, the South District Common Council Office staff and I would like to recognize Kathy Cunningham for her selfless, her tireless, and unending commitment to her community and to her city. Kathy is not only an incredible business owner, but one of the most civic-minded residents you'll ever come across. I cannot tell you how many times I've seen Kathy taking part in a community event, more often than not actually spearheading the event. I cannot tell you how many times that regardless of the situation, if she's approached by something, her response is simply, what can I do to help? And I cannot tell you the debt of gratitude that our community owes Kathy. But unfortunately, we'll never be able to adequately express that because regardless of what Kathy's doing, no matter what she's doing, she does it in the background. She doesn't like to seek out the light. She does not seek out limelight or credit, and so I don't think anyone will truly ever understand all that she is involved in. It has been a true pleasure of mine to work with Kathy during my time in office, but more importantly to me, it's incredible to me that I get to call you a friend now. And despite all that time you spend committed to our community and, again, staying out of the limelight, we do know that you go out. and garner some attention with you and your dance troupe, the swinging seniors, when you're bringing a wonderful time to people throughout the city of Buffalo. So again, Kathy, I thank you for everything you do for our community. I thank you on behalf of the residents in South Buffalo, and I just can't thank you enough for your friendship and commitment to the city of Buffalo. Thank you. I'm not worthy. All right. And we go to the North District. This wasn't an easy decision. I sat in the office and I spoke to Sandy and Evelyn and Mark and said, boy, there's so many women of distinction that are in the North District. I said, how do you really narrow it down? And we said, well, it's got to be somebody that lives in the North District, okay? It's got to be somebody that's done a lot in the North District. Well, it whittled it down a little bit, but It still put me in a little bit of a bind because I had people like Talia Rodriguez, Faustian Palmeiro, LaCandice Durham, Tracy Van Patten, Suike, Mary Ann Kedron, Margaret Chepaniak, Sue Chelloa, among others that live in the district that have been movers and shakers for quite some time. Some for a short period of time but have done momentous things, some for very, very long periods of time. And then I said, you know what, Elaine Panti, my old friend from the Riverside Library. I met Elaine. I told her, I was reminding her today, she thought I was a page. And I said, no, I wasn't a page at the library, but I was the nerdy little kid that would walk to the library every Saturday. And I would pick up a book. And that was back when the library was in the little corner store type building on the other side of the street. And then when there was a threat that the library was going to be shut down, that we were going to lose it, I got involved with the friends of the library, I think I was about 16 years old, 17 years old, and know knew her and a bunch of other people and really it was because of elaine in my opinion that the library ended up being saved in riverside and that we did not end up losing it she's been a long time member of the uh library board um Her family used to own Panty's Flower Shop where I would get all my flowers from just across the street and down a block or so from the library. So without further ado, congratulations to my friend, Elaine Panty. And it was a welcome back for her because she said when she came in here, she used to work for North District Council Member 1975, 76, and 77. Yay. Reville, Jack Reville. And so she was very, very familiar with the building. Yes. Well, this is really an honor. And I'd like to thank all of you, President Fridgen. We met before a long time ago. And all of you gentlemen, too, for recognizing the fact that women, our rumors and shakers we do things and um i a lot i along with all the other ladies have been mentioned are to be mentioned well i'll admit we've never done anything alone it's always been a collaborative effort with everybody that means everybody I am very fortunate. I have two families. I have my own family, which unfortunately couldn't be here. They're out of town. I have my library family, and they're here. I have them here. I have my vice chair of the board, Karima. I have Dorinda. I have Linda, and I have Joy. And I've known these ladies for a long time. I've been on the library board for over 30 years, and it's a pleasure to work with everybody and to do things for the community and to make sure that... The library is open for everybody. Can I say it? The Panty Library is open, too, because Riverside was renamed in my name, and I thought that was wonderful, too. I'd like to thank you all, and I hope that if this is the first of the times you're doing this, that it's a longtime tradition that you started here. Again, thank you so much for letting me say this and for giving me this honor. I really appreciate it. I can't thank you enough. Thank you so much. Thank you. So this month, the Fillmore District wanted to honor someone who has lived in the Fillmore District her entire life and from a neighborhood that we would call Larkinville now. She grew up on Lord Street. How fitting that she chose a profession surrounded by the Lord. So she's spunky. She's funny. She's witty. She's a leader and from the early 70s when she was chasing drug dealers off of her street, she recently made national headlines for kicking out the ladder from a few thieves that were trying to rob her building. And I grew up with a lot of Polish ladies that are tough like her, so that's why we connect. And so when you first and instantly meet her, you become her family. So she'll give you honest advice like a family member. She'll love you like a family member. And she'll put you to clean like a family member. So she is someone who embodies... A lot of characteristics that women out there in the world should strive to live to be. And a lot of times we have to face the fact that women throughout history have had to fight against gender norms and misogyny and sexism in the workplace. And especially, I could say this now, you know, even in the Catholic Church where, you know, sometimes men are the leaders. We have a sister who chose to step up in leadership and be the executive director of the Response to Love Center. And I'm honored to present this to you today, and I know that you will have many more decades of work and leadership in the district. Thank you for being here. This is an honor, not just for me, but for my staff and for all the people we serve on the east side of Buffalo. I'm the antique of the East Side, born and raised there. Lord Street, followed him, born on beggar's night. What better place could I be than the East Side of Buffalo? When Mitch became council member, he became the official God Squad member at Response to Love Center. And he's very, very special to all of us. Mitch is there whenever there's a need. You pick up the phone, and if he doesn't answer, he will answer after I make the second call. But he's a dynamic force, and we work together as a team. His staff is just dynamic. This is an honor because the East Side Buffalo is many times forgotten, but Mitch has brought it to light, and he's brought so much energy to the East Side, and he's given us hope. So I want to thank you for this honor, Mitch and Darius. very special to me we've received some rewards awards together and we want to build the community we want buffalo to be the best the best city and because of all of you all of you councilman you are making it the best and with god on our side we will always have hope so i thank you i am so proud to present this award this acknowledgement to this lady. Growing up as a little boy, I can't... Hm? Growing up as a little boy, I don't remember a lot of women entrepreneurs. A lot of men. You know, Hopson's the Dr. Dry Cleaning, Scott's Steakhouse, Lee's Barbecue. Not very many women. So I'm proud to acknowledge Annette Watts, who is a female entrepreneur, and she's been a constant presence in our community. Over 30 years, she's been in business, and she's very much a businesswoman. If you talk to her, she will talk to you about business, about how she runs her business, how she's been successful. I don't say, I've not as a young man met a lot of women like that so I honor her because she's a constant presence in the University District. Her business is very successful. I believe the Bishop uses Enron's too as far as tailoring and she's very well known for her her skill set so i want to acknowledge and thank her but what she does in our community and for the example that she provides for little girls uh... that they too can be business owners and she's been successful she gives back to the community if she's not the parade and here i am she does does quality work and we think her and acknowledge policy done so congratulations on being the extinct distinguished university district woman of the month I don't know if you're going to say that. Uh-huh. But you want to say a few words? I will. Thank you for honoring me. You also, everyone that patronized me over the years. If it wasn't for the community, I would not still be there because they have been showing me the love. And I enjoy working with my community and hope to be there another 30 years if possible. But thank everyone for this. Thank you. And for my family. Thank you. And I definitely need you to be there because whenever I gain a few pounds, she adjusts all of my clothes very quickly. And it's Ann Rods. So if anybody, I want to make sure we give the plug. Ann Rods on Bailey. So thank you. We're going now to the Niagara District. It's my honor today to honor Danette Porto. She is the mother of Debbie Lombardo. Phil Portal, and Judith Fiorella. She has been an active member of the West Side for over 50 years. I think people from throughout the region know Danette Portal for her involvement. That goes way beyond the West Side. In the early 70s, her and her husband were one of the pillars who began the Italian Festival, the Miss Italian. Eventually they moved. But Danette remained on the West Side working for seniors at West Side Community Services, where she retired a while back and decided to come back and continue to serve at West Side Community Service. And I see Crystal here from West Side Community Services. Her heart is with seniors program and youth program. Whenever I went into the center, she would say, my seniors. do something for my seniors. That's how she would phrase it. And whenever there was a need, how can we do it for our seniors? So having three children... five grandchildren, six great-grandchildren, she was able to do this. And I think she passed this legacy on to her children because we see some very active women in her family. So I want to, on behalf of the Common Council, honor you here today for your service, your tireless service to the community, in your community as well, as well as the West Side. With that, I present you this proclamation. Thank you so much. David, you've always been a good friend to me, and I'm so honored that you gave me this award today. But you know what? My heart and soul has always been in the Niagara District. And even though I moved to North Buffalo, and I love North Buffalo, I will always be a West Sider. I want to thank my children, my grandchildren, my great-grandchildren. Crystal and Mary from the Westside Community Services. When they asked me to come back out of retirement, I thought, oh, what am I doing? But you know what? It's for the seniors, my family, Westside. Thank you so much. I'm honored. A little ankle injury, so we'll give her a little time coming up here. Take your time. Don't hurt yourself. That's right. We won't. won't work here too hard good afternoon everyone I have the honor and the privilege of presenting our Reverend dr. Cortesia Solomon Carter today as our pick for the Lovejoy district You know like a lot of my colleagues it wasn't easy to Pick just one but the one thing that stuck out to me about cortesia. She never asked for anything back in return, right? She's always the first one to volunteer the first one to be here this Saturday at 8 a.m. For groceries for seniors what we're going to be doing this weekend. She's going to be there with us working for us I met her 15 years ago through her block club, the Floss Freund Rogers Weber Block Club. She is a community leader, a voice. She's currently representing us on the board of block clubs. She's a representative for the police advisory committee on the council. She's just everywhere. She has her hands in everything. She's a leader. She's been a representative for her community, and it is my honor to pick her as our Lovejoy representative. I'll hold that for you, Scott. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. This is a great privilege and honor. It's all about the people, and it's all about the community, and I'm going to continue to do what I can. Every day of my life, that's what I strive to do. Keep it in the community. Let's build Buffalo. Great. Congratulations. Good job. Got it. Thank you. Good job. So for Ellicott District, we are honoring Nikki Hickman, Nikki has a business on Jefferson Avenue plant base. And during COVID, she did her best to stay open and feed people. Really, I left it up to the ladies in the office to make the choice. And you were the choice. I was introduced to plant based through her restaurant. I went in there and I was going to just buy a little bit because I was thinking I'm not going to really like this. And so I bought three sliders and took them home and I said I'll give one to each of my boys and I ate all three. They never, and I'm not kidding you, I was eating and I was like, forget the kids. But she's just done a great job in educating our community and does a great and brisk business. So I give you a shameless plug. But I do want to thank you during so much and during the pandemic. pandemic that you remained open as much as you could and you fed people healthy and you're in our community when you could have probably located anywhere in western york could have been over in north but i'm so glad you're not over in columbia's district but i'm glad you chose to stay and be right on jefferson avenue so thank you and this is from the eloquent district and all of the council All right, amazing afternoon, everybody. So I am the proud owner of Sunshine Veganese. So March 7th literally made my three years. I literally opened during COVID. And it has been an amazing three years. It's been crazy, but it's been amazing. I'm honored for this to, you know, even have this award because, you know, I don't know if this is your first year doing this. But women, we make things happen. So I've been making it happen for three years, and even going into this, people say, why did I choose Jefferson Ave? And I always say, why not? My community needs me the most. So this is where I'm at, and this is where I'm staying. So I appreciate you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. We have all the women come down. Oh, Scanlon has another one? Oh, I've got another one. Let me get off the block. Sure. I apologize. I was going to do that. Okay, Rhonda, I guess now we'll have you come down. Well, Rhonda is joining us. I don't believe I need to introduce Rhonda Frederick to anyone on this body, but for anyone who might be watching at home, it's extremely appropriate that while we're recognizing Women's History Month, we are also recognizing Rhonda Frederick, who is a wonderful woman who has absolutely made history here in Buffalo and beyond. For the past 42 years, Rhonda has worked on behalf of those who navigate life despite disabled conditions. beginning in 1980 with People, Inc. Rhonda began as a direct support, in a direct support role, then moved on to become a senior social worker, program administrator, director of program development, chief operating officer, and eventually the president and CEO. This is not hyperbole when I say this, Rhonda has literally had a hand in everything that People, Inc. does. And because of that, they're able to do so much more than they did when she got there. Their increased capacity to serve the population that they do, the increased number of employees that they have, all a direct result of things that Rhonda has been doing. Rhonda is retiring from People, Inc. on April 7th. 43 years to the day she began with the company. Now, in our community, and we all see it, there are certain things people do that are very tangible. You know, they do X, it results in Y. And there's no shortage of that in Rhonda's case. But in addition to that, her efforts with People, Inc. really are not quantifiable. The number of lives that have been improved because of your work, And that number will continue to increase because of the foundation that you laid in that increased capacity that I talked about. So, Rhonda, I want to congratulate you on an incredible career with People, Inc. I wish you nothing but the best in your future endeavors. And I thank you on behalf of everyone in Buffalo and beyond. And there's a proclamation here from all nine council members. This is so incredibly humbling, you know, to hear the stories of all these incredible women today and know that I am among them. I'm incredibly proud of what People, Inc. has done and I look around here and think I've worked with every single person in this room. I'm thrilled to have one of People, Inc. board members, BJ Stasio, is here. I've It's been the pleasure of my lifetime. It's been an incredible honor to serve the people that we support. I know, thank you for saying I've laid a good foundation. I know the agency will continue to support everyone in the city of Buffalo and the western New York region. Thank you so, so very much for this. I am just so humbled. Thank you. Stand down. Stand down. Now, I know all of our guests would love to stay. I know. All righty. Yeah, we still got to conduct a little business here. All righty. Well, we'll begin. Are we going from the top, Majority Leader? Majority Leader? Are we going from the top? And I know, I can't believe everybody wanted to stay. Only Harold stayed. So that's all. The first one to stay for our meeting. Thank you. All right, from the top. Item number one, mayor out-of-town travel. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbert. Item number two, annual action plan amendment. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item number three, correction to 22-1713, permission to enter into contract. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number four. Pilot program first Shiloh to house a development fund company motion to send the CD segment calls remember for your letter Adam number five planning board seeker nag deck 172 Goodell motion to send the legislation by councilmember Bowman item number six report itself 141 briscoe. I'll defer to Lovejoy councilmember Yes, we can approve motion to approve so you can approve Six and seven and seven as well. Yes, I second by councilmember Bowman item number eight report is so 23 Olga motion to approve second by councilmember Nowakowski item number nine report is so 209 Rodney motion to send the CD second by councilmember Wingo item number 10 report is sale 35 Strauss motion to approve items 10 through 12 second by councilmember white item number 13 certificate of necessity motion to receive and file second by councilmember Colombo item number 14 inter fund loan requests motion to send finance items 14 and 15 my customer for a little and a number 16 notification stereo motion to receive and file saying my councilmember scam and number 17 reported bids for a dork DJ Collier motion to approve item 17 through 28 second my counselor window and number 29 status change for motor equipment mechanic motion to send the civil service items 29 through 30 35 second by councilmember bowman and number 36 permission to accept 2022 ship grant motion to approve so my councilmember corporation council item number 37 Daniel Aliyah 40,000 motion the same sent to claims committee items 37 through 51 second my council refer letter at a number 52 a point-of-count clerk typist motion to send the civil service my councilmember no Kowski item number 53 lodging house license for 340 am what motion to approve items 53 through 58 second by council member Item number 59, new tire handler 1409 South Park. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Freelander. Item number 60, G-Techno contract extension. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Freelander. Item number 61, a plan administrative assistant transfer. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member White. Item number 62, B-Well extension. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Item number 63, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 63 and 64. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 65, cold mingling event permit for 69 West Chippewa. Motion to send to legislation items 65 through 70. second by councilman for your letter at a number 71 leave of absence request motion to receive and file so my counselor in Bowman I don't number 72 appoint public safety dispatcher motion to send the civil service item 72 and 73 second by councilman fellow I don't number 74 appoint senior legislative assistant motion to adopt item 74 and 75 saying my customer no counsel miscellaneous item number 76 bicycle and pedestrian advisory board motion to send the cd item 76 and 77 second by president pro temp scandal item number 78 common council letter of support for 211 western new york motion to receive and file item 78 and 79 second my president pro temp scandal item number 80 2023 2024 food store license renewals motion sent to legislation second A to number 81, designated route restrictions. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. A to number 82, Shays Board of Trustees regarding 2322, call for Shays-Buffalo to address. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Noacostia. Item number 83, special use 397 Jefferson for neighborhood shop. Motion is sent to legislation and city planning board items 83 through 87. Second by council member Frioletto. Submission list, civil service. Item number one, appoint member of Buffalo Water Board. motion is to adopt item number one second by majority leader review I don't ever to appoint Commissioner human resources motion is to approve items two through and including six second by majority leader review item number seven notice of appointment street worker motion to receive and file my cause remember Winkle item number eight Pam senior resilience grants manager Item number nine, notice of appointment street worker. Motion is to receive items nine through and including 14. Second by Council Member Bowman. Finance. Item number 15, MMA contract extension. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Glumbach. Legislation. Item number 16, full store license, 440 aka 442 Amherst Street. Motion to receive and file item 16 and 17. Second by council member white item number 18 ordinance amendment chapter 194 food stores motion to approve items 1819 and 20 by customer involvement item number 21 zoning map amendment 1625 Fillmore This item is sent without rack the Madison District Council member wants to make the motion first for 1625 Fillmore Avenue Recommit motion is to recommit second by councilman Wingo. I Item number 22, local landmark 680 Amherst Street. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member White. I'm sorry, I need to rescind that motion and make a motion to receive and file that. Second by Council Member Golombek. Do a motion. Second by Council Member Golombek. Who has the floor? What are we supposed to do? When we're done, I'd like to go back to the first item in this committee. Okay, thank you. Next item. Resolutions. Item number 88, trailblazing sign to honor Antoinette Raffer. Motion to approve items 88 through 90. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 91, Commissioner Deeds. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 92, fee waiver for South Buffalo Farmer's Market. Motion to approve items 92 through 95. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. So last item, you wanted to go back to what number? Item number 16 from legislation, please. All right. Did we do 95? Did we do 95? Did I miss it? 95. The motion was to approve. Oh, I wanted to speak on that one. 95. Thank you, Mr. President. And I just wanted to say I had a conversation with our finance commissioner regarding this outlay of money. We understand we need it. snow stone moving equipment as well as on fire vehicles but we also need are a r p money and i had a theory strong conversation with them because as I go through my district and I'm talking to people and meeting them, they're asking me, where is this money? It was designated that this money was out here, that it was going to happen. And in our districts, we're having to answer questions that we don't really have control over. We have to get this money out to the community or they feel like it's just a, a, a, a. We're giving them talking points. But they don't want to see talking points. They don't want to hear talking points. They want to see action. So I'm asking, again, this administration to work with us, help us get this stuff moved. We cannot continue to wait to the last minute for this to be moved out. People have been told, we have been told from last July that we were going to see RFPs, and we haven't seen a single one. So I hear that they're working behind the scenes. Well, we need them to come to live. because people need to know that we are making this happen. The folks in my district in North Buffalo are looking for this multi-use facility that we've been talking about. They've been without a pool for almost five years. I'm not going to continue to take a beating for this when we've allocated money for us to remedy those things, and so we have to get something moving. I know Council Member Bowman has been working very, as well as the majority with the administration. We've been working in earnest. And here I am approving something because I'm giving it in good faith. And in good faith, we need to see something back. So, again, I'm encouraging our commissioner of finance as well as the administration to give us something to work with because the residents have been waiting way too long for something to be coming forth with this transformational dollars, and they haven't seen too much transformed as of yet. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. Councilmember review. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman councilmember Bowman myself Served as liaison to the to the committee that is working on the ARP We have approximately 1.1 million dollars per council district to be allocated for priorities in those districts my understanding there are eight council members that have a designated their money for their projects and they're ready to go. We have one council member who is, they're doing research on his request. So we're hoping to expedite this as quickly as possible because we'd like this bid it out. We like this to Happen during this construction season. So hopefully we'll be able to move this and get it before the Common Council We'll work with the administration office of strategic planning and the councilmember to make sure we move this along as quickly as possible and I thought We inform you as to why there's this delay at the last minute. Hopefully we'll be able to clarify that for fairly quickly and have this come before us. They're calling you now. That's it, the administration's calling you. All right. Council Member Golombek, what was the item? Motion is to reconsider item 16 out of legislation. Seconded by Council Member Friar-Lotto. I'd like to rescind the receive and file motion. Seconded by Council Member Friar-Lotto. And recommit the item. Seconded by Council. This is the item I'm working with the community police officer on. Thank you. No worries. Seconded by the Majority Leader Rivera. Is that it? Oh, announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, March 28th at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, March 28th, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, March 28th, 2023 at 1 p.m. And committee on legislation is Tuesday, March 28th, 2023 at 2 p.m. Special committees, committee on claims will be Wednesday, March 22nd, 2023 at 1 p.m. Any announcements for your districts? Seeing none, hearing none. Motion? Seconded by Council Member Glumman.