roll call councilmember Farrell a little councilmember Fontana present councilmember Franz act here councilmember Golombak councilmember pridgin key councilmember Rivera councilmember scan present councilmember winga present councilmember Wyatt here corn is present let's stand for the pledge as we remain standing our chaplain the Reverend Al Warner As several of you know, Deb and I spent a lot of February on a mission trip to Africa, Liberia, West Africa. And as we shared before, we were going back as the first family member since her great grandfather was there 103 years ago. In 1913, went there during his mission stay, contracted malaria, died and is buried there. No family member had returned for 103 years until we did. So it seemed like a sacred opportunity. Psalm 1 says this, Blessed is the man who doesn't walk in the counsel of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners or sit in the seat of mockers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He's like a tree planted by streams of water which yields its fruit in season, and whose leaf doesn't wither. Whatever he does, prosper. It says yields fruit in its season. Interestingly enough, we were fruit to Daniel Laurie 103 years later. We got invited by the Chaplain General of the nation to come to the Capitol building. We met with the Speaker of the House of Representatives, third top most powerful person in the country. And he said to Deb, he said, were you afraid to come back to a place where your great-grandfather died? She said, I was until I had people pray over me and then I felt confident to come back. But one thing that happened in that building, and I'll share this quickly, was pretty interesting. The place where we believe he's buried is a specific legislative district, and we got to meet with that legislator. We told him the story of Daniel Laurien dying in 1913, and he said, that date's important to my family. We said, why would 1913 be important to your family? It turns out his great-great-grandfather was advocating for the poor, was put in prison in 1910 to 1913, came out in 1913 and was a changed man, started a church that became a church of a million members. So Debbie came back to the room and Googled her great-grandfather and this legislator's great-great-grandfather, and they're mentioned in a book in the same paragraph. It turns out that those two men, 103 years ago, knew each other and impacted one another's lives. Yielding the fruit in season means that sometimes your fruit outlives you. Sometimes your fruit, if it's the right tree, outlives you. And that's for all you young folk that are with us today, too. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your goodness. Thank you for trees that are planted by rich streams of sustenance. Thank you, Lord, for the time we were able to have and the leaders of government in that nation we got to connect with. And now we bring that back here and have new faith for the journey. Thank you, Lord, that our fruit is meant to outlive us. I pray that we plant the kind of fruit that is generations deep, a root system that goes much deeper than we can begin to imagine. Now today, would you bless these deliberations? us to hear your voices and thank you father for the good things you're doing in our city as we stored them as each of these in office towards them I pray that they would know that they're starting them for generations still to come in Christ's name amen amen thank you chaplain memorials council members council member lingo Thank you, Mr. Chair, President Pridgen. Today we lay to rest Mr. Theodore Ted Jackson of the Antioch Baptist Church. He is a long-term resident of the Masson District and also a long-time member of the Antioch Baptist Church. I just want to briefly talk about the kind of man he was. uh... today we we we spoke on matthew chapter twenty four where it talks about uh... when your master comes he should find you working doing so and mister jackson was the kind of person who every thursday he would get up and provide pastries and water to the garbage man and this last thursday this thursday passed he got up got himself dressed him and his wife you know they're up in age And he got himself dressed, went downstairs, prepared pastries and water for the garbage men. And after he delivered their package to them, he turned around when his house sat in his chair and fell asleep. I believe he woke up in heaven. I just think that there's such a beautiful story of a person who does not need all of these accolades, a person who does not need any fanfare. He's getting it today because the Bible does say what you do in secret, he rewards you openly. We are honored and privileged to have had the time to be his pastor for that short moment of time. But if we all could just... act in a way where if we don't know who's looking, who's watching, who knows, continue to do what Mr. Jackson did. And if we had more Mr. Jacksons, how much of a better community, I'm trying to sound like you, if we just had more Mr. Jacksons, I mean, I think we would have a better community. And life is so short. And for him to do this, 25 years out of retirement, 60-something years married, 37 years at the church, He is a consistent, diligent worker. And the title of the sermon was, I hear Brother Damon in the back. I don't know if that was him saying amen, but the title of the eulogy was a faithful worker. If we could all just be faithful to our craft like Mr. Jackson was, we would certainly live out our moniker of faithfulness. the city of good neighbors. And that's all I want to say, Mr. Jackson. I just want to acknowledge his wife, Ms. Rosemary Jackson, who is the sweetest, sweetest lady in the entire world, next to my mother. Other than that, thank you, Mr. Chair, for this time. Thank you. Very appropriate. Council Member Franzen? Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to remember Joe Diamond, who died just now. And he was the nicest man you could ever... And he had one of the toughest histories because he was living in a small village in eastern Czechoslovakia in 1944. Because he was Jewish, he was taken by the Nazis, put on a train with his whole family... He witnessed, he spoke at my Holocaust class a few years ago and he was, the kids were just riveted listening to his personal story. He was a teenager. He witnessed such brutality, a baby being killed on the way to be put on a train deliberately. His whole, he was told by the Nazis at the camp of Auschwitz in southern Poland. My uncle was also a prisoner there because he was a mayor of his village there. He was put in as a political prisoner and Joe Diamond was taken because he was Jewish And he was told that his mother and brother would be separated, but they could meet on the weekends, but they were put right to the gas chamber. Then he was forced to help build the gas chamber. He was about 15 years old. And then when he got so weak and tired of exhaustion and maltreatment, he was going to be put in the gas chamber. The Nazi doctor would go around and see which one to be selected. And he stood up on a brick that he had by a crowd. He looked tall and strong enough, and so he passed them by at the gas chamber. he narrowly survived. So when he came to my class, you never saw a man that was so burdened with these horrors of genocide. And they asked him, do you feel like you need to have revenge? And he said, no, I don't. I defeat hate and revenge by educating all the new generations of young people that this would never happen again. So he was just a very, you know, and a love of life and a very happy guy and I really was a joy to have him in the class and it's those voices are disappearing as their survivors are real people now and I just very good warm thoughts for Phil. Absolutely. Cosimo Golomba? Thank you, Mr. President. Former Riverside resident Jerry Ivancy passed away, was an active member of the old Croatian club and All Saints Parish and now a member of St. Paul's Parish. Donna Hogue will be very, very sorely missed by her husband George and her children. Stallworth family over in the Black Rock neighborhood by Hurdle Avenue. And last but certainly not least, and this is always very, very sad, as you know I was a teacher and still am at Buffalo State College, and every now and then you find out that a former student passed away. And... When it's somebody that's older, you can sort of chuck it up and say, well, they were older. They had a full life. A young woman was in her early 30s. Jennifer Mueller passed away very, very sadly. It was a surprise, sort of like what happened with our friend Frank Garland, went to bed and never woke up. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends as well. And it was nice, I got a little anecdote of one of my former students actually sent me a message and let me know that she had passed away. And he had told me, he goes, I wanted you to know because she always said you were the nicest teacher that she ever had. So, you know, it's always nice when you hear something like that. But I just wish that I would have known that before and could have thanked her. Thank you. Any other comments on that? and of course as we always do we remember our men and women in uniform and civilians who may have given their life since our last meeting together we pause for a moment of silence in these chambers you may be seated yes sir yeah yeah today we have one special presentation today we have one special presentation and I'll call down, first I'll just talk a little bit about what this is about. Developmental Disabilities Alliance Awareness Day is to promote positive system changes to allow persons with developmental disabilities to achieve optimum independence, and to promote innovative programs and practices that improve the quality of life of those individuals. Developmental Disabilities Alliance Awareness Day in Buffalo, New York has been established to promote awareness and understanding of opportunities, challenges, and needs of persons with developmental disabilities. And today we are so pleased to have with us many from the community who I know we've heard, we've got Pastor Wingo here, Pastor Bridgen, Pastor Warner, Pastor Revere, all these, but this is, I want to thank those who minister to people. Those who go to work every day and it's not a job, but they take care of people and as we heard the echoes in this hall today of our constituents it was a welcome echo a welcome sound that they can come into their house the people's house and be respected and welcome and so today believe everybody's with us Kevin is with us Brad is with us and others who are going to come and we want to present right here on the floor come on down and you can introduce everybody and we want to I know it's not an award or reward but we want to recognize you and all of your staff for everything that you do for these wonderful and special citizens that we have so if you will take Okay, thank you. I'll try to introduce everybody. I'm Kevin Horrigan from People Inc. Thank you very much, Mr. Council President. Thank you, members of the Council. This is such a great recognition for us. Sometimes we don't realize the contributions that people with developmental disabilities make. to our society and especially not only them and their family, but our staff that also provide vital services to them. We happen to have about 2,000 staff members that live in the city of Buffalo that work at agencies with the Developmental Disabilities Alliance of Western New York. This is Wendy McKertin. Thank you very much for having us here today. I know in addition to the proclamation for the day, we're recognizing the Be Fair to Direct Care campaign. And what that's really about is raising awareness about the critical need for additional funding in this year's state budget. We have proposals in the Assembly budget and the Senate budget. And at this point, we're really working hard to get the message through to Governor Cuomo to let him know how critical this additional funding is. Our direct support professionals do an amazing job day in, day out, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for people who cannot do things for themselves or who need assistance. And we know that there's a lot of support in this room, and we just want to thank you very much for recognizing us today. My name is Mindy Servoni. I'm the President and CEO of Community Services for the Developmentally Disabled. We employ 1,000 people, most of which are employed in the city of Buffalo and many of which live in the city of Buffalo. So we're very honored to be here today, and we appreciate the recognition. Cindy Thur, parent. John DeCarlo, parent. And I encourage all of our citizens because the reason I encourage them to come down because I think it's so important we have our Comptroller of the City of Buffalo who has worked so closely with the community so thank you for being a Comptroller. and if possible any councilmember who wants to come up come on get a photo out with I don't want to be in this photo alone I think it should be all of us who support this wonderful community any councilmember have anything they want to say very welcome to we're looking straight ahead at okay that's fine come on we this is the best part of the business for today and as he is coming especially for those who may be in wheelchairs we know we have some wheelchairs this council voted money in the budget to put in an elevator to get us get folks in wheelchairs down to the bottom of the floor yes this entire council voted for and it is the item today on today's agenda concerning that also okay all right thank you that will give a second for our guests to be able to sure they don't want to sit through a long council meeting it wasn't and i apologize that item that i talked about is not on this agenda it was before us two weeks ago to hire the consultant right it's already done exactly great all right On a motion by Ms. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 7, 2017 are approved. Council members, you have all the late files before you, a few that just came before you. Are there any objections to the late files that are before you? Hearing no, we will hear the entire agenda. It does not take away your right to object to any of the late files as they come before you. We are ready from the top. Item number one, appointments. Board of Johnny B. Wiley Stadium. Motion to receive and file items one and two. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number three, appointments to Commission on Citizen Rights and Community Relations. Motion to send to ledge. second by councilman for your letter item number four permission to commission New York of our archway in Michigan and Broadway motion to approve second by council member the Lombard item number five negative declaration of 2178 Seneca motion to adopt saying my council member Wyatt item number six special use permit findings for 1335 hurdle motion to receive in file item six through eight take my counselor Fontana Item number nine, Broadway Market Chair Donation. Motion to approve items nine through eleven. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item number twelve, Citizen Services Submission of Monthly Report. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 13, easement of modification for 854, Ellicott. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Friolotto. Item number 14, application for landmark site 794, Potomac. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Friolotto. Item number 15, request to purchase 1140, Jefferson. Motion to approve items 15 to 17. Second by Council Member Wingo. item number 18 report reported sale 307 Chelsea place motion to send the CD when I customer Wingo item number 19 reported so for 361 14th Street motion to approve second by council member friends I am number 20 reporter sell a 382 and 386 grant motion to send the CD second by councilmember Wyatt item number two has the who has the floor Council President, we can't see the items, so we can't click on it to see the item itself. So I don't know, is that a system glitch? Because normally we have access to see the item itself. Clerk's office. It should be generated. Is everybody else having the same problem? Yeah, we're having the same problem. I am as well. Did it download correctly? Yes, it was generated. Still can't see it. Okay. okay so you can't you can't pull out the item is that what you're saying okay are there any items that that you that you know we need to get to be able to continue with the agenda any specific items no not right now but we just know no normally that if we have a question we can look at the item and then bring up the question but we can't even look oh so you're not even seeing the line we see the line but you can't see the item itself that to kind of review it and right so is there a I don't narrative it are there any particular items that I can send council staff to know how actually we probably go forward unless we come up to an item that someone may have a question okay if you want but in advance this do you have an item right now that you need okay because the late files are in front of you in paper right yeah okay well one if they're a lot of late files but this is we only have one late file yeah yeah they're all attached or you or you yeah or you could go on the internet on the internet site and it'll pull it up i'm not sure why it didn't come up thank you for bringing that to our attention just to bring it up yeah so we'll we'll be more cognizant of it and i do not mind pausing if a council member needs a particular item then we go to it okay without any problem okay And Malcolm is working on it right now. Next item. Thank you. Item number 21, report a sale of 494, 496, and 498 7th Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item number 22, transfer of your properties to City Carolina Lakefront. Motion to send to City, item 22 and 23. Second by Council Member Ferreira. Item number 24, animal shelter follow-up audit. Motion to receive and file items 24 through 26. Second by Council Member Fontana. item number 27 inter fund cash loan motion to approve second by president pro-tube Scanlon item number 28 concerns a demolition of 68 sycamore motion to send to ledge items 28 and 29 second by councilmember Franczak who has the floor And just on item 28, Mr. Chairman, that we alluded to in committee, 68 Sycamore, which is in the Ellicott District, but you're just as interested as I am. You have a building that has very great import for the history of the city of Buffalo. It's an antebellum pre-Civil War building before 1861. It's a brick building that is not that huge. That is important with the African American cultural quarter that's being developed because it played an important role in the early development of that community. It's a building that is allowed to engage in demolition by neglect by the owner, which is negligent. I received a letter from... Carl Frisland, who talked about this could be easily renovated. So if this individual just purchased this building in order to see it be demolished for no good purpose whatsoever, I think it's a big mistake. This building, 68 Sycamore, appeared in a very important publication by the Massachusetts Institute for Technology, MIT Press. had a page devoted to this building as one of the city's important buildings that was used as a rooming house on a day-to-day basis. And this is exactly what we should be doing to protect and preserve these kinds of structures, which are very doable projects. especially now seeing a lot of the positive things happening with readaptive reuse. There's state tax credits. There's still federal tax credits. They haven't taken those away yet. Hopefully they won't. So it makes a project like this much more able to be done. Thank you. And I totally agree. This is one of those projects, and obviously the actual item isn't in front of us yet. I believe there's a meeting tomorrow. Thursday about this with preservation. There's some things, and I think this council has shown that we may part ways on when it comes to preservation, and there's others you look at and you go everybody disagrees on it, or agrees on it. And so I think that that's one of those, so I'm very, very prepared to vote once this comes to us, if it does, for this to stay. The lady who bought the, the person who bought the building knew what she was buying. because she came to me about the building and at that time wanted to make it a rooming house. It had already been a rooming house and had a lot of problems. It became a dumping ground for sex offenders and anything everybody else I was very clear and if it was good enough then which was about a year ago it's still good and so she may want to put it up for sale again but demolition shouldn't be an easy option. They were denied I'm told they were denied the demolition program. And they should have been. I agree. Thank you council member. Next item. Item number 30 list the in-run properties. motion to receive and file second by a customer of the Lombok item number 31 position allocation and maintenance form motion to send the civil service second by council member Wyatt item number 32 change in contract with Munchkin land roof replacement motion to approve items 32 through 34 second by councilmember Golan back item number 35 contract time extension for accent strike Motion to receive and file items 35 and 36. Second by Councilmember Colombo. Item number 37, Lovejoy Pool Improvements. Motion to approve items 37 through 48. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 49, appoint parks supervisor. Motion to send to civil service items 49 through 51. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 52, food store license 139 Grant Street. Motion to send to ledge. Seconded by Councilmember Transak. Item number 53, used car dealer 1657 Broadway. I defer to Lovejoy Council. Thank you, David. I appreciate it. Sorry I didn't get to see you sooner. A motion to approve with the condition that they do not use the fencing at the corner as signage and that they do not... locate junk vehicles at the site. No tire storage either. So it's no tire storage, no junk vehicles on the premises, and no signage on the fence at the corner of Bailey and Broadway. Councilmember, this is just, well, second by Councilmember Williams. This is just a question. This license would allow them, if you didn't put that as a condition, would they be allowed to keep junk cars there without a different type of license? Well, it depends. It's a repair shop. But at the corner of, I think it's Bogardus and Bailey right now, I have a car lot there that's been approved as a car lot, but there's 16 junk cars in the lot. There's nothing for sale. So I'd like to have it printed right on the license as an additional requirement. I think we could definitely go there and write them up for junk cars. I think it's okay. But I put it right on the license this way so they see it every day on their license. And when I go to the shop, I'll point to their license and I'll say, it says no junk cars. get rid of them. And it makes it easier for me down the road to stop in, point to a piece of paper, and show them that they're violating their own license right on the form itself. And I ask that only for selfish reasons, because I agree with it and I think I'll add them to my conditions soon. I think it's a good idea, and unfortunately at the corner of Bailey and Broadway, they use that fencing as signage all the time. And I don't want that, I told the new guy I don't want to see that anymore, because it just clutters up the corner pretty good. And they've done a decent job of cleaning the place up. item number 54 a point building inspector motion to send civil service second by customer for your letter item number 55 Buffalo Civic auto ramps expansion motion is an item 55 and 56 to finance so my councilmember friends at item number 57 approval of ESG contract extension motion to approve second by councilmember why Item number 58, nutrition program contract. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 59, proposed agreement back to basics. Motion to send to finance. Okay, if we could just pause because now it's not even advancing. All right. yeah yeah little glitch in the system next item item number 60 items returned by mayor without approval or disapproval motion to receive and file item 60 through 65 second my council member glombert item number 66 notice of appointment motion to send civil service second by customer Wingo item number 67 a point assistant legislative a to motion to adapt and my customer Montana item number 68 letter of map amendment motion to adopt items 68 through 73 second by 74 second by president for Tim Scanlon item number 75 health advisory HIV and AIDS in Erie County motion to send the CD items 75 and 60 saying my councilmember fear letter item number 77 national food requested amendment to you do motion Motion to send to ledge. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 78, parent and board budget request endorsement. Motion to send to the Education Committee. Second by Councilmember Wingo. item number 79 solicitation for lid agency status motion to send to the mayor's executive planning division and corporation council saying my customer affair letter item number 80 refugee resettlement resettlement city motion is sent to ledge my customer item number 81 3 1 311 complaint system concern motion to send the cd because of my wife item number 82 use of 63 military motion sent to the ledge of city planning board items 82 through 87 my council member Farrell item number 88 use of 229 elk motion is sent to legend city planning board saying my council member on tenor item number 89 public stand versus Donald Trump's policy and practices motion to receive and file Second by Councilmember Fontana. Committee, Civil Service, Item 1, Notice of Appointment for Senior Accountant. Motion to approve Items 1 through and including 7. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. item number eight notices of appointments motion to receive and file it's been my council member friends finance committee item number nine contract with new york state department of corrections and community supervision and center of employment of opportunities motion to approve second by council member stanley Community Development. Item number 10, supporting the New York State Climate and Community Protection Act. Motion to adopt. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Item number 11, Snow Plan of 2016-2017. Motion to receive and file items 11 and 12. Sorry, I'm trying to cut you. I think my council member for your letter. Legislation Committee. Item number 13, use of 1456 hurdle. 13 and 14, motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 15, food store license, 1065 Tonawanda. 15 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item number 16 is food truck, I'm sorry, rolling cannoli. Motion to approve. second by councilmember Wyatt item number 17 second hand dealer license 440 Ontario motion to approve with conditions second by councilmember Golombek item number 18 use of 1335 hurdle motion is to approve second by council member your letter item number 19 use of 25 limelight motion receiving file second by majority leader for beer Item number 20, use of 2178 Seneca. Motion is to approve. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. item number 21 used car dealer 1367 bailey motion to approve with conditions second by councilmember fear letter item number 22 used car dealer 2329 bailey motion is to approve second by council member fontana item number 23 landmark in north park branch library 2351 delaware the item originally came without recommendations the motion is now to approve second by councilmember piraletto item number 24 landmark in Pratt Street Industrial Heritage District this item came without recommendation I'll defer to the district councilmember for a motion motion is to deny and court me the name record councilmember friends act because remember the love bag in the neck for the record this matter is currently for the Common Council due to an appeal of this body's denial of the original landmark application of the Fratch Street Industrial Heritage District also known as 412 William Street. We were directed by the court to hold another public hearing on the matter at legislation committee with the preservation board and members of the community as well as the owner of the property and questions spoke about the landmark application. We've heard from both sides on the matter and it is my opinion that we should not landmark the site based on several issues that were brought to light during both public hearings as well as my review of the application and a community meeting from the adjacent community of this building. Although the property was initially slated for demolition, its owner is no longer seeking to demolish it. and instead has put a considerable amount of capital into keeping the existing structure standing. From the testimony that he and his attorney gave at both public hearings, it does not appear that the buildings in question are still in danger of being demolished, and if so, they would have to come back and again put in a request to be demolished. And he has actually made a good faith effort to preserve the buildings. There is no longer an immediate threat of demolition. Additionally, I've heard from the neighboring property owners, most of whom are not in favor of the landmarking because they have new-built homes in that area. They raised the concern that landmarking the site would be unduly burdensome to the owner, and I'm inclined to agree. I've also reviewed the criteria for the designation before by the Preservation Board and all the and although i agree that the development of the complex is interesting i have some issues with the documentation that the preservation board presented to this body first there was no support given for the statement that the crosby company was one of the first and certainly among the most prominent sheet metal manufacturers in North America. Second, the board identified a man by the name of Theodore Klein Schmidt as a successful businessman who operated on site, but there's no explanation of what contributions, if any, he made to the city of Buffalo. Third, William Crosby donated a considerable amount of money to the construction of Crosby Hall at UB South, but I'm not convinced that is significant enough contribution to our city to want this council landmark in the building. Finally, there are several places in the application where there is no explanation of why the site qualifies as a local landmark. For example, the preservation board lists criteria number nine from the city code, which states, quote, it is a unique location or contains physical characteristics that make it an established or familiar visual feature. within the city, end quote, but there is no proof given of how this site meets that standard. The application actually repeats these exact same words verbatim as the reasoning. While I've been advised that the council can landmark a building over property owner's objection, we still must be sensitive, I believe, to Mr. Crosby's concern, whose family has owned this building for decades, to take them into consideration. If we hold him to standards that make it financially difficult for him to continue his operation, then we not only potentially lose the building, but the business that has been in operation for decades. I think that the major, that it would be a major loss to not just the owner but the neighboring community and to the city as a whole for those reasons. I put this on file with the clerk for the record for the denial. Next item. Item number 25, rezone oldest place from a CM in R3 to a TD for development. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 26, tire booting in private lots. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Potosian. Claims Committee, item number 27, personal injury. Motion to approve item 27 through item 67. Thank you. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Mr. President, I'm going to be in the negative on item number 31. Please note item number 31, Councilmember Golombek, we're just probably all trying to go back and see which one, will be in the negative. Anybody else? Next slide. Item number 68, Claims Committee Agenda. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro-Tim Scanlon. resolutions item number 90 a point marriage officer motion is not moving all right it's the motion to the motion to approve items 90 to 94 what one minute we on resolutions about that which motion to adopt item number 90 most to adapt setting my council member present item number 91 lamp way is that a motion to approve items 91 through 94 yes sir second by councilmember your little item number 95 home will request to amend assembly bill motion to doubt second by councilmember Golan bank Item number 96, appoint Stephanie Williams as Assistant Legislative A2. Motion to adopt items 97 and 90, 96 and 97. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. On item 97, that is the LACE file, there is a budget proposal currently in the Assembly to allocate $4 million to assist the refugees that are resettlement. As you know, they come in and there's a transition period that the resettlement agencies have are reimbursed for this year because of a travel ban both in the Senate and in the Assembly there's a proposal to increase it by four million dollars to help that period so we're joining our colleagues Chris Jacobs Pat Gallivan on the Republican side and on the Assembly side Sean Ryan and his colleagues, so we're just joining asking the governor to include it in this year's budget. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. I'm sorry, Council Member Glumberg? Could we revisit item number 95, please? Motion. Motion to revisit item 95. Second by Council Member Fileto. Council Member Golombi, Council Floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank Council Member Scanlon for helping me put together this substitution. By putting this substitution together, it's a lot less rancorous. All nine of our colleagues, or all nine of us, ended up voting in favor of it. And I think that while we all have slightly different visions for the future, I think that all nine of us realize and support rideshare coming to Buffalo. on each of us just has slightly different emphases that we are placing on it i think uh... you know the one thing that we can all agree to those that we do want to make sure that it is a fair equitable playing field in that the residents of the city of buffalo and the visitors who come here are going to be held uh... uh... harmless and uh... uh... in as much safety as possible so i want to thank council member scanlon for working me with working with me on this and my colleagues for voting for it. Thank you, Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Mr. President. I think Council Member Glubbock hit the nail on the head there. We all might see little specific changes we might want to see, but for the most part, we all want ride-sharing here in Buffalo, and we want it as soon as possible. Last year, as we all know, we passed a resolution unanimously supporting ride sharing and urging, if not demanding, that the governor and the state legislature be responsible, pass it, and do it immediately. Unfortunately, those efforts fell short last year for the second year in a row. However, this year the Governor and the State Senate are doing their part and they're being responsible. They've included ride-sharing in their budget. They've listened to the 80% of the constituency that they represent. We're in favor of ride-sharing. And in their proposals, there are things such as a workers' compensation fund, which will be the first one in the country, mandatory background checks, which also exist in 39 other states, zero tolerance policy on discrimination, a disability task force which will put in place accessibility for all riders, which is extremely important, and a per ride fee which will provide revenue to the local municipalities. So now I would just ask that our representatives in the assembly move forward and do the same as well and act responsibly and pass ride sharing as soon as possible. And I want to thank you and Councilmember Golombek for working together to hammer out something that all of us could support. I think that all Councilmembers are always concerned about the local economy and people who are already doing a job. uh... that does not take away that concern course we want taxis on the road we want to work on the role of what you know in uh... all the transportation that we can get on the road as we saw this week uh... having such a big event you know you need it we need it much more transportation that we had on the road but i think what is what is soon in this council and with the council members that are here uh... that there might be different approaches but at the end of the day We get in a room, we hammer it out, we work it out, and we bring back good legislation for good resolutions for the citizens as a whole. So thank you both. Next item. Item number 98, create additional public access channels specifically for immigrant and refugee community. Motion to send to CDE. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. After hearing some of the issues regarding our refugee community and immigrant community, I thought this would be a great idea to add to our public access capabilities. capabilities is that many times we can't communicate with these folks because of course we don't speak the language. So I thought adding an access channel where they can put their information out, they can have banners, whatever it is, to be able to have communication with them Many of us have public access. A lot of the information I get, to be quite honest, I look and get it from public access. So I think providing that vehicle to the immigrant community will be another way to at least get the information out to them that sometimes they kind of miss. So I'm hopeful that we can support this and work with public access to make sure that the members of that community have access to it, know what it's about, know how to create their own information. again, so that when they come into this community, they have an area that they can go, if they can't come downtown, if they have public access in their homes or in a neighbor's home, they can go there and see information about how they can get information so that they can live the American dream. But it's about information. Information is power. We need to provide that to them. And I think in this way of providing it in this format or station that's tailored towards them would allow them that information. You say forestation, so is this, and I'm sorry, I can't pull out the item. Can you just kind of explain a little bit of what the resolution said? Well, basically it talks about the population, the increased population in the refugee community And since we have these three public access, well, we have government access, we have public access, but this would be a station geared towards that community where they can go. It could be a channel number 23 that they can go to and they can get information that's tailored towards them, that's in their language, because currently, if you put it on public access, How do you find it? Where is it? And is the information going to be in their language? So part of the negotiated and what is required by the government, and probably Councilman Fontana is about to echo or talk about this, I assume, is PEG acts as public, educational, and government. And so some of this, and I agree with you, it would be wonderful if they give it to us. They don't have to give it to us. But I think encouraging that that to happen. Now they are required to provide PEG access. There's no requirement to add another channel. But I think that this council pushing it, I think that it is a wonderful idea, by the way. If it could be there where there's all kinds of languages spoke on that channel and I think it's a wonderful idea. But those are the three they're required right now to provide. Council Member Fontana? This is a great idea for a new channel. When we asked for another channel, we've been asking now for seven years. Tom Terrapacki and I at the table with Jimmy Pajak were asking for an extra channel. They asked us, well, what are you going to do with it? We said, well, future growth. And they were... pretty dismissive of the idea at the time they were saying well you had too much repetition now how many times people got to see the same council show how many times people got to see the same you know uh show and we said well there's room in the existing channels for more content that's fine we understand that there's future growth and here you go here's an idea coming right out of the university district that is for future growth um so i don't know how willing they're going to be to negotiate this new entity that's formed spectrum but they are at the table it's a great way to reintroduce the idea of an extra channel i think we i think we could use it and to have it geared towards maybe three hours here, three hours there, two hours there, to have a specific language and programming in that and then expand as needed and change it up. People could then know when to tune in and watch for different information. You could also have shows on there how to deal with the police. The police could give information how to deal with the fire department, how to call for helps. Basic things, what to do with your money, not to leave it in the house because unfortunately the Burmese community was being pillaged by their own members because they wouldn't trust the banks. So they would go to the police So they were leaving money home and they were getting robbed. And when they were caught, it was people from their own community stealing the money. So good information could be given out to refugees coming into the city on how to interact with the city residents and how to be a good neighbor. I agree. I can already see the vision. Thank you very much. I just want to thank the University District Council member. I probably have the most... concentration of refugees and immigrants along with the North District than any other part in the city and it's refreshing to see somebody from the University District being an advocate and a spokesperson for those that are voiceless in the community and I just want to thank you and it kind of warms you when people outside of the community actually are the one that say hey they're voiceless and we want to hear from them so thank you very much That is probably the fastest growing demographic in the City of Buffalo. If you look at reapportionment in the year 2020, the largest growing community in the City of Buffalo will be immigrants and refugees. And this is according to the administration downstairs. I've been to meetings, and they're looking at numbers. And that is the fastest-growing demographic. And it's nice. They're still voiceless. They're looking to us because they don't have their own representatives. There are language barriers, and they have few leaders that can... they go back to them and translate information to them. But here they have a channel that they can look to in certain cultural events, information that they can access, and perhaps things that are happening right here in City Hall they can access in their own language via this... this channel. So this is another step that the city of Buffalo is doing to be more welcoming to the refugees of this community, the new refugees, because they continue to come to this city. Buffalo is a resettlement city, and that is the growing population right now. So I want to thank you for speaking up for them. Thank you very much. Absolutely. Both resolutions that dealt with that community unanimously approved today on this council. We are open for business. Next item. Item number 99, salary and wage schedule. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 11, Commissioner of the East. Item number... 100 I was wondering do we go back to the top motion to adopt item number 102 which is right in front of you guys is what just a discharge of legislation that's the late file gentlemen that is motion to adopt the discharge motion to adopt the discharge second by council member fearl motion now is to approve the license motion is true with conditions all right with who's which condition set by council member Fair Letters. Fair Letters. Motion is to approve the conditions set by Council Member Fair Letters who has the floor. Thank you. The conditions for this, they're allowed to have live music on the first floor which operates as special events, banquets, weddings. On the second floor there's going to be a restaurant opening and they have a lot of they are not allowed to have live music on the second floor during the restaurant so those are the conditions the applicant agrees and accepts it great thank you sir and there is we need to do a revisitation of item 101 101 majority leader motion to revisit item 101 second by councilmember why motion to approve motion to approve second by councilmember why Announcements of regular committees. Committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, March 28, 2017 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service, is Tuesday, March 28, 2017 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, March 28, 2017 at 1 p.m. And committee on legislation is Tuesday, March 28, 2017 at 2 p.m. Council members, any announcements other than sports? Council Member Wingo. Sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Monday at 6 p.m. we will have our deli store meeting again, which was inspired by Council Member Wyatt and his model of ensuring that the deli stores are being held accountable and that they're being responsible in their actions as they're doing business and conducting business in our communities. We want them to be socially responsible. So we've gotten our... conditions for all of the deli stores. It had to be rescheduled because of the weather. So they are going to be Monday, 6 p.m. Wait a minute. We only go to March. The 27th. Right. Monday, March 27th at 6 p.m. We'll have that official signing of all of our food deli stores. And I'm being obedient. Is there anything else you want to say? No, I'm being obedient. You said no, no, I can't say that mass in one. Well, I'm going to tell you this. I've got to figure one of your colleagues is going to break the rule. So you can go ahead and break the rule. I don't want to break the rule. Just go ahead and say I can say it so I can say it. I'm not going to break the rule. Anybody else? Floor recognizing no others. No.
 Mr. Chair, thank you so much. I just want to, first of all, thank you for your vision regarding the Stop the Madness basketball tournament. It was an extraordinary success. I thank all my colleagues who participated. It was something that we as council members really had an opportunity to really change the conversation and give a message to our young people about the violence that's happening in our community. To see the parents, to see our first responders participate, I was very fortunate to have two of my CPOs as coaches. that really speaks volumes for us trying to merge and change the conversation that our police and our young people are at odds. No, they are together. We just got to put them in situations where it's not the challenges that we have when we're out on the street. They were so excited. And to see a lot of the police officers there and first responders there, it meant a lot. And it spoke volumes about how they – what this means to our community. So I'm really looking forward to us continuing this. It was a timing issue, but we got it done and have our staff, and I want to thank our staff because our staff, your staff, and my staff, Vernie and Tawana and Felicia and Sandra and Bria and all of our staffs who worked so diligently. This is something that we did, it took some time, but they had to put a lot of effort in it and they had to do a lot of coordination. No it wasn't perfect, but it was our first time and it was successful. So I want to thank them, I want to thank all the folks who participated. Our Chief Carmen Menza did an interview on Channel 2 and he spoke to the importance of it from him as a Chief. Again, it sent a message that we have to work together. These are our young people. I'm a father and I want to make sure that my young person has guidance in the village that supports them. He was speaking out. George Johnson and Murray Holman from the Peacemakers. pal and nikita kemp and the bikes and the helmets imperial food market and all the coaches and referees who made this a tremendous success and i also want to just kind of let you all know that university did bring home the middle school uh championship so i want to thank you for the show But again, I'm bragging about that, but the importance of young people who didn't work together, who hadn't played together, who came and participated, it spoke volumes. So I want to thank you and thank again our colleagues in this council for supporting and doing something that speaks volumes for the City of Buffalo, how working together works and how we all have a vested interest in our young people. Thank you. And for the record, Mastin took home the trophy for... Well, Maxton won for high schoolers. They beat University by two points, so, I mean, they did win. Don't play the victory. A win is a win. A win is a victory. We took home the W. Thank you very much. Lovejoy's team was outstanding and amazing. Again, I just echo those words very quickly. I think the four districts now, we want to make sure, and the only reason that there was those four, because we just pulled it together so quickly, and we're afraid could we even handle that, but it was good. And I cannot say enough, and you mentioned somebody out of your district, Price Choppers. who provided food and he came to the events and tried to get to all of them and I'm not giving them a commercial but publicly they didn't have to and so thank you to my colleagues you made it happen you look wonderful on channel 7 council member Scanlon I was just gonna say something along those lines so you may have won but you would have eaten without Imperial Pizza and so forth right exactly and and and that's a really good point because there were businesses that were not in our districts that still saw the importance and to see even the diversity that was there in the kids that were playing together in the police and fire and all those folks so you said it all you summed it up wonderfully but at both of those days I went home exhausted even though I didn't play but just exhausted from all the activity, but just it felt good to be exhausted for the right reasons. So thank you to the city of Buffalo. Thank you. Any other announcements? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Fontana.