Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. I'm key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tems Gallin. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge.
 I would like to lead the of United States of America to the very heart of our coalition stance, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. We are joined by our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, council president. In a city like Buffalo, generally when I come to the microphone, I talk about things
 that are familiar to our city. Not everybody would be familiar, I don't think, with how international our city has become. Many of you here on the console, some of you as well in the audience are. I had a wonderful treat yesterday. I was invited by a business here in the City of Buffalo to come, and they were unfurling the flags of all their employees of this particular company.
 And we had the flags of Iraq, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Congo, Cuba, Eritrea, Guinea, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Somalia. And at the end, the U.S. flag. And the owner put up the Ukraine flag, so we'd have a moment for that as well. And these employees in a factory setting here in Buffalo came in beautiful National Guard clothes.
 I mean, they were just decked out with pride as their flag was unfurled from a country that most of them had left as refugees. And as we see so much of that happening today, we're reminded that the city of good neighbors is becoming a city of international neighbors.
 the restaurant flavors that are available, the stores for shopping now represent the world. In a city of old steel town like Buffalo, we've become a very United Nations kind of a city. This morning I heard that we'll probably be getting some of those that are coming from Ukraine as well. It was an intriguing time. I got to hear the national anthem sung by a group from Bangladesh. It's amazing what dwells among us, sometimes a bit hidden.
 And so I was asked to just bless the flags of all these nations. The scripture that I used was Exodus 23, 9. Do not oppress a foreigner. You yourselves, and he was talking to the Jews, know how it feels to be foreigners because you were foreigners in Egypt. What he's saying is you aren't all that distance from the time when you were the one that was on the outside looking in. Almost everybody in this room, decades or centuries ago, our forefathers came as immigrants, some as refugees to the land of freedom.
 and liberty. I want us as a council, us as a city to be incredibly welcoming to those who come, whose lives have been uprooted, who many through no fault of their own need a place to call home.
 And I want this to be the kind of place, I've talked to many of you on the council about how we can welcome those who come among us, those displaced and uprooted folks. Before I pray, I'll just remind you of those words at the end of the plaque on Lady Liberty from October 28th, 1886. Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.
 the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-lost to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door. Our Father, we thank you that this city is called a city of good neighbors. And Lord, I declare this is a place where we welcome those who come
 And increasingly, they come from the nations of the earth. Lord, as I was looking at those flags, seeing tears in the eyes of those who come to now call Buffalo home, as they thought, dressed, ate in ways much like they might have back in their previous place. But here, Lord, they're making a new home. We welcome them.
 as a council, as a city, as citizens, we welcome them. And Lord, we look back to time when we were the ones coming to a new country, a new land. Father, let this be a place where we're not just a city of good neighbors to people who've been here longest, but people who come the newest. Let it be a place where the torch of Lady Liberty is held high to welcome to our shores and our city people who are coming for freedom.
 And Lord, again, we pray for the fight that continues in Ukraine. And we slide our shoulders and prayers alongside those brave souls that are fighting so valiantly. Lord, thank you that today you are bringing freedom in places near and far. We thank you in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain, Councilmembers, Memorials, Councilmember Golombet.
 Thank you, Mr. President. The Black Rock, historic Black Rock neighborhood lost longtime resident Carolyn Hagg this past week. She will be very, very sorely missed by her friends in Black Rock, her family members, the Rowell family.
 as well as she was a regular correspondent to the old Riverside Review newspaper. And about once a month, she would send in sometimes the funniest little snippets that she would mail in as editorials, but she's gonna be very, very sorely missed by family and friends. Council Member Bolton.
 In Lovejoy, we lost Ms. Amelia Bevlock. She's actually the mother of Patrick Bevlock, who is our maintenance guy here at City Hall, helps us keep our council offices clean. But the longtime Lovejoy residents, very active in the community throughout the years, members of the Big Timers Club. So I just want to keep them in our thoughts as well. Absolutely. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We are saddened by the loss of one of our longtime soldiers in Mastin District.
 and the person of David Lee Worthy. Mr. Worthy never ceased to call the office. I'm sure Tiana remembers who he is. He lived on Durham, and he would call and complain about the parking from the folks at the hospital. He would call and complain about the folks running the stop signs. And he would not just complain, though, and I said that for a reason, because he was also one to engage in community work.
 He didn't shy away from coming to the breakfasts with his camera. He never shied away from ensuring that the community was beautiful. His house was a model house on the corner of Durham and Litchfield.
 And Mr. Worthy would call me down the street and I would be visiting my godchildren. He'd call me down the street and he'd have me on his porch for about a good 20 minutes. And we'd be talking about what he used to do and how he would get engaged in different aspects of community. He will be sorely missed, but he also is from South Carolina, where my father is from. Migrated here a long time ago. He lived to be 96 years old.
 But I promise you, the only way you could tell Mr. Worthy was 96 years old is because he moved a little slow. His mind was sharp as ever. He just moved a little slower than he used to move. Mr. Worthy was the last.
 living member of the Cosmopolitan Lodge No. 3, Incorporated of the Ancient York Masons for the State of New York, which was established in Lackawanna. He was a trailblazer and he blazed many trails at that. He loved gardening. Again, he would make sure that his house was always a model house sitting there on the corner as a beacon.
 to the rest of the community. And Mr. Worthy leaves behind his children, David Jr., Diane Jackson, Calvin and Deidre Grant, and his brother, Glenn.
 Now, you may know one of his grandchildren, a couple of his grandchildren, because it seems like all of his children had done well and his grandchildren had done well. But Stephen Perry was one of his grandchildren married to Lynn, his granddaughter. And we just thank God for this stalwart of a man, this great ambassador of a Christian who was a member of St. John Baptist Church and served.
 as an usher. He was a great person, a great role model. He will absolutely be sorely missed. And thank you for the city of Buffalo for allowing us these times to memorialize and just talk about the great people that we have serving in the city of Buffalo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Absolutely. Anyone else?
 We remember Jerry Livingston, who was a premier musician. He played for many churches. He played for Rick James. He played for the Mary Jane Girls. And he has passed, his services will be at the True Bethel Church on Friday night and
 at the Elam Church on Saturday. We also remember Darren Muhammad, who was funeralized today from True Bethel, who is the son of Karlanda Meadors, who is very active with Stop the Violence and so many groups. And she and his father were very strong today in sending out a message publicly and asked me to share about mental health.
 and what he dealt with. And she allowed that to be a part of his service and have mental health professionals at his service and information about mental health. He was only 20 something years old. And I commend his parents for wanting to help other people during their crisis and being public about it and taking the stigma off of mental health.
 We pause in these chambers for all of those. And of course, anyone who has given their life for the freedom of our country or any other country. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. So we have representatives from...
 I'm sorry, from the Ukraine community as our chaplain talked about Ukraine today. It's all right. Never have you working to.
 We know of the events that are happening right now in Ukraine, and all council members have unanimously signed off on this proclamation. Whereas on February 24, 2022, Russian forces launched an unprovoked full-scale invasion of the peaceful and independent country of Ukraine.
 Whereas the city of Buffalo and the Buffalo Common Council have supported the free and sovereign nation of Ukraine.
 having gained its independence in 1991 with their Independence Day being celebrated on August 24th, whereas the United States, the City of Buffalo, and the Buffalo Common Council all continue its support of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Now, therefore, we, the entire City Council,
 hearts go out to the innocent victims of this unfounded and unnecessary war.
 including the families and children who have been killed and injured, and pledge our continued support to Ukraine and its people. And this is signed by all members of the Buffalo Common Council. We have with us your... I'm not even going to try to pronounce. Joe is going to pronounce your full name. I'll say Yuri, and then you can tell them your full name. We stand with you. Thank you, Council President.
 Council President, members of the Common Council, fellow Buffalonians, I'm honored to be here to accept this resolution on behalf of the Ukrainian Congress Committee of America and the residents of our Western New York community, Ukrainian Americans and others who are currently fighting this battle for democracy in Ukraine. I appreciate your support.
 But it's a sad day. It's a sad day for Buffalo. It's been a sad month for Ukraine and the world. Unfortunately, the Russian army continues to promulgate this war, even though they've already lost. They don't know it, but they lost over 15,000 Russian soldiers.
 dead, many innocent civilians in Ukraine, including over 100 children now, have died as a result of being terrorized by these forces. This is an unjust war. Hopefully, we'll come to a conclusion soon, but it can only come to that conclusion if we persevere and prevail. Thank you all for your support, and let's pray for peace.
 Now say this, I know that there was a call from some in the county to end our relationship with our sister city in Russia. And to be very honest.
 I was supportive of that until talking to Yuri and what he asked and what others have asked is give us time to talk to the sister city and see if they're supporting this war. And if they're not, we want to work with them in peace that shows you the heart of the Ukrainian people. And so we're supporting their decision, but they did tell us stand by, because if we need you will call you and we respect that. Thank you.
 We have a presentation from Council Member Bowman. Good afternoon everyone. I have here with me today Yvonne McCray who's our Director of Housing for Beura and I just had to take a second to recognize Yvonne for her amazing efforts, extraordinary efforts.
 She's always been a great resource to my office in the Lovejoy district and I'm sure many other council members, but recently I received a call from a 90 year old senior after the recent flooding and rainfall events and her basement had flooded lost her hot water tank lost her furnace.
 And it was Friday at 10 a.m., worried about her over the weekend, called Yvonne. She found emergency assistance and was able to, you know, help us get that senior taken care of. So very much appreciative of Yvonne's efforts. And I'll just read this proclamation briefly. But the Buffalo Common Council recognizes Yvonne McCray's dedication to hard work during the recent destructive flooding across the city of Buffalo.
 Yvonne stepped forward and found emergency assistance for a senior in need within a day to ensure she would not be without heat or displaced. We thank you for being a force of good in our community and your commitment to the citizens of the city of Buffalo. So thank you very much Yvonne. Thank you, Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Council President. And to all the council members, staff and guests, I just wanna recognize those members of the Division of Housing staff, the Bureau staff and OSP staff if you stand up.
 I work together with a tremendous group of people. And I know you all have the same experience. None of us can do this alone. So we have to work together. We are always better together. And so I share this honor with you all because you make all of this happen on behalf of the council and the bureau board, the mayor and our executive director and vice chairman, Brennan Mahaffey. So thank you again, Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Council President Pridgen. Thank you, Common Council members. So much appreciate you taking the time to recognize our work. Thank you.
 And a lot of people don't know all the affordable housing going on in the city of Buffalo. It only happens by all of that staff up there and by Yvonne, if Yvonne says no, it's hard to get it done. So she makes some hefty decisions and has done a great job in really assisting people, but getting them into houses that are affordable seems to be her heart. So thank you for doing that. Thanks, thanks.
 All righty, on a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on March 8th, 2022 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Council Member Scanlon. I'd like to object to the late files 74 and 75. 74 and 75. Those items will be submitted for the next meeting.
 All right. No other objections. We will hear the entire agenda that is before us, not taking away your right to pause the meeting in order to review any item that you may not have had a chance to receive.
 Majority Leader, are we going from the top? From the top. Item number one, Beverly Gray Business Exchange Center Funding Agreement. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Frielo. Item number two, Report to Cell 104, Farmer Street. Motion to approve items two through six. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to speak on item number five, which is a request to approve the report of sale for St. Luke's Mission of Mercy to Build Promise. St. Luke's is a wonderful organization in the Fillmore District that encompasses a large swath of the
 portion of the east side that takes care of a lot of the residents in my district, but also throughout western New York and the city of Buffalo. And today is now a new chapter to St. Luke's because they had to clear a big hurdle to get these lots of land transferred over to St. Luke's.
 So I just want to thank Kathleen Mattar and the thankless board that has been working really hard with the city to make sure that these parcels will be well developed and will be contributing parcels to the city of Buffalo in my district and now it's my official promise to them to it's off to the races you got to raise money to get this building built and I have faith that they will do it.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I know someone contacted me, Anthony Nannula. I don't think he's here. He said he might come through. Oh, I'm looking all over for you. Anthony called me yesterday. They are all excited. The family is excited. I can't tell too much of, but I'll say the family has been very involved with that facility. And so we're glad to have you in Buffalo and to be in our chambers today, the entire family. So good work. All righty.
 Item number seven, appoint deputy director of planning. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Bowman. Item number eight, revise regular committee appointments. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Frioletto. Item number nine, revise common council rules. Motion to adopt. Second by council member Scanlon, who has the floor. Yeah, if I could address item number eight.
 Yes. You know, I was watching caucus yesterday. I was a bit confused when we were talking about the council was talking about reducing the number of committee appointments to four. If I'm not mistaken, the reason was given to ensure quorum. However, I don't understand how this ensures quorum. In fact, there's no more danger to quorum with five committee members as there are with four committee members for starters.
 and as always has been permitted by this council, we can appoint another member to a committee for the day if need be. And even in addition to that, and probably which makes this much more clear cut is the,
 You're required to have the same number of people three for quorum whether there's five or four people sitting on a committee. In my opinion, the only thing that reducing or changing the number of committee numbers to four does is potentially create a log jam in a committee vote at two to two, and therefore stifling the business of the council there's a long term, two to two vote. Um,
 i fear that maybe in the future there could be times if there's council members who are not okay with an item we would maybe not send an item to committee and therefore the public doesn't get the opportunity to engage in that item because it's sent right to council for a vote where the public cannot come in and discuss the item and in addition to this there's an item coming up next
 The committee appointments were filed and some of those committees still have five people on them. So I was just a bit, I was a bit confused by the change into the for the reasoning, and ultimately, why on the next item which I can discuss then there's five on some of those committees still.
 So the, so that we don't run into a thing of not having a quorum, because once we go down one more, the quorum would be three. There have been times when it was close and there was nobody to appoint. So we just didn't want the city's business to get held up and we can, I mean, I'm still going to put it forward. We can discuss it further. And then I don't mind adjusting it if we can. Yeah, I just think we can talk about it because whether it's four people on the committee or five people on committee quorum, still three people. Right.
 With the five is three. We got the majority. We can discuss. Did you get a second? Yeah. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 10, appoint IT Specialist 1.
 Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 11, notification serial to install alternate parking. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 12, change order bike master plan. Motion to approve items 12 through 16. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 17 paper substitution have been submitted on the floor permission request for hatch restaurant complex Lake Erie dock motion is sent to CD. Second by Councilmember no council did you still want to send it. Actually, can we prove this today. So we held this up because there was a question about.
 I had a question about the outside and like the hot dog area and all that. It didn't have covering. So the restaurant would, but people would stand outside.
 The council member I met over with the council member and the applicant, and they're willing to, and they amended it, put a covering over that area so people are not outside in the rain when they're getting it. So whatever, I know we're sending it to finance, but that was only to get them in front of us. And especially since they put the language in the contract, we know that they'll be held to it. So I think we can, are safe enough to approve it. Okay. Everybody's good. Yep. Okay.
 Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 18, reported bids, engine for temporary structure. Your item, I'm sorry, which item? Item number 18, reported bids. Motion to approve items 18 through 29. Second by Council Member Golombek.
 Item number 30, appoint labor to permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 31, approval to purchase 20 new police vehicles. Motion to approve items 31 and 32. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 33, appoint Deputy Police Commissioner. Motion to send to civil service items 33 and 34. Second by Council Member Noakowski.
 Council Member Scala. Just quickly on item 32. Again, I was watching caucus yesterday. I know you brought up the concern about purchasing electric vehicles, and I appreciated that. I'd like to see the administration moving forward to please look at any opportunity we have to purchase those electric vehicles. Obviously, with that being taking place in the world right now, you see the spikes in gas, and that doesn't mean it's going to be a one-time thing. So that could be on and off, obviously. So thank you for bringing that up the other day, and I would be fully in support of looking at that down the road.
 Yeah, and they so you know, we we have them submit a letter stating why they can't. And so on this one, it was because it's a police vehicle already ready. But I agree, especially for something like this with behavioral health team because they're not out all day, and it can be charged very quickly. So thank you.
 Next item. Item number 35, contract with City of Buffalo MS Analytical Investors Air Sampling and Monitoring. Motion to approve items 35, approve items 36 with condition, approve items 37, approve items 38 with conditions, and 39 is an approve as well. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 40, used car dealer 77 Sycamore.
 I defer to the council member from the North District. Council member? This is 77 second more. Yeah, this is not North. It's not North. Let's send it to committee until we know what's going on with it. It'll go to legislation majority leader. Second by council member, go on that whose district is not in.
 Item number 41, purchase of prisoner meals. Motion to approve items 41 through 43. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 44, appoint director of personnel. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Noah Kowski.
 Item number 45, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval and disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 45 through 50. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 51, appoint personnel assistant. Motion to send to civil service items 51 and 52. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item number 53, appoint legislative assistant.
 Motion to adopt items 53 and 54. Second by Councilmember Winkle. Item number 55, Board of Education Opposition to Special Use Permit for 1963 Fillmore. Motion to receive and file items 55 and 56. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 57, Basketball Hoops at the Westminster School. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number 58, Northland Beltline Taxpayers Association opposition to special use permit for 1963 Fillmore. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Mr. Chair. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This property has received a lot of attention in the Mastin District as of late, and I would like to also just state for the record that the honorable
 Sharon Belton-Kotman also emailed more petitions regarding the opposition of this establishment today. So those if possible will be filed with this item. All righty, those will be filed for the record.
 Item number 59, Theater District Association Resolution for Mr. Harold Cohen. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Freer-Leto. Item number 60, Letter Regarding 1963 Fillmore. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Submission list, Civil Service. Item number 1, Crystal Middleton, COA for Director of Planning.
 Motion is to approve items 1 through and including 5. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Item number 6, Notice of Appointments to Provisional Permanent. Motion is to receive and file item 6 through and including 13. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Finance, item number 14, CDBG-CV Amendment. Motion to approve items 14 and 15. Second by Council Member, I'm sorry, by Council Member, Bolton.
 Community Development, item number 16, report is still 86 Olympic. Motion is to approve with conditions. Seconded by Councilmember White, conditions will be filed.
 Legislation item number 17 dance hall license TNT entertainment motion to approve with conditions item 17 and 18. Second by Councilmember Wyatt conditions will be filed. Item number 19 special use permit 1869 Seneca for auto repair. Motion to deny items 19 and 20. Deny items 19 and 20? Yes. Will the reasons be filed?
 reasons for Mastin to be filed, reasons for South will be filed. I'm sorry. Did you want to state it? Yes. What I want to say, I'm sorry. Yes. The applicant has actually, I have not heard from the applicant in several months combined with the fact that there was another operation, somewhere in the city of Buffalo where there were a number of problems. For that reason, we were able to deny it. Yeah, of course. That was denied. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number 21, special use permit 662 Fillmore. Motion to approve items 21 and 22. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 23, food store license renewals for 2022. Motion to receive and file 23 and 24. Second by Council Member Golombic. Resolutions. Item number 61, ordinance amendment chapter 194, food stores. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 62, budget and personnel amendment.
 Motion to approve item 62 through 64. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 65, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 66, Commissioner of Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt item 66 and 67. Second by Council Member White. Council Member Scanlon. Yeah, if I could please address item number 66. You certainly may. Thank you. I'm sorry. 67. 67, I apologize. Yes.
 I'd like to be recorded in the negative on this item. You know, the control board was created to serve as oversight on the city of Buffalo, this legislative body being part of that. I'm confused why a member of our body would then be appointed to the board, which offers this body advice. And I know, I'm sure we'll hear that the mayor and the county executive are members of that board, but I view that as an administrative function.
 administrators, those two people as administrators and the control board serving in an administrative function. In addition to that, we are just talking about appointing the chair of the finance committee. And currently there are no requirements or qualifications to serve as the chair of the finance committee for our rules and charter. We are, the chair is designated by the council president.
 Um, so I am, I'll be honest with you. I think the time for the control board has come and gone.
 but I think if we are going to go down this road, that the council, instead of putting one of our own members on the board should maybe look to appoint someone from outside who has a certain set of criteria, has met a certain set of criteria and has a certain set of qualifications, instead of again, appointing one of our own members to a board that is established for oversight of the administration, the council, et cetera. So for that reason, those reasons I'd like to be voted in negative.
 Absolutely. Council Member Golomba. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm also going to be in the negative for some similar and a few different reasons. You know, I agree that the problem is, well, going back to the mayor being an, I believe, ex officio voting member of the control board.
 I believe that that happened back in 03, 04, when Mayor Mazziello was mayor, so that they would have a representative from the administration that would be able to defend the city budget in front of the control board. When the control board first came in, it was a lot more contentious than it is now. I remember then majority leader, Mark Coppola at one point,
 there was an indirect threat that they were going to make the council do certain things. And council member, majority leader Kapolis said, well, I'm going to be doing a perp walk because you're going to arrest me if I don't basically, you know, do what you guys are telling me to do because we are an elected body, independently elected, so on and so forth. And so what happened was, you know, the mayor's job on the control board, from what I remember, was basically to go and defend the budget of the council.
 of the city of Buffalo, not necessarily his budget, but the budget of the city of Buffalo. That's where I think that having a representative from the council on there would be a little bit problematic because the role of the council, of course, is to look at the mayor's budget. And every year that we've been here, we tweak and make changes to the budget, perhaps not substantial, but there are certain things that we can't make changes to because of state law, federal, et cetera.
 but the concern that I would have is, is that the representative from this council and whether it would be chair of CD, finance, council president, whatever, does that person go over there and attack the budget or defend the budget? And depending on how that person sees his or her role,
 that person is in the back pocket of the mayor, that person's in the back pocket of the anti-mayor forces. And once again, not personalities, I'm just talking about the two separate bodies that are here because the one thing that I remember sitting down with council member Francik at the time and doing research on control boards, and we looked at places, I think Yonkers had one in several other municipalities,
 They had a lot of problems because there was horrible contention between the mayor, the council, the control board, state officials, et cetera. And I think that a decision was made, maybe a wink and nod decision. It was never a shake of hands or anything like that, but that the council and the mayor were going to work together. And remember this would have been Mayor Mazziello and a previous council at that time.
 Once Mayor Mazziello left and Mayor Brown came in, I think that there was sort of a little bit of that understanding that the control board was sort of the bad guy in a way, and that the city, whether it was the council, the mayor, et cetera, that there were times that, while we might not always agree with one another, but we sort of had to close ranks and do what we thought was best for the city of Buffalo.
 That's where I have a concern with having an actual member of the council go over there, because what would that person's role be? Criticize the budget before it's approved by the mayor, criticize the budget in general. I think it just sends a very, very mixed message.
 I think that Mr. Scanlon's idea is to have a representative perhaps appointed by the council, clears that up a little bit. So that would be my recommendation. That's why I would be voting no on this item. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also would like to be accorded in the negative for the following reason, and that would be just for simply having bias. I think that it will be a conflict of interest. I believe that if a person from this council, as we do, as we scrutinize and critique the mayor's budget anyhow, we would go in with an initial disdain.
 implicit bias. And it will be very, very clear that when we go into the meeting, we would be there not to try to come to any type of reasonable outcome, but to, again, continue our scrutinization of the mayor's budget. Now, I could see the administration having a representative from that office there, even the mayor himself, to defend his or her budget.
 But in this instance, our job as the elected body of this city to lead legislatively, I don't think that it will be within our purview or our scope to sit on that board. Now, I do believe a great resolution would be that of Councilmember Scanlon, and that is for this body, if necessary, to elect someone to that body.
 but I do also believe that their time has come and it has gone. I do not believe they're effective. I do not believe that they are even necessary at this point. Therefore, this conversation to me is moot, and we should not even go any further with it other than taking some type of action to dissolve the board altogether. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Councilman? Yes. The one thing I did want to point out to anyone that might be watching is that this body doesn't automatically get to appoint anyone to that control board. That's an act of the state and the governor who would appoint someone to that board. So I just wanted to also point that out to the public.
 Absolutely. I'll just give a brief and then I'll come to the concept of why this is here. The control board, of course, was before the finance committee. They asked one of the members, well, the chairman asked, well, if you all have any suggestions, send them over because we don't have a quorum.
 or we at times many times don't have a quorum which means they don't have a meeting and we do not have any authority so this is a a suggestion to them um i agree i wish there was no control board at all obviously i mean this council could begin um to ask our state delegation and others um to reconsider the control board i don't know why uh
 We are paying over a million dollars for a board that at times does not give us timely information. And information is power and the information that we need to make the right decisions. The control board has so much that they do are supposed to do beyond the budget. And I don't think we get.
 half of the bang for the buck. I think that it should be dissolved. I believe that at this time, at one time they wanted, the thought was they would sell our bonds. I was vehemently against that because that would keep them in operation until the bonds are paid off, which means any savings that we might have would be sold. So I think that's a good thing.
 would be now still paying for staff, paying for rent. I've said it before, we got a huge city hall here, but they're in a whole another building that we're paying for rent, that we're paying other expenses. It makes no sense.
 But at the end of the day, they asked, so this resolution just gives suggestion, but I understand your concerns. Council Member Beard. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was at the meeting and the control board themselves highlighted the need to have someone. They couldn't get put together a quorum. The information that they got to us at times was late.
 because they received it late as well. There's nothing in law that precludes us from appointing the chair. There's a thought that perhaps because of conflict of interest, and perhaps there might be some back and forth with the administration,
 I don't see it that way. I see it as a way to better prepare us for the decisions that this council is going to make in terms of its finances. That is the lifeline of the city of Buffalo is our finances.
 To have the finance chair, I think, is an added benefit. We shouldn't see it as, oh, they're not going to get along with the administration or there's an agenda here. This is not about an agenda. This is about being prepared to make financial decisions here on the Common Council. I don't see anything that precludes us from doing that. We have a finance chair.
 who's done a great job on the finance committee and chairing i think in the last since i've been here he's probably been right up there in terms of finance chair who really cares about the city's finances and for that if it was another finance chair i would support it as well it doesn't matter the personality this is not about personality to me this is about being prepared to make
 decisions that we need to prioritize. And I think the state attorney general or even the governor's office should look at this. What better than connecting us to that process itself? I don't see any conflict there at all. And I don't see it, but we should get past the personalities and do the people's work. So I support your resolution and I hope
 that our state electeds see the need for this common council to be involved in the financial decisions, because we have fiduciary responsibilities to the citizens of the city of Buffalo as well. So thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for filing this resolution. Thank you, Council Member Whittemore. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Well, I do see an inherent problem, clearly right off the rip.
 there's an inherent problem because this becomes political now. Where the control board has no political ambition, our finance chair, whoever that person may be, regardless of personality, they may have political ambition. And this person may use these various seats to help them and their political aspirations. Aside from their bias,
 Aside from their agendas, they still may use this position to help them advance their political agendas. Now, clearly, though, and since it's clearly the chair for the Finance Committee is Rashid Wyatt, Councilmember Wyatt, he has clearly already expressed his disdain for the mayor and his budget.
 So, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so
 who fails to give communications, even us, when we were on those committees, to be the liaison between the council and the control board, of which a control board that we've all admitted we don't need anymore. This, to me, is the moot point. We don't need a control board. If we were going to put someone there to liaise between the council and the control board, let us all decide at a meeting prior to coming to council,
 of which or who that person should be, not coming here with the resolution, with the named individual, that I didn't get a phone call, nobody asked me, and this resolution clearly says this council, I am part of this council, I did not give my permission or my blessing for the committee chair of the finance department, of this chair, of this body, to be that individual. I agree, if we want someone to be responsible,
 our representative, let us all come together and let's all submit a name. Then let's all vote on that on these people and let them give their credential, just like the folks on this control board had to give their credential and their qualification to be on this control board. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Scanlon. Just quickly to...
 Council member Rivera's point. I just want to be clear at no point that I raised the problem of a conflict between a council member and the administration over there. That's not my concern. My concern is strictly qualifications and conflict of interest regarding the establishment of the control board and what it's set out to do versus what this body is set out to do. And council member Rivera stated, he believes that the current,
 the chair of the finance committee has done a wonderful job. And then followed up to say, and if it was another person, that would be fine. And there is my problem is there's no set qualifications, no set requirements to serve as that chair of that committee. And therefore, whoever's gonna be going over there to represent this body on the control board would not have that background. You have a board over there with former Dean of the law school
 You have a professor and an economist, another former dean of, I think, Madai, and people like that who have set qualifications you can look at that were reviewed and then put on that board. And that is my point, is that we should be looking at maybe an outside person to represent us to go over there. And again, I've stated, and I think...
 The control board's outlived its life. Obviously, there are issues that you raised with bonds and things like that. But appointing one of our own members to the board, I think, does create a problem without that set qualification. So I think it would be easier if this board was to look at someone from out, this council was to look at someone from outside this body to appoint over there. Thank you, sir. We'll record. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair, Mr. President. You know, I'm not going to go back and forth.
 You, like many of my colleagues, know my background in finance, 20 plus years, CFO, managed $16 billion portfolio, a whole lot of stuff I can talk about, but I'm not going to do that because that's not what this is about. This is about an individual that would support the efforts of the control board and with the administration to make the decision. But most of all, to have a meeting.
 That was the problem. And I think my colleagues who were here when the control board and asked questions and had dialogue with them understood this wasn't about appointing someone just because. It was trying to support them so that we can get information. But I appreciate your consideration of me. And, again, you knew that that wasn't something that I'm looking to do anything. I can stand on my own without being a council member, without being a – I've done things. This is not my sole –
 experience, thank God. But with that being said, whatever we do, we go forward. I'm glad that you have adopted it because this was their request and you responded to their request. Secondly, let me just make it clear. I don't have this thing for the mayor. The mayor is a nice guy. We may not agree on everything.
 But to say that I don't like him, that's not true. As a politician, as a representative of my district, I'm going to fight for the needs of my district. And when those things don't align, I'm going to stand up. But to say I don't like the mayor, please, let's cut it out. I'm a Christian man. I care about every single semen being. We may not agree, but just in our agreement doesn't mean I don't like you. And that's all I want to say. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I think, and I agree. I'm glad that you did file something in response to their concern about not being able to meet quorum over there. That should be a problem because if we are paying for them to operate, they should be operating and conducting their business, first and foremost. But secondly, I think you've seen here just in the next last 10, 15 minutes, the inherent problem of a member of this body going over there. You have the current chair who's saying now...
 it's being, he's being targeted, but that's not what I'm doing here. I'm saying the chair of that committee should, if we are going to be, if they were going to be sent over there, there should be set qualifications. But in addition to that, there are those conflicts of interest based on what this board's supposed to do and what this, that board is supposed to do. So again, just to reiterate, I think if we were going to go that route, we should look outside this body and found someone with a certain set of qualifications. We're recording and we'll finish discussion comes from
 Mr. Chair, as the sponsor of this resolution, would you be willing to amend your resolution so that I could vote for it and state that we would all come together and decide together as a body who we would think would be the best individual outside of this body or within this body even to represent
 this council on that board. Would you be willing? I would call this for a vote and then we'd move on from there. What's in front of us. And if it fails, then we come back. Well, the point, the point, Mr. President, is to vote on something that we can all vote on that we believe is equitable for all of us. You know, we we've stated some very valid reasons. I believe why we should not have one of us represent us on the council
 unnecessary control board. So I'm asking if you would be amenable to amending. Okay. We're recording Mr. Wingo in negative, Mr. Glumbeck in the negative, Mr. Scanlon in negative. Motion passes. Next item. Item number 68, Buffalo Police Stop Receives Data Review. Motion sent to police oversight. Second by Council Member Wyatt, and this is asking for
 To review the police stops that we have, that the police are supposed to record information when they stop a citizen. We haven't seen, I don't think, that data in its fullness. We want to get that data. We know that there was some questions that have been raised about this data not being collected, so we just want to get it and send it over police oversight.
 Item number 69, codification and rent funds policy. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 70, revision to appointments to the Citizens Advisory Commission or reapportionment. Motion to adopt items 70 through 72.
 70, 71, 72. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 73, waive fees for BPL. Excuse me, can I speak on 72? Absolutely. Excuse me. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This resolution creates the police or the community police advisory board
 which will continue to do the work that previous advisory board had done. It includes structural outline that will make for a permanent and sustainable advisory body to the common council. It will consist of 11 members that includes at least one member from the following backgrounds. And I think this is important. Mental health, legal, personal, restorative justice, criminal justice.
 The following members will be appointed by the Common Council. Initial members will be appointed by the Common Council, and any future members would come to the Common Council to be confirmed by this body. The application process begins March 23rd through April 6th. Applications can be submitted. Those that are online, interested in serving, applications will be submitted via email
 Google form on council Facebook page by email, councilstaffatbuffalo.gov, physical submission to the city clerk's office. You must be a Buffalo residents 18 and over to apply.
 We're looking to continuing the good work that this body to provide them a voice, and I think that's very important on policing, especially in these times to provide our community with the voice with regards to policing with the Buffalo Police Department. I want to thank all of the previous board members for the hard work that they've done in providing.
 ideas that have been part of the dialogue that we've had here on the Common Council and many of the changes and reforms that have been implemented by the Common Council and by the Buffalo Police Department. So I want to thank the council for their support on creation of this advisory board. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair.
 Thank you. Council member for your letter. Thank you, I apologize. I should have mentioned this before. I was just wondering if the window could be extended a little bit longer than to April 6th, because I know we're mentioning, or you mentioned having the window for people to apply from March 23rd to April 6th, if it could just be a little longer than that, because if we're approving it today, I think just to get the word out to people, it might be beneficial to get more applicants if it's a little bit longer, just.
 I don't mind extending it. We can extend it by one week from that date, if that's fine. Sure. All right, so that'll be amended to extend that for one week. Can I give you a second? Yes. All right, next item. Item number 73, weight fees for BPO Concert and Casanova Park.
 Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temp, Stanley. Item number 76, Trailblazing Sign in honor of Samuel Bradford. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 77, transfer of funds bridge management program. Motion to send the finance item 77 and 78. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 79, weigh special event fees for University United Festival. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Announcements of committee meetings. The follow-up meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th floor, City Hall, Buffalo, New York. Meetings may be attended virtual as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalomy.gov.
 for more information on how to attend virtually. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service is Tuesday, March 29, 2022 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance following Civil Service is Tuesday, March 29, 2022 at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, March 29, 2022 at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, March 29, 2022 at 2 p.m.
 Special committees committee on education is Tuesday, March 29 2022 at 11am. All right, Councilmember Scott. Yeah, I'm sorry, can we revisit item number nine I forgot to go back to that. What was the motion on that. It was to adopt to adopt it for the reasons I stated just I didn't quite understand the four versus the five and also the fact that that item previous item also had five people on some of the committee still, I just like to be recorded the negative. Yeah, you got it.
 All right, any announcements, council members? Council member Rasheed Ncy. Thank you, Mr. President. Just wanna announce to the residents of the city of Buffalo, the greetings and conversation with our new police commissioner, Grimalia, tomorrow at 5.30 from 5.37 at the Olmsted School. It's an opportunity for you to hear about his plans for the city and our policing, as well as you to ask questions. This is an opportunity to provide light, not dark,
 And so we're hoping that people come open-minded about the discussion conversation and how we conduct police reform working with the commissioner. Thank you. Thank you. Any other announcements? All right, hearing no other announcements. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by council member Mitchell P. Nowakowski.