Call. Councilmember Farrelletto. Councilmember Fontana. Present. Councilmember Franzen. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. Aki. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Warren. Present. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. Thank you, Common Council President. Bishop, come join me. Many of you know Bishop Tommy Reed, pastor at Full Gospel Technical for over 50 years. We were just talking with Mr. Scanlon about when he started at the church in South Buffalo all those years ago before it headed out to Horseshoe Park. This is a special treat for both the Council President and for me. Paul says it well. He said that we have... lots of teachers but the father. I think for the council president and for me, Bishop isn't just a teacher but a friend, a mentor, and a father to the region. So I've asked him to pray a prayer of blessing today as we open our session in prayer. Excuse me for not having a tie on the council chambers, but I didn't come prepared to do this. Let's pray. Almighty God, I pray for wisdom today as we lead this city from this beautiful home of our city government. I thank you for these leaders that stand before me today that you have chosen. I pray that you'll give each of them wisdom as they give guidance to this great city. Today, once again, we face decision. Give us grace that as we submit to the will of the person beside us, give us abundant mercy to yield to the opinion of another person. Bless my friend, Brother Darius, as he leads this wonderful group of city leaders. I pray the blessing of God upon all this room. that you might impart wisdom to all of us who leave. We pause for a moment as a fellow believer to pray for Bishop Malone and the leaders of the Catholic Church during this very difficult time in their history. Like all of us, he needs wisdom and guidance of our Lord as he walks through these difficult times with his people. Now may the Lord bless you and keep you and make his face to shine upon you and give you his peace. May peace reign in this room as all of us submit to your will as we govern the city. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Bishop. And Bishop also performed my marriage, so I should be in good shape now. Council Member's Memorandum, Council Member Wingo, Council Member Golombak. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to lift up the name Roland W. Johnson. He passed away last week, last year. Roland Johnson was a nationally known financial planner, accountant, TPA, who helped a lot of people with their finances. And he also had a loving, loving family, which I had the pleasure to play with his son. Not to play games, but he was an accomplished musician. And his son has moved away, but he does leave his son, Cheyenne Johnson. Ashley Johnson the two children and then his wife Kim Johnson as well would like the family to know that they are in our thoughts and in our prayers there's anything we could do here in the master district please let us know Thank You mr. chair Thank You sir councilmember the lumber Thank you Mr. President. Shirley Rickner passed away. That was the grandmother of Tina Calvaneso that worked in my office and has a civil service position in the city right now. Our neighborhood, Riverside neighborhood, lost a real luminary over the past week and a half. Irene Gardner, if you're ever on uh... balkan street uh... the balkan street exit there's a bridge that connects riverside park to the waterfront uh... irene gardner was a woman that was responsible literally single-handedly for that bridge in the seventies she was fighting against new york state since the nineteen fifties when they took away our waterfront in riverside in black rock and this is gardener fought and fought and fought and they never gave us back our waterfront but they gave us a bridge and that bridge is actually it's got a number after it but it's officially named the irene k gardner bridge so she's going to be very very sorely missed she was an activist i remember growing up in the neighborhood she was uh... sort of everybody's mom and grandma and uh... she's going to be very very sorely missed by her family and friends The neighborhood lost Mary Conrad, that was the mother of Ron Conrad, former Buffalo police officer, canine officer. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends as well. Loretta Hurey passed away, former hairdresser in the neighborhood, very, very well known among many people. Did seem like half of the women's hair in Riverside at one point or another. And last but certainly not least, Russell Kayser passed away. That was the father of my friend Lisa, who's a neighbor of mine. Russell is going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends as well. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts and prayers the memory of and family of Marion Hines. Mrs. Hines was the grandmother of my Chief of Staff Peggy Shea and the mother of Buffalo Fire Department Battalion Chief James Hines and former Buffalo Fire Department Local 282 Union President Tony Hines. Mrs. Hines was a woman who believed deeply in her faith and her family. She was a member of the St. Ambrose Parish for 60-some years and was a member and a true believer in her family, which consisted of 10 children, 24 grandchildren, and 28 great-grandchildren. So I would ask that we please keep the memory of Mrs. Hinds. I was praying for our House of Representative Louise Slaughter. I didn't have the honor of meeting her, but I remember seeing her on TV being a tireless fighter for the people. Eighty-eight years old. She lived a long life. Unfortunate circumstance for her passing, but we certainly pray for her family and for our state. Thank you. I've written down that we slaughtered when I first was elected at this grand idea that we ought to come up with one problem that everybody on both sides of the aisle should be able to work toward. in Buffalo and Erie County and the state. I thought that one idea should be education. I knew that I couldn't gather them as a council member, so I reached out to Chuck Schumer, Louise Slaughter, and others who were in the federal government. The one who called me back was Louise Slaughter. Louise Slaughter came to Buffalo and she gathered together elected officials around that issue And so she did not care whether you're Republican whether you're a Democrat Whether you're Buffalo or whether you're Rochester. She just wanted what was right for people She will be missed not only from a district of the United States of America finally, we always At this moment, remember the men and the women who have given their life for the freedom of others in this country and across this world. Since our last passing, seven soldiers, United States military, have given their lives to service. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. You may be seated. Today, Councilman, President Pro Temp, Christopher Scanlon will be presenting certificates. Thank you, Council President. As we all know, March is Women's History Month, and we in the South District Council Office thought it would be a very special and unique way to honor the legacy of the trailblazing women of the past by recognizing some of the women who are continuing that legacy of strength and excellence. I think all of us are aware, and in particular my colleagues here in the council are aware of this, that small businesses are vital to the City of Buffalo. Not only do they provide jobs and income for people here, but by working in concert with other small businesses, they provide a particular identity to many neighborhoods throughout the City of Buffalo. And they create pockets of destinations for people to visit, not just from within the city, but from across the region. Many of these small business owners are women in the city of Buffalo. And in addition to owning these businesses, they provide an added benefit. They are role models to the young girls and women in the city of Buffalo, showing them that they can do or be whatever it is they want. And in addition to that, they provide a very distinct perspective in matters of business and community that only a woman can provide. And which leads to much more well-rounded communities, districts, and ultimately a city of Buffalo. To be honest, when we started discussing this idea, we started kicking around names of businesses we knew were owned by women. And I have to be honest, I was quickly ashamed because I didn't realize just how many there were in the South District. You think of each individual one you might know, but you don't really think of the totality of it. And it kind of hits you when you start to think that we discovered there were more than 25 women-owned businesses in the South District. A district which I think is traditionally viewed as more residential than a strong business district, but these women we have here today are creating a tremendous business district in South Buffalo. So we have 20 business owners here today to be recognized, which they should be, for serving as the role models to the young women of the city of Buffalo and showing them that your gender has absolutely nothing to do with how successful you are in life or how happy you are, but rather the commitment to your craft does. So I want to introduce each and every one of them and come down and provide them with a certificate and a small gift on behalf of the Buffalo Common Council to thank you for your commitment to and your investment in the city of Buffalo and to wish you nothing but success in the years to come. It's not that I don't know all your names, but the certificates are in a certain order, so I have to get it in a certain order. I will get in trouble when I get back to the office. Let's start with Buffalo Collected, which is owned by Jill Canan and Colleen Coyle. Next we have Mary Goodspeed of Charlie's Boneyard. Next we have Tara Steins on behalf of Lisa Fusino of Doss of Properties. Yes. Next we have April Spencer of design, floral design, April Spencer. Next we have Mary Campanelli of Hair Designs by Mary. Norman of Kitty Corner. Kathy Cunningham of Cupcakes. Next we have Lori Magure of Lori's Gifts and Treasures. Next we have Nancy McKay of McKay's Clothing. Now we have Anna Hartog and Maggie Mulvaney of Park Edge Candy. Next we have Jill McMahon of Queen City Cycling. Next we have Eleanor Gilson of South Buffalo Dance Academy. Next we have Laura Lawless of the South Buffalo School of Music. Next we have Teresita Ramos of Teresita Sunlight Room. Finally we have Tracy McCormick of Tracy's Retreat. A handful of business owners were unable to make it today, so I did want to recognize them as well. There's Heidi Cerrone of Empire Comics, Shannon Gangloff and Aaron Kasperk of Imagination Station, Kelly DiGiuseppe of Poet Candy, Karen Sorrentino of Leo's Pizza, Mary Hennigan of the Tara Gift Shop, and Mary Claire Sombra of New Studio, which I did fail to mention that Colleen is also part owner of. So how about a round of applause for them as well. And then I would be remiss if I didn't mention the two amazing women in my office, Peggy Shea and Rachel Reed, who put this together today. The only woman he did not mention was his wife. I want to mention Miss Scanlon, who I had dinner with the other night. He was there, though. Yes, he was there. Good job, Councilmember. You have everything in your district. You can go on a retreat, get a sunroom, go dance. I was writing them all down. If you don't dance, you can cycle, and if you cycle, you can go get your clothing, and if you mess up your hair cycling, you can get your hair done, and then your husband can buy you flowers as you get off of your boat, and you get the candy and cupcakes. Congratulations. And you all don't have to stay unless you just really want to stay. Council President. We'll give you a second to exit. Thank you. Council members? And if any of the council members did want to stop by after the meeting, everyone is gathering in room 1417. Oh, so that means we're going to move quick. Will all that be there? Will cupcakes be there? Some. I want cupcakes and all that. 14, right after? While they're exiting quietly, we're just going to keep going. On a motion by Ms. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 6th. 2018 are approved gentlemen late files are before you are there any objections to the late files hearing no objections to any of the late files that are before you does not take away your right when that item comes before you to object if need be so I just want to make sure I got all the late trials what were the last late though was there late file today what number can we pause just one All righty. From the top. From the top. Item 1, submission of monthly report. Motion to receive and file. Sent in by Council Member Wingo. Item 2, negative declaration, 310 Jersey. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember White. Item 3, negative declaration, 240-260 Lakefront Boulevard. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Fontan. Item 4, landmark application, 76 Soldiers Place. Motion to send the legislation to Item 4, 4 and 5. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item 6, report of sale, 399 Benzinger. Motion to approve items 6 through 9. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 10, Report of Sale 213, Northampton. Mr. Chairman, there is a motion to recuse Council President from voting on this item. MOVED BY COUNCILMEMBER FRONTANA, SECONDED BY COUNCILMEMBER SCANNELL. MOTION IS NOW TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE, SECONDED BY COUNCILMEMBER WYATT. ITEM 11, REPORT OF SALE 455 EAST UTAGUN. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECONDED BY COUNCILMEMBER FIOLO. ITEM 12, FORMER SCHOOL 26 LDA SENATE KABABKOT COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION. REFERRED TO LOVEJOY COUNCILMEMBER. BE HAPPY TO. I THINK WE HAVE TO SEND THIS TO THE COMMITTEE THAT BEAT. Probably community development, wherever the public hearing is going to be. So do you know where the public hearing will be next week? Erin Gordon, Assistant Corporation Counsel. I don't think a public hearing has been set for this one as yet. I can't say for sure. So maybe you could send it to committee. You want to send it to community development, Jerry, or CD? It would be a pleasure. You'd do a hearing in CD? I'm fine with that. It is community development, so I'm fine with that. So we send it to CD. This is essentially a private... PRIVATELY FUNDED COMMUNITY CENTERS BEING BUILT IN THE SENATE-KABABCOCK NEIGHBORHOOD. THE CITY OF BUFFALO RECENTLY WITH YOUR HELP AS COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE MAYOR WE VOTED TO DEMOLISH THE OLD SCHOOL. THE SITE'S CLEAR. There is funding in place now to build a $2.3 million community center in the neighborhood that will also renovate the park, Mullen Playground. So it's just an exciting time for the Seneca-Babcock community to finally get their new community center. All right. It's exciting. So CD, if you could. All right. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilman Fontana. Thank you. 113, certificate of necessity, capital budget amendment. Motion to receive and file items 13 and 14. Second by President Fritz. Thank you. Item 15, letter to management fiscal year ending June 30th, 2017. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 16, appoint senior auditor. Motion to send to CD. Civil service. Civil service. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 17, concerns trending graduation rates. Motion to send to the education committee. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item 18, support Simonelli Project 240-260 Lakefront. Motion to send to CD items 18 through 20. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 21, interim 52 list of delinquent taxes, user fees, and sewer rent. Motion to receive and file items 21 through 24. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 25, changing contract, striping of lane lines. motion to approve items 25 through China 38 38 by council member fine Santa I'm 39 a point sorry to the cost how's my wife we go back to number 22 motion to revisit item 22 second by council member feel of before okay just want to know can we I know this is a response to finance the request is to send a finance I don't have a problem with it motion to send to finance all right motion to rescind the motion of the receiving file second by councilmember Wyatt the new motion is in the finance second by councilmember Wyatt thank you next item all right so motion is revisit item number 24 My council member Rivera second revisit item 24 by councilmember the Lumbeck this item is in force. What's what what's needed? motions to receive a public way the 45-day waiting period Motion to waive 45-day waiting period so the motion stands and we'll add to it to waive the 45-day motion Waiting period second by councilmember Thank you. I'm 39 a point bridge operations engineer deferred to Lovejoy District Councilmember, item 49. 39. 39. Oh, 39. I'm sorry. Yeah, you really, you almost had, you almost had the adjournment. Skip by 10. Motion to send the civil service items 39 through 41. 42. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 43, acceptance of donation brings armor car. Motion to approve. What are we doing with an armor car? Second by Councilmember Fairlittle. Councilmember Fontana? That is the question. What are we going to do with it? And I wasn't in caucus, so I apologize. Well, we were in Albany. But can we ask that in the Senate's committee? The gentleman who was in caucus, I don't know if we had any explanation on that. No, we don't. Mr. President, I've had communication from BPD. They anticipate using this for SWAT. Oh, for SWAT. Oh, so it's going to be retrofitted? So we don't have to go out and buy it. I'm glad. Is this the commissioner's new take-home car? Hey. I'm just joking. Do you still want to send it to the committee? Because I have no problem. SWAT's fine. Yeah. That's a good use. And it's a good use, and we're not buying, purchasing a vehicle. It's an armored truck. So motion stands. I'm fine. Motion stands. Thank you. You're welcome, sir. Appoint Fire Lieutenant. Motion to send the Civil Service items 44, 45, and 46. Second by Councilmember White. Item 47, Food Store License 187, Esser. Motion to approve with condition. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 48, Food Store License 302, Grant Street. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Item 49, Food Store License 90, Lisbon. Refer to University District Councilmember. Committee. Second by Councilmember White. Item 49, Food Store License 90, Lisbon. Refer to University District Councilmember. Committee. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 49, Food Store License 90, Lisbon. Refer to University District Councilmember. Committee. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Committee. Second by Councilmember W Second by Councilmember, if the movement is to send to committee, second by Councilmember Wise. Item 50, food store license 1560 South Park. Motion to approve with conditions that it sunsets after one year. All right. That have been supplied by the district councilmember, second by Councilmember Stanton. item 51 food store license 721 Tonawanda motion to approve items 51 and 52 second by councilmember Golombi item 53 food store license 442 William motion to send to legend second by councilman Ferenczit item 54 lodging house license Buffalo Grand Hotel motion to approve by councilman Ferenczit item 55 mobile food truck motion to send the legislation item 55 through 57 second by councilmember white I'm 58 a point building inspector motion to send the civil service items 58 through 60 and my councilmember I'm Tami I'm 61 Western New York Public Broadcasting Association motion to approve my councilman I'm 62 a point director of administration and finance motion to send the civil service second by councilman I'm 63 permission to accept donation motion to approve items 63 and 64 and 64. Second by Council Member Glumbeck. All right, thank you. I thought I missed the item. Next item. Item 65, appoint Deputy Commissioner of Community Services. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member White. Item 66, liquor license applications. Thank you. motion to receive a file item 66 through 68 second by councilmember Golombi item 69 a point legislative assistant motion to adopt item 69 and 70 second by councilmember Golombi I'm 71 notice of apartment seasonal motion to receive and file second by councilman Wyatt I'm 72 notice of primus temporary provisional permanent motion to send the civil service and my councilmember Wyatt miscellaneous items item 73 Crescent Village request to park both sides in Stanislaus between Sweet and Mills motion to send the CD and Public Works second by council member Wingo item 74 central staff task list motion to receive it by item 74 through 76 second by council member fear a little item 77 installation parking meters at canal side motion to send the CD Public Works and parking so my councilman front in item 78 additional info planned unit development 98 Maurice 85 Lee 229 elk and 427 out motion to send legislation second by council member the Lombok 79 parents request public hearing regarding city honors motion to send to education second by councilman forensic and lady request placement of a shadow proof convex parking meter motion to send the CD in parking second by councilman Wingo I made it one three sixty three three eighty three Hopkins Motion to adopt items 81 through 86 sitting by council member Fontana petitions item 87 Special use permit 82 Harrison motion to send to legislation and city planning board items 87 through 94 second by council member Fontana committees civil service item 1 a point assistant filtration plant operator Motion to approve items number one, two, and three. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item four, notice of apartments temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive in five. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Finance Committee, item five, budget and personnel amendment, permits and inspections. Do we know what position this one is? Is this for the lead or is this something different? Well, what, the five? Yeah, the appointment number five. I have no idea. Do you know which one it is? Yeah. Okay, good. Okay, this one was the one we talked about in committee, so motion to approve. Okay. motion to approve this was the switch so that the two inspectors could stay on and then later on they're gonna be switched back okay so this to approve approve second by councilmember Wyatt under six budget and personnel amendment budget and management this came out of committee without recommendation I'm gonna be voting in the negative on the item so if you like to go to the majority leader for a motion that's no problem for me not one second by council member Wyatt I'm in the negative And please record Councilmember Fontana in the negative. Thank you, sir. Community Development Committee, Item 7, Report of Sale, 99 Rodney. Motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Majority Leader Revere. Legislation Committee, Item 8, appoint Chief Information Officer. Uh, 8, Mr. President, I intend to vote in the negative, so perhaps the Majority Leader could make the motion? Yes, sir. Oh, I'm sorry. No, this is going back. This is going back to committee. I apologize. Oh, I'm sorry. And I really apologize to you. I didn't get that information to you. So the Corporation Council wants to be able to come before the full... Before that committee. I didn't see him here today, so I figured... It was all in the bag. That's totally my fault. He came to see me earlier, and I tried to make the rounds, but I got tied up. And so I'm grateful for that. He'll come. It'll then be public because I think that a lot of what needed to be known just needs to be known in public. Absolutely. I met with him for about an hour, but I still had some questions. And I didn't see him here today. And I apologize. So what we'll do is we'll table the item. YOU WANT TO RECOMMIT IT? YEAH, RECOMMIT. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WINGLE. THANK YOU. AND AGAIN, HE DID COME BY EARLIER. SO I'LL SAY THIS. I DON'T MIND SAYING IT ON THE RECORD. WE GOT TIED UP BECAUSE IT WAS A ROLL OF PAPER ROLLING ON MY FLOOR AND WE THOUGHT A MOUSE WAS IN IT. SO BY THE TIME THEY CAME UP FROM DOWNSTAIRS AND CAUGHT THE MOUSE, IT WAS ALMOST TIME TO COME DOWN. THERE WAS NO MOUSE IN IT. THE AIR UNDERNEATH THE DOOR WAS MOVING. I'M NOT SURE IF YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THE MOUSE. I So that's why I didn't get to you. So you didn't have to jump up on your chair. So we'll be sending that back, and then he will come and then explain in public. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 9, appointment to the Preservation Board. Number 9, motion to approve. All right. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 10, food store license 2289 Fillmore. 10 and 11 are for the no objections. Motion to approve. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FONTANA. ITEM 12, ADOPTIVE REUSE PERMIT 1296 DELAWARE. 12 ORIGINALLY CAME WITHOUT RECOMMENDATION. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GOLUMBEC. ITEM 13, ZONING MAP AMENDMENT, PORTION OF LAND B, 363 AND 383 HOPKINS. 13, MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY THE MAJORITY LEADER. item 14 special use permit 1127 hurdle motion to approve second by the majority leader on 15 special use 1488 hurdle I defer to the district councilmember for the purposes of a motion that word councilmember yeah in addition to the hearing in addition to the conditions that were placed on by the Planning Board we'd also like to add a one-year sunset on those conditions and then approve the item all right so there was a hearing On the 13th. All right. With those comments from the district council member for the record, so that's to approve? Yes. All right. With the comments added in those pieces? Yes. Second by council member Scala. Item 16, zoning map amendment 700 military. Number 16 through 18, motion to approve. second by majority leader under 19 Cold War veteran exemption 19 motion to receive and file so my council member wing oh I'm 20 planned unit development 229 elk and 83 Lee Street 20 is recommit and we have the public hearing scheduled for April 3rd 2018 and 1230 second by councilmember white item 21 rental registration fee increase motion to receive and file items 21 and 22 second by councilmember Columbia resolution all right I'm just let me get through one section then I'll come back to do and maybe that's what we probably need to kind of set of the policy if we got a revisit let's get through the agenda then do all the revisits because I'll keep stopping and then It's kind of the mess up we're at. So we'll come back to that. Is that okay, Councilman Fontana? All right. Next item. Resolutions. Item 95, bond resolution, Shoshone Pool Restoration. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilman Fontana. 96, capital budget amendment. Motion to approve. Item 96 and 97. Second by Councilman Franza. Item 98, set public hearing disposition of real property, 240 and 260 Lakefront Boulevard. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember... Can we pause one second on that date? We put this on the 17th, right? I just want to make sure it's the right date and it's not the council meeting. So we have this on the 17th? Oh, I'm looking at the wrong calendar. What day? Is that a council day? We settled that matter of whether it had to be in a council meeting? Because if we settled that matter of whether it had to be in a council meeting or whether it could be in a committee meeting, this is a late front. I got the date. The question is, is it a council meeting or so it could be at any meeting? What is it? Is the 17th? April 17th is a Monday. No, that's 2017 is a Monday. You got the wrong calendar. We don't have to have it in full council. April 17th is a Monday. So gentlemen, before we vote on this, I just want to have a discussion with you because this is going to be a big meeting. And we at first were told that it had to be at a council meeting. We have since found out it does not. So it is my suggestion that we don't start having these public hearings at council meetings, but that we have it in the committee meeting. Is that...and I'm seeing heads. Go ahead. So give me the committee meeting BEFORE IT, THE ONE BEFORE IT, APRIL 10TH. IS EVERYBODY OKAY WITH THAT? THANK YOU VERY MUCH. SO I WANT TO AMEND WHAT IS IN FRONT OF US AND THE RESOLVE TO DIRECT THE CITY COUNCIL TO PUBLISH THE NOTICE ATTACHED HERE TO AND MARK NOTICE OF HEARING IN THE BUFFALO NEWS. ALL RIGHT. SO LET ME GO TO TWO. I'M SORRY. WE'LL CONDUCT A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE STATED on the matter stated in said notice of hearing at 2 p.m in the council chambers on what day the 10th day of april 2018 so we want to make sure that's out to public so lakefront knows but i think it's better to do it in the committee than in full council So that'll be the 10th of April for the public hearing for the lakefront property that is before this council. Thank you. And that was, did I get a, who made the motion? Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Thank you for your indulgence. Next item. Item 99, permanent root belt residential parking area. Motion to approve items 99 through 101. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 102, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt items 102 through 104. All right, second by Councilmember Franczak. Item 105, budget and personnel amendment fire. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item 106. Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fontana. And we're revisiting item number 12 in the regular agenda. Are you okay? All right. Item number 12, 82 Harrison, former school, number 26, LDA. items reopen all right we originally sent this to CD but upon further review this is the LDA the land is land land the LDA so we're going to be using that separately from the other item which essentially plans use so the disposition act is different than the land use so we could approve the disposition act before we do the land you all right So, do you want the motion to stand? No, we'll now motion, instead of sending the CD, we'll now motion to approve. All right, so we want to rescind. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Motion is now to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Any other items of course? Council Member of the Committee meetings. Thank you. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, March 27th, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, March 27th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, March 27th, 2 p.m. Special committees, Committee on Education, Friday, March 23rd, 2 p.m. Committee on Public Police Oversight, March 27th, 11 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, April 3rd, 12.30 p.m. Council Members, any announcements for your districts? Yes. Just want to remind the public, championship game for Stop the Madness basketball tournament is Saturday, March 24th at Waterfront School, 95 North 4th Street, 10 a.m. registration. And the games begin at 11 a.m. with the Ellicott University, Lovejoy, and Mastin districts. Anything else council members council member wingo mighty maston district also March the 31st of this month we will be hosting the Easter egg hunt for the residents of Maston district which is sponsored in part by the vote of course Maston district the Mount Olive Church, the Senator Tim Kennedy, and the Assemblymember Crystal Peoples-Stokes have all come together to ensure that we all have a great time celebrating Easter with an egg hunt, candy, games, parties, and etc. etc. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Fontana, yet another year has gone by that Mr. Wingo and I have made these announcements. It goes by so quick lately, it's just not funny, but March 31st. at noon at Hennepin Park Community Center. The Lovejoy District is going to be hosting once again the Easter egg hunt for the kids. And my wife, Dolores, Mike Cacciatore, and Stephanie Cacciatore are all hosting the event this year with members of the neighborhood. So we're all coming together. We're going to have a good time. So hop on over to Hennepin at noon on the 31st. All right. Councilman Golombet. And if you can't make it to Hennepin at Riverside Park, the Club 49ers is doing their annual... Easter egg hunt at the same time at 12 noon at Riverside Park on Holy Saturday. I thought this was your beer announcement. I really did. This isn't the time for the beer. This is Easter. No beer and Easter, just Easter eggs. Anything else, council members? All right. Oh, council member Frank, I knew you couldn't let this moment go. Now, this meeting, is this the last one before Easter, or do we have one more? Yes. Oh, it is. Well, thanks. I'm glad I woke up to that. Big Dingus Day parade on the east side of Buffalo at 5 p.m. on Dingus Day, the Monday after Easter. And so be there. We get bigger and bigger every year. and I remember the first year I went to the old First Ward Parade which originally started in 1912. They just had a few units and they grew so big so a nice neighborhood feel to it and this parade, same thing. They started with like three units and a you know, a guy walking from the All Might gas station holding the flag. And now it's got dozens and dozens of units and thousands of people and so hope for nice weather and see you on Dinkus Day at 5 o'clock at the parade. Thank you. Alright and Broadway Market is brimming, right? Broadway Market is up and running. We did the ribbon cutting for the Easter season last Thursday and I've been there every day and there's been just tremendous vendors and music every day and lots of sites and colors and good good food yeah good i'll see you there all right anything else councilmember revere motion to adjourn second by councilman fontana we adjourned and now you can go