Are we standing for the pledge or are we, I don't know if we're standing for the pledge or not. Yeah, you can. Countdown. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Present.
 I key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Thank you. As we all, as we prepare to stand for the pledge, I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, liberty and justice for all. We are joined on the call by our Council Chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner, for a few short words. Reverend Warner, we cannot hear you. Unmute. There we go. Okay? Yes, sir. So it seems especially appropriate to use
 A couple of verses from Ecclesiastes 3 verses 4 and 5, a scripture that is common in many of our traditions, and it discusses about the time for everything, a time to weep, a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance, a time to scatter stones, a time to gather them, a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing. It seems with social distancing that this is a time to refrain from embracing.
 And although it talks about times of laughter and dance, it seems like those are far from us at this point. But I do want to suggest to all of us how grateful we are, Consul President, that you're able to join us today, given the battle you and your son Craig and others that we know have been in. And so we are thankful that God has touched you and that you are.
 a strong voice for all of those that are going through trials and testings in this season. So thank you, sir. At the same point, our community is going through weeping and mourning
 Many of you may know that the young 44 year old woman who died was on the worship team at Midtown Bible Church. And how to even do the funeral now is a challenge. I was on the phone with a pastor, a friend of ours, yesterday.
 Bishop Troy Bronner Elam lost a key person to the virus. These aren't just eight people. They're eight people who represent such an extended network of hurt and, as the scripture says, weeping and mourning. So I want to, as we pray, pray for protection, but also pray comfort on those that can't
 that can't even do or give a traditional funeral because of all the restrictions that are among us today. Let's pray. Father, join the meeting. Thank you for the writing of Ecclesiastes, and Lord, it's used in so many different contexts. Today, specifically, we apply it to our city, our region, these council members, and the session we're about to enter. Lord, you know that for Deb and me,
 The virus is up close and personal. It has touched people very closely connected to us. I'm sure the same is true for many of the council members today. These aren't just names or numbers, they're people. And Lord, some that are having to come into a chapter none of them could have imagined.
 So Father, even as social distancing prohibits the kind of gathering of comfort that we often give to one another, we ask that you and your supreme way would be able to comfort those who mourn, comfort those who weep. At the same point, Lord, we celebrate Consul President with us and continued healing for him, for Pastor Craig, his precious son, the same, and for those around the city, the region, the nation, and the world who are experiencing this on an up-close daily basis.
 basis. Father, would you be close to them? We pray even now protection, and we pray for people that are working on cures, vaccines, ways to slow this down, that the creativity of the living God will come alongside them in helping them to do it at an accelerated pace.
 And Father, now as decisions are made, I pray that you'd give wisdom to the council to gather in a way we've never thought we'd have to, remotely, via laptops and cell phones. Would you superintend this meeting from distancing from one another, but very close to you, I ask in your precious son's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Council members, are there any memorials at this time we'll hear? Yes, Council President.
 Yes, Councilmember Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. At each of our meetings, you rightfully so acknowledge any servicemen or women we may have lost since our previous meeting. Today, I'd like to acknowledge the passing of a veteran of the armed services who's left us far too soon. Justin Klesik, a South Buffalo resident whom I've known since adolescence, passed away last week at the young age of 39.
 and he was a very proud member of our United States Marine Corps. Justin graduated from St. Ambrose School, Bishop Tymon High School, and attended Allegheny College on a golf scholarship. He served this nation during occupations in both Iraq and Afghanistan, in addition to being stationed throughout Asia.
 His time in the military was something he didn't openly or overtly discuss, but everyone that was familiar with Justin knew exactly how proud he was of the time he served. And not just of serving his country, but in particular, the time he served with his fellow servicemen and women. And if there is a love that you can have for people more than you do for your family, Justin definitely felt that for his fellow service members.
 Anyone who came in contact with Justin was immediately comfortable letting their guard down because of his larger-than-life smile and personality to match. He immediately made you feel at home with him and did not hesitate to use little pet names as terms of endearment. He was never afraid to tell you just how much he cared for you, ending most conversations with an, I love you, bro. It was his ability to care for others and genuinely be interested in what was taking place in their life that served him best in every aspect of his life.
 whether it was son, brother, uncle, nephew, cousin, friend, colleague, or fellow serviceman. It was the same outgoing, comforting personality that made his newest endeavor in the restaurant business a natural fit. Anyone who entered one of the establishments that Justin ran immediately felt like a regular, and they were sure to come back because of him.
 Justin is going to be sorely, sorely missed by his family, an extensive group of friends, and his personality and his service to this country will not be forgotten. I love you, bro. Wow, really heartfelt. Thanks. Thank you, Councilmember. Obviously that was a friend.
 Council members, any other memorials? I do, Mr. President. Council member Golombek. Thank you. Former Riverside resident Mike Cooney, young man my age, passed away. He had lived in a group home ever since his mom and dad had passed away.
 very friendly young man. I would see him in the neighborhood periodically and I'm so glad that I ran into him. A few weeks ago I was at Kenmore Lanes to pick something up from someone and I happened to run into him. Also Henry Heide passed away, the husband of Ann Heide who's a former City of Buffalo employee.
 Eleanor Mastolinsky, one of my seniors from Assumption Roman Catholic Church. Gordy Kirker, Riverside resident, passed away. You know, wonderful guy, great anecdote about him. He would see me every year at the All Saints Lawn Fete.
 And he would say, and I always took this as a great compliment. He'd say, I don't know if it's an election year because Golombek's here. He's here every year, not every four years or every two years or whatever. So Gordy's going to be very sorely missed by his family and friends. And I can't remember if we had...
 mentioned, but Sophie Baye, Daniela's mom passed away. I've known Sophie for gosh 20-25 years from Polish-American organizations and community groups. I worked with her on a few things with the Army Corps of Engineers when she worked there. All of these people will be very very sorely missed by their families and their friends. Council President Kautz, Councilmember Wyatt.
 I just want to, my prayers go out to the family of Russell McLeod. He was one of the latest coronavirus victims. Pastor Brown did a fantastic job acknowledging him and the work that he did in his church.
 and my family knows him and my prayers goes out to his family. It's just an unfortunate situation when you pass and you can't have your loved ones by your side. So my prayers are with all those victims who have passed a coronavirus that kind of were left lonely without having their loved ones around them. God bless. Thank you, Councilmember. Anyone else?
 And one of the lists, I do have a list here. Councilmember Scanlon has already spoken on our soldier and praying for all of these families, but also on there was Russell McLeod, who, according to the notes, was a Buffalo firefighter. I knew Russell.
 I knew how much he loved his church Elam fellowship. He loved Elam. And he was also an Ellicott District County committeeman. And so, you know, he was active in all areas. Michael Cooney, Deborah Banks, Betty Wolfram.
 Sophie Baj, Gordon Kirker, Henry Hyde, Eleanor Mastylinski. And then there was a young lady, I think that was already acknowledged, Lulu Henderson. I think you brought her up, the chaplain.
 And so for all of those, you know, and Chris, you're right, I usually do talk about the servicemen. Today, we're praying and remembering those whose families may be in hospitals right now, those who have family members at home and are quarantined, those who will have family members.
 that we as a city we're a city of good neighbors and we we dedicate this entire council meeting the first of its history because we know history is being made and we'll come out of this better we dedicate this meeting to all of those as we pause for a moment of silence before beginning our formal meeting council president
 Yes. Chaplain, again, just one other thing that I neglected because I'm a little offset just by all this. For first responders, the prayer that I think we need to have for those on the front lines in hospitals and doctors' offices, doctors, nurses, the number of policemen who've been diagnosed, the number of fire people that have been diagnosed, all those that are on the front lines, EMTs and
 and so many, I believe that those need to be included also as frontline warriors in this battle in our region, that masks be there and all kinds of protective equipment needs to be part of our proactive prayer for those that are putting lives at risk.
 Thank you so much. I see a lot of numbers coming on. I want to be very clear that this is a council meeting. This is not a committee meeting. The persons who will be heard during this council meeting are the council members. And so we ask that you please respect the process of the council. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 17, 2020, are approved.
 Council members, the late fouls are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late fouls that are before you at this time?
 Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the entire agenda before us. For the public, part of what you will hear today is when there is an approval of an item, we will have a roll call vote. And the reason for that is because according to the governor's executive office, these meetings must be transcribed. And so that we have accuracy in our transcriptions,
 There will be some meet some items that will go through a roll call vote from the top. Council President, Council Member Wyatt is trying to grab your attention here. All right. I can't see the council members when the full screen is up with the agenda. Thank you, Council Member Wyatt.
 Councilmember Wyatt. Okay. Yes. No, I have a I want to object to the late file because it doesn't seem like it was split out as you stated and my screen just went blank when you made the mention but the items weren't split out it didn't seem like.
 So I'll take a look at the item, but my conversation today with Mr. Mahaffey was that it's only one item coming. There is not, the other one has been taken off of the table at this point. And it's been taken off. Okay. You okay? As long as it's taken off, I'm fine with it then. It has. It has, sir. And thank you.
 All right. So again, for the record, stating that there are no objections to the late file, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Thank you. From the top. Council President, can we take item 2024 out of resolutions out of order? Yes, we can, Council Member. And before we do that, this is just back to staff. When you go to full screen, you're either going to have to move this
 full screen agenda to the side, but I can in no way see all of the council members, so that if they need my attention, I cannot see it. So if you're able to readjust the screen. Item number 24, second by Councilmember Wyatt, that item is before us. Item number 24, discharge item 20-402 from Finance. Motion to receive and file the discharge. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 From the top? Item number 23 is a discharge that needs to come out first, too. So item 23, discharge item 20-371 from finance. That would be the move of the majority leader to ask for that discharge? Motion to discharge. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 23, discharge item 20-371 from finance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 I'm going to pause, please, one more time. Again, the full screen agenda is not serving us well, because thank you very much. Then if you can do the agenda on the side, that would serve us a little better. If you can't, if you bring it up quickly, just take it back down so that I'm able to see the council members. Next item. Item number 1, declaration of state of emergency. Can I see the agenda? It's not on my screen.
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 2, permission to hire Elvers Landscape. Motion to approve. Can we approve 2, 3, and 4, Majority Leader? We can approve. Because we have to do a roll call. 2, 3, and 4. Second by Council Member Wingo. Roll call, please. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Items two, three, and four has been approved. All right. Next item. Item number five, approval request to trade weapons. Motion to approve items five, six, seven, eight, and nine.
 Motion to approve five through nine. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Roll call vote, please. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Feraletto. Yes. Council Member Golumbak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Yes.
 Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Items five, six, seven, eight, and nine have been approved. Second. Next item. Item number 10, second hand dealer 2186 Fillmore. Motion to go to motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 11, there is a correction on the name. The item is still correct as filed. The name is Contract Revision for Restoration Society
 And to be clear, just so the public understands what's going on on this one, this is about emergency housing and ensuring that we don't have anyone in the streets in the city of Buffalo as much as possible. I fully support this resolution. We know that it came in as a late file. But during times like this, when we know that it's cold outside, that people need a place to stay,
 This is a very, very important item. So I thank the administration for caring about the people of the city of Buffalo, especially those who will find themselves homeless during this time. What was the motion, Majority Leader? Motion is to approve. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon, roll call. Council Member Bowman. Yes.
 Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Galambek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Number 11 is approved. Next item. Item number 12, Liquor License Notice. Motion to receive and file.
 second by council member freelo. Item number 13 appoint senior legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Second by council member columbet. Item number 14 notices of appointment. Motion to receive and file items 14 and 15. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number 16 2020 list of Lovejoy district food licenses. Motion to approve. Second by council member Bowman roll call. Council member Bowman.
 Yes. Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Golombek? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? If that's what Bowman wants, yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 16 is approved. Next item.
 Item number 17, meeting transcript for March 31st, 2020. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 18, suggested changes to small sale agreement. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 19, 2020 list of university district food licenses. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt, roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Yes.
 council member Farrelletto yes council member Golombak yes council member Nowakowski yes council president Pridgen yes majority leader Rivera yes president pro temp Scanlon yes council member Wingo yes council member Wyatt yes item 19 is approved
 Thank you. Next item. Item number 20, special use 393 Richmond for non-owner occupied. Motion to send to legislation and planning board items 20 and 21. Second by Councilmember Ferraletto. Committees, item number finance. Item number two, request to approve reported cell 489M1.
 Okay, because we already took care of one, correct? Yes, it's received a file, so it remains committed, recommitted. All right. Majority leader? Yes. I'm sorry, not majority leader, finance chair. Finance chair. Hello? Tiana? I have a- Tiana, didn't we receive in file item 23 under resolutions, we have to approve one out of finance? No, he received a file to discharge, so it's basically standing at committee.
 Is that the school bus arm? Correct. Oh, okay, so you're receiving and filing it instead. Okay. You're receiving and filing the discharge, not the item. Not the item. Correct. Which makes the item stays in that committee, so it stays in finance. Okay. So are we on number two still? Correct. Yes. Motion to approve.
 Motion to approve, second by Councilmember Rivera. Councilmember Bowman. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Golumbac. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes.
 Councilmember Wingo, Councilmember Wyatt. Yes. I'm sorry, I had my mute, yes. Councilmember Wingo is present and that's a yes. Before we go to the next item, I think I got a little lost also. So the bus cam went back to committee? Was that what we did earlier? Yes. You received the file to discharge. You didn't adopt the discharge.
 um white is that what you wanted done yes so councilmember white let me just ask you now that we don't have committees we'll be arranging to have a committee meeting so that we can move forward on that or deny it okay well i guess we're waiting on clarification because i know there's some items that are have not been approved as of yet or signed off um so i want to see those items signed off before we move forward because it was so what i would
 It was something about the mayor's ability to use the state of emergency for some special
 So what I want to work on so that the public knows is a way to have public hearings. And so that we won't delay any progress if we need to have a public hearing or certain things we work with corporation council. And that may be in place by Tuesday. Okay, so that if we need to go into committee meetings, we can still do committee meetings
 engage the public in those committee meetings so I want to ensure Commissioner who may be watching that we will not unduly delay making sure that this gets through a committee as soon as possible and any other items that come before this council okay yes who is it
 Councilmember Scanlon. So I just want, the reason I brought it up, so this has changed since yesterday, that's all. That's why. That's what it's, that's why, yeah, and I was a little confused, so I just wanted to make sure we had clarity.
 But if we're gonna send those things, type of things to committee, I just wanna make sure that we are also doing our part to make sure we do have a committee and to make sure that the public can engage in that committee and that we move these things forward. I know that Mr. Helfer, and I believe he's on the line, talked about the timeliness. So we wanna get this done within the next few weeks, done or not done, but at least get it through the process.
 Any other questions, anybody? Next item. Item number 22, Commissioner Deeds, public duties. Motion to adopt items 22, 23, 24, and 25.
 Second by Councilmember Scanlon. We need a clarity. It should be only items that we have left from resolutions is items 22 and 25. Motion to adopt items 22 and 25. Motion stands and the clarification shall be noted for the record. Announcement of committee meetings. All council committee meetings will be postponed until further notice.
 All right. And as I stated a few minutes ago, we'll work all of the rest of this week to figure out what legally can be done to continue our committee meetings and to include the public.
 again to the staff and to my fellow council members thank you for ensuring that the public is able to see the business of the people even though we are able we have to do it from home right now or from wherever you're at so we will work
 to ensure that we are moving forward with committee meetings and we'll continue to update the public and we'll continue to update our colleagues concerning that. Council members, any announcements? Hearing no announcements, majority leader? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn, second by Council Member Golombet. Stand adjourned, thank you, Council Members. Thank you.