Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Aki. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Council Member. Present. Here. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our Council Chaplain will come to introduce our guests for the morning, for this afternoon. Thank you, Council President, on this holy week. in multiple religious traditions, but particularly because of our guest today, the Roman Catholic tradition, Bishop Mike Fisher has agreed to come and be our opening invocator today. He comes to us from away from here, Baltimore and Washington with his roots. but has come and as he's here, I believe as a spiritual leader, as a father to so many spiritually in this region, he has a voice that's important. Whenever you're going through a storm, the voice of a father can bring peace and peace. in the storm. Buffalo's had more than a share of storms in the last 10 or 11 months, and I believe today being able to have a father pray for us in Holy Week is especially significant. Thank you, Chaplain. Again, thank you for the kind invite. It's good to be here with you, particularly as we begin our Holy Week and Passover. I very much am grateful for being here to be able to pray over you and with you. Let us pray. Good and gracious God, ruler of all, the source and summit of human existence, we gather at the start of Holy Week in today's work and deliberations of this common council here in Buffalo to seek your guidance, your wisdom, and your truth. May you continue to protect and bless our Mayor, Mayor Brown, and all of our councilpersons, and those who have been entrusted with the common good of this city and the good people that all of us are called to serve and to lift up. We ask that you enlighten our minds and hearts to realize the true purpose of why we are here, and to be ever mindful of our obligations to seek the greater good of our community, and most especially to create hope and possibility for those whose lives are marked by despair and struggle. Let us resist swift and harsh judgments toward others whose circumstances and experiences have reduced their options frustrated their best intentions for themselves and those they love. In lifting and encouraging those considered least among us, we lift the prospects of us all and forge new pathways, especially for our young people who are asked to create the future we best imagine. Grant us zeal to listen and understand, to speak and to be heard. May compassion, empathy, patience, and kindness define our motives and interactions, and may we never fear the prospects that the insights, ideas, and talents of others may be better suited to prevail than our own. Finally, dear Father, in what we say and in what we do, may we give honor to you, O Lord, who has called us to lead and to serve today. and demonstrate the greatest love that we lay down our lives, our treasure, and all for others. In this we find our purpose and fulfillment, the source of our joy, and reward of our determined and faithful efforts. To you, Lord God, our light and constant guide, all glory and honor belong to you, now and always, forevermore. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Bishop. We appreciate you so much for spending this Holy Week. We know it's a busy week. Thank you, Chaplain, for making sure the Bishop was here and to assist. Council Members, any memoriams? Wow. None this week. We always remember the lives who the persons who have given their lives for the freedom of our country and for the freedom of others all over this world. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of state of meeting held on March 21st, 2023 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda beginning at the top, is that correct, Majority Leader? From the top. Beginning at the top, from the top. Majority Leader and Council President, we have a discharge that needs to be pulled out of order. Item number 81. Motion to take out of order item 81. Second by Council Member Belongbet. Item number 81, discharge items 22-1904 and 23-300 from Legislation Committee. Motion to adapt the discharge. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number one appointments examining Board of Electricians motion to approve items one through four second by councilmember No, Akowsky and number five report is so 1111 lovejoy motion to send the CD say my councilmember Bowman I don't number six report itself 556 and 567 motion to approve item six seven and eight so my counselor for your love I don't ever knife February 2023 cash flow report motion to send finance items nine and ten so my councilmember Wingo I Item number 11, a plan assessor. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 12, notification serial. Motion to receive and file item 12. Second by Council Member Fairlotto. Item number 13, change order for Donato. Motion to approve items 13 through 40. Second by Council Member Joel P. Fairlotto. Item number 41, acceptance of grant funds from DASNY's local community assistance program. Motion to... What item is that? Is that item? Item 41? 41, yes. Motion to approve. Second by Rashid Ncy. Item number 42, contract with the City of Buffalo Empire dismantle emergency demolition for 743 Main Street. Motion to approve. Second by Joseph Golombek Jr. Item number 43, food store license 1245 East Sullivan. Motion to send the legislation items 43 through 47. Second by Brian J. Bowman. item number 48 food store license 260 rhode island motion to approve second by ulysses owingo senior and number 49 new second hand dealer 45 allen aka 497 franklin motion sent to legislation by mitchell p nowakowski item number 50 second hand dylan 795 elmwood i'll defer to the council member from the delaware district motion to approve second by council member white item number 51 permission to enter into agreement with e-service for grants management soft no objections motion to approve second by council member melakowski item number 52 appoint judicial hearing officer motion to send the civil service second by councilman for your letter item number 53 board of ethics minutes motion to receive and file items 53 through 55 second by councilmember Item number 56, appoint public safety dispatcher. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 57, notice of appointment in turn three. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Miscellaneous, item number 58, Western New York Medical Scholarship. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 59, concerns COVID-19 relief funds. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 60, concerns with housing in Buffalo. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Golombi. Petitions. Item number 61, special use 219 Hudson for retail and services. Motion to send to legislation, City Planning Board, items 61 through 73. Second by Council Member Furlow. Submission list, civil service. Item number 1, status change motor equipment mechanic. Motion is to receive and file items 1 through and including 15. Seconded by the Majority Leader, David A. Rivera. Item number 16, Notice of Appointment for Heavy Equipment Operator. Motion is to approve item 16 through and including 19. Seconded by Majority Leader Rivera. Finance, item number 20, G-Techno Contract Extension. Motion to approve items number 1 and 2. My Council Member will know. 20 and 21, excuse me. My Council Member will know. Community Development, item number 22, Pilot Project for FIRST. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader Riviera. Item number 23, Buffalo Blizzard, December 2022. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 24, reported so 20, North Ogden. No motion to deny. Seconded by Council Member Bowman, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have been working with our real estate department on this item, and we are going to deny this item with the intention of resubmitting a new report of sale to potentially consider both applicants. Thank you. All right. For the record, the reason for denial has been read by the district council member. Next item. item number 25 exploratory to examine feasibility of child care for city hall employees motion to receive and file second by councilmember columbia legislation item number 26 2023 2024 food store license renewals motion to approve Second by councilmember white and a number 27 zone and map amendment 1625 Fillmore motion to recommit 2728 and 29 and my cousin Ringo and a number 30 booster license renewals for 2023 motion receiving file and my customer no Gonski and a number 31 booster license 615 Broadway motion to approve 31 and 32 with conditions second my councilmember no cousin claims item number 33 Daniel Aliyah for 40,000 motions to approve items 31 and through and including 47. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Resolutions. Item number 74, weigh fees for Cherry Blossom Festival. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 75, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to send to finance items 75 and 76. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 77, commissioner of deeds. Motion to adopt 77 and 78. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 79, fee waiver for E-Prayer at MLK. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Norco. Item number 80, Councilmember Scanlon excused from April 4, 2023 Council meeting. Motion to adopt items 80 through 82. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 83, creates a distinctive license plate for veterans on a barricade. This is a late file. Councilmember Winkle, would you like to speak on that? If not, we can approve. second by councilmember lingo um councilmember i believe it would be an adapt uh are we an item Which item? It's 83, you might have a- Excuse me, on 83, may I speak on that, Mr. Chairman? Thank you. We wonder why you- Thank you. Since it was your item, I thought maybe- Definitely want to speak on this. Generous. Thank you so much. You have the floor. Mr. Chairman, there's a bill going through the State Senate and Assembly to create a distinguishing license plate for the Borinqueneers. They are the 65th Infantry. They fought in the First World War, Second World War, and the Korean War. It was a segregated group of men, Puerto Ricans, who served and served distinguishedly in those wars. And like other communities who have asked for distinguishing license plates, we're asking for a plate that distinguished them as well for their service and their bravery. So we're asking that this be sent to Director Clerk for this copy of the resolution to the State Department of Transportation and the Senate and Assembly Chair of the Transportation Committee, Senator Tim Kennedy, and Assemblymember William McNellarelli. so we ask that you forward that to them thank you very much for your support on this yes thank you absolutely all right and he's right council member why at council member galumbe anyone else at council member bowman and council member fairletter council member no custody council member wing thank you at all and that's really significant as a veteran i just want to say thank you thank you that is significant that we recognize all of our veterans and especially those uh black and brown that did not get recognition in the past thank you thank you next item item number 84 trailblazing resolution for reverend dr john t hillard a late file from council member wingle what would you like to prove Motion to approve items 84, 85, and 86. Second by Council Member Wingo. Announcement. Mr. Chair. Council Member Wyatt. Can we go back to item number 68, please? If we must, we certainly can, sir. Thank you. I know this item is being sent to legislation and city planning board, but I just wanted to make sure that we're clear and thank first of all, Commissioner and her team for putting forth and working on the legislation along with Corporation Council regarding smoke shops. On this agenda, I have another item regarding a smoke shop. So I'm glad that we're going back and addressing it. The Commissioner and Corporation Council is looking to address the smoke shop legislation because of the lawsuit regarding marijuana. So, again, I want to make sure we're clear that we want to make certain that this is a process that doesn't oversaturate in our districts. We know it's legal, but not everybody's comfortable with it. And so I'm glad that they're looking at that legislation to make sure that it addresses that as well, because that is definitely a concern. I've already heard from residents. you know it's illegal and we can't stop it but we don't need it to be over saturated in our communities and however they do the licensing part of it i know we've talked about it a number of times um with the um cannabis group as far as our concerns And hopefully, again, they bring us in the loop as far as our concerns. So we can address it before we get into it, because we know that the way it was rolled out, it may not have been rolled out in the best way. But they've got through the legal process now. So we're past that part. But again, as far as it relates to the community. that's something that we want to definitely make sure that we're on top of and i don't have a problem with people doing what they need to do but we just don't want to see an over saturation and unfairly in certain areas you know it should be distributed fairly throughout the city so you don't want to see like all the weed on the family i don't want to see just weed shops all on b like i don't see smoke shops all on bail in main street thank you send them over to columbia district Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, April 11, 2023 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, April 11, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, April 11 at 1 p.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, April 11, 2023 at 2 p.m. Special committees. Committee on police oversight will be Wednesday, April 12, 2023 at 11 a.m. Council members, any announcements for your district? Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. President. You put your hand up like you was at school or something. Go ahead. So, of course, for the last eight years, Mastin District has continued the tradition of ensuring that we have our community meetings on the second Saturday of every month. You all have heard we make these announcements every single Tuesday right before the... meeting in our community. But what we don't talk about much is how much effort it takes to put these meetings on for the community to ensure that there are different departments to be present every month to inform the community of what's happening and what's been going on and some new developments and things. And folks know that if you want to do anything in Maston, you have to come to our Maston District Stakeholders Breakfasts. We've kind of morphed those over the years to a town hall so that folks have the platform to speak to the council member personally and other department heads in the city of Buffalo to get information and to get questions answered immediately. Well, today is a special day, Mr. President, because today is April 4th. And what is so significant about April 4th? April 4th is Viola's birthday. And Viola is the organizer of the Mass and District Breakfasts that we have every single month. And she's also been my chief of staff and gatekeeper for the last eight years. And today is her birthday. So today I would like to wish Viola, Diane, Bryant a very happy birthday and for ensuring that the Madison District Office has run as smoothly as it has all of these years. She is responsible for the great meals. That the people in the Madison District enjoy every second Saturday. She is responsible for my agenda that informs the community and helps build their capacity. So without a Viola, there would not be a great Madison District Office of the people of Madison I've been proud to be part of for the last seven years. That I am proud to serve as council member. She makes my job a lot. easier. Now, I know it's her birthday, but I do want to acknowledge all my other staff that is here as well, just to help me wish Viola a happy birthday, which is going to be Courtney Kincannon, my legislative assistant. Courtney and then Magda Reynolds, my office assistant, and Mario's in the clerk's office. But we all do. They all do a yeoman job of making sure that the residents of Madison District feel special. And they make me in turn feel special to represent such a great group of people and to be their council members. So all that said, on April 8th, on Saturday, we will have our Madison District Stakeholders Breakfast. It will be held at nine o'clock again at... 877 East Delavan at the Delavan Grider Center right here in the great city of Buffalo, New York. I see your gavel, which means it's almost time for me to wrap it up. But I got the floor, so let me just finish real quick. At 9 o'clock, we have our speakers there. Please come out for a nice hot breakfast and some healthy donuts and things of that nature. So other than that, thank you, Mr. Chair, for the privilege and the honor of saying what I said today and wishing Viola a happy birthday. Thank you again. Never a problem. Council Member White. I just want to say happy birthday to our Majority Leader today. It's his birthday, so happy birthday, Majority Leader. All right. Thank you. Good people were born on this day. All right. Happy birthday. You got a birthday? You got a birthday. And you, what you got? Huh? Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.