2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Fontana. Council Member Franzek is excused. Council Member Golombek. Council Member, Council President Fridgen. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. Isaiah 61.4, wonderful verse. They will rebuild the ancient ruins, restore the places long devastated. They will renew the ruined cities that have been devastated for generations. One more time. They'll rebuild ancient ruins, restore places long devastated, renew ruined cities devastated for generations. The three R's. Rebuild, restore, renew. Rebuild, restore, renew. At this point in Isaiah, they're talking about restoration. cities that have been hurted, cities that have been leveled, cities that have been abandoned, cities that have been hurted. And there's a whole lot of folks that want to do that around Buffalo, but I believe for the Council, we need to think about those three R's not just in regard to buildings, not just in regard to structures, but people that need rebuilding and restoring and renewing. And that's where the council comes in. Your responsibility has to be more than just to a bottom line of a profit to be made on a building to be repaired and restored and renewed and then filled with people or businesses. You have to think, too, about your constituents, those who not just put you into office, but those who even voted against you that now you represent. And every one of those people and their next generation and next generation and next generation More than just a building that's better, we need people that are being built up. People rebuilt, restored, and renewed. I want to suggest to you today that this council has gone through lots of chapters since I first came on board as chaplain under Council President Pitts back in 1999. There have been a whole lot of folks through here. And this incarnation, this group that's here today, I have more confidence in than any group I've served. In terms of your desire to do what's right and righteous for people and for the people. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the words of Isaiah. They resonate in our city today. We think, Lord, of places, blocks, neighborhoods. many that now are coming back to life others that still need that life-giving breath we pray for the right kind of developers for this city we pray for the right kind of business owners for this city we pray for the right kind of political leaders for this city we pray for the right kind citizens and citizen voices and citizen activists for this bit Lord I thank you that as buildings are coming back we pray that this council will guard and steward well and the coming back of people, not just those that have been here for a long time, but our teenagers and children. We pray that you'd guard them. We want to see them rebuilt, renewed, and restored, the next and the next and the next generation of Buffalonians. I pray, Lord, as liberations take place today, lead and guide for the betterment of the citizens of Buffalo, New York, and let this council hear your voice as they tune their ear to heaven. and act righteously on the behalf of others. In your name we pray. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Council Members and Morals, Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm praying for my family again in the loss of my brother-in-law's father, Robert Dukavitz, and his wife and his son, Robert and Shelly. Thank you, sir. And just want to say, you did a wonderful job at his home going. He wasn't a member of True Bethel, but you opened your arms to the church as you do anyone. Because that's what his wife requested, that you did the service and you did a magnificent job. Thank you so much. But continue to keep them in your prayers because he was only 60 years old and he passed suddenly. And sometimes when you pass suddenly, it's more detrimental than when you had a long illness. So please keep the family in your prayers. Thank you. You have a councilman? No? Councilmember Golombi. We also lost two military personnel since our last meeting. So for those names that were called and those that may have not been called, but have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. on a motion by mr revere second by mrs scanlon the minutes of the stated meeting held on march 19th 2019 are approved the lake files out before you are there any objections to the late files hearing no objection we will hear all of the agenda that is before us today not taking away your right pause the meeting if you were not able to review an item going from top uh mr chairman motion to take item 75 out of order second by council member fear a little item number 75 discharge item 19 dash for 11 20 08 Genesee motion to adapt think about council members for your level on the top item number one appointment to the Jesse Ketchum board of directors motion to receive and file taken by council member white item number two approval request for North Buffalo Community Center motion to send the CD second by council member Item number three Michigan Michigan Sycamore historic district motion to send to legislation Second by council member Fontana item number four report a sale 2552 Bailey Motion to approve items four through six second by council member Fontana item number seven report a sale of 97 and 99 Harmonia motion to send the CD item seven and eight saying by council member Wingo Item number nine, report a sale of 38 and 40 Winslow. Motion to approve items 10 through 12. Second by Councilmember Fonten. Nine. Nine. Permit? To approve items nine through 12. All right. 13, yeah, nine through 12, sorry. Nine through 12, second by the second stand. Item number 13, principal accountant. Motion to send the civil service items 13 and 14. Second by President Pro Tem Scala. Item number 15, first extension agreement for City of Buffalo and Sirocco. To insurance for open data portal. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Columbo. Item number 16, notification serial 11248 and small stop signs in West Beckham. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item number 17, change to contract city hall room renovation project. Motion to approve items 17 through 34. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 35, full start license, 290 Kenmore. Motion to send legislation to item 35, 36, and 37. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 38, garbage collector license. Motion to approve items 38 through 41. So my customer in front of item number 42 appoint supervisor elevator inspections. Motion to send civil service. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 43 appoint deputy chief financial officer. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Lombard. Item number 44 authorization of supplemental payment workers comp. Motion to approve items 44 and 45. Second by Council Member Watt. Item number 46 appoint executive director. Motion to receive and file items 46 through. 51. Second by Councilmember for your letter. Item number 52, notice of appointment, temp, provisional or permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 53, 2019 University District, food store license conditions. Motion for that. Second by Council Member White. Item number 54, Fruit Belt Advisory Council, 313 Cherry, 884 Virginia, 65 Grape. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 55, request to hang police remembrance flags. Motion to send the CD and DPW. Motion to send the CD. second by councilman function item number 56 monthly city hall incident report motion to receive and file and my council member fontana item number 57 seeker nag deck for 14 knots 57 is adopted second by councilman columbia item number 58 new yorkers against gun violence letters motion to send legislation thank you my council member on 10. Item number 59, National Greatest Symphony Circle Active Living. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item number... Council Member Wiggins. Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say again, I really don't want to have to send this back to CD, but... What item are you speaking of? This is 59. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I didn't want to have to send this back to the committee, but there's been some confusion around the property that's being proposed for this establishment, whether it's going to be sold, and if it's going to be to new property owners, how the special use permit will outlive the current owner. There's some confusion around that, so we're going to recommit this just so we can kind of... Well, excuse me. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I apologize. I'm looking at the paper. I got my paper and I got y'all paper out, so I'm sorry. I wasn't wondering. I'm like, why is everybody looking at me this way? But thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate it. I'll make the comments when the item comes back up. All right. Thanks, Spider. Item number 60, special use 3063 main Fajuca establishment. Motion to send item 60 through 66 to ledge the city planning board. This is my council member, Ward. Yeah, that's that's it. Councilman Wiggum. Yeah, this is this is the item and my unfortunately my sheet from office is not synced with the latest sheet that was printed out for us here on the floor. But anyway, this just what I don't want to have to do is keep going back and forth with this hookah lounge regarding the approval. But again, there's been some confusion around. the ownership of the building that this proposed establishment is going to be in. So we want to take this back to committee, iron that out, and also iron out some other things and issues as it relates to the radius for which the establishment had to send out the notification. Once all that's clear, and once we also have some accommodations that are requested of the community in writing that the proposed owner of this establishment or business can respond to, at that point we'll move forward with an attempt at an approval. Other than that, we're going to recommit this back to the president. Now, this is 60, right? This is sending it. Special use for me, yeah. It's sending it to CD. Okay, everybody, let me, hold on one second, please. 60 is university district. No, I've got to run the meeting. 60 is... Hold on, council member. 60 is university. Is it a different number you're talking about? Because this is going to legislation. So I think it just might be... Yeah, yeah, yeah. So we're fine. So this is not university districts item. This is Bethany item number 24. Alright, it's in left. Okay, so you're fine with everything? I mean, this is the wrong address, correct? Right, this is why before everybody... This address, yes, this is absolutely my, yeah, this is 2637. No, this is a totally different address. This is University. You're positive that this is not University? Because I do have an application. This is going to ledge, so it's not being recommitted. Right. This is going to ledge. There's a public hearing on it next week. It's got to go through that process. So I think it's a different address that we're talking about. Right. All right, next item. Item 67, East Community High School supports ban on single-use plastics. Motion to go to CD. All right, second by Councilmember White. Item number 68, petition opposing Hookah Establishment 2637 Main Street. Motion to receive and file. All right. Second by Council Member Wingo. And I want to make sure that the Council Member has what he needs. Are you? Hold on. Do I have two different? Let me just look at ours. Yes. Corporation Council. Corporation Council Karen Gordon. Are you sure it's not 2008? Yeah, 2008 that you're looking for? 2637. 24 and left. Is that a hookah? It's a hookah. Is it 28? It's not. It's not. Okay. Yes. You all right now? All right. Just want to make sure we hookah in the right hookah bar. We're in the right direction now. I don't want to hookah out, kick out a hookah bar. Thank you, everybody. All right. Silver Service Committee, item number one, appointment to Buffalo Water Board. Motion to approve items number one. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item number 8, Notice of Appointment. Sent provision on permanent. Receiving file. Seconded by Council Member Frioletta. Finance Committee. Item number 9, Cash Flow Report. Motion to receive and file 9 through and including 11. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Community Development. Item number 12, Buffalo Arts Commission opposed petition to remove artwork from MLK Park. I think Ms. Gillespie was supposed to be here to speak. I don't see her, so we can table this. Yeah, and she was already, she was here at the meeting. Right. So she wouldn't speak here. Okay. I believe that it's all set because the district council member has already said. We can receive and file it. I'll make a motion. If it's all right with the district council member. Yeah. Council Member Wingo. Are you all right with receiving and filing this item? Yeah. Okay. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 13, report is so 88 Dodge. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Legislation Committee item number 14, special use permit 1125 Tonawanda. Proof with conditions. Proof with conditions. Second by Councilmember Golumbek who has the floor. And the conditions are that we have a one year sunset clause on it. This is an establishment where we had had some problems in the past. However, it's new owners who I believe are going to try to do the right thing. But I want to make sure that we have a little bit of a hammer on them. So for one year, we're going to keep tabs on them. I'm going to let the residents know to do 311, 911, et cetera calls. I anticipate that there's no problems. But if there are, I want to make sure that we have a record and that they have to come back in front of us one year from now. Thank you, Mr. President. So noted. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 15, special use permit for 14 knots for auto repair. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Oh, this is approved. Number 15. 15, I don't know. Motion to approve. All right. The motion is, so let's rescind that because I put a second on it. We rescind the motion to adopt, second by Council Member Frioletto. Now the motion is to approve, second by Council Member Frioletto. Next item. Item number 16, special use permit 1469 Niagara Street. Motion to approve items 16 and 17. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 18, used car dealer, 1338 East Ferry. Motion to approve with conditions set by the district council member. I'll read them into the record. No more than 10 vehicles on the lot at a time. Car lot must be striped for vehicles. Lot must be striped before any sale or display of vehicles. The last one is subject to one year's sunset clause for annual review. What a record is stated second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 19, Hazel Irene Gaut Trailblazer sign request. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 20, local landmark 1029 West Avenue. Motion to approve items 20 through 23. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 24, special use permit 2637A for a hookah establishment. I'll defer to Councilmember Wingo. i was remember when go ahead it's yours yeah i've already made all of my comments but i'll just reiterate again for for the record we're going to send this back to committee because there's some confusion around the ownership of the building and we also have to make sure that we clarify the radius for the notifications that were sent out of course um the clerk's office has already sent us their formula for sending those out so we just want to make sure that we are trying to accommodate all of the residents who have concerns before we go and approve this project this is just about the thing all right sir oh yeah i know there's someone here i just want to remind you at council uh we normally don't have speakers at council it's only at committee meetings uh where there will be speakers next item item number 25 special use permit 2008 genesee motion to deny was to deny second by council member fontana and if you want to speak to the record thank you very much i appreciate it this was probably the biggest issue the district has seen in 10 years as far as people coming into the chambers that i remember And the neighborhood clearly spoke that they don't want to see the use at this location. There's a special use that's needed. Also, which is nice, this will make Karen's job a lot easier, the applicant, upon consult with myself, has agreed that denial is the best option. It will get them out of a situation that they're in a predatory lease that they signed. So without the... Yeah, it was nice. A guy from New York City was really trying to get about $4,000 a month for this building. And I went over the numbers with them for their business, and I know the business, and they said that they would never be able to match that number. So without the use... granted by this council the lease is void so the lease will be void the residents will not have to deal with an issue of not wanting a building there used for that purpose and the owner of the building has agreed to speak with the mosque and work together on a solution to find a tenant that's suitable for all those people that live next to the place of business so in the end it seems like everybody won even though we're denying it this is one of those rare occasions that a denial will actually be a situation that'll be good thank you sir So what's the question? Council Member... I thought I made it easy. Yeah, so the reason for denial is... Well, the reason for the denial is widespread neighborhood opposition. And in the face of that opposition, the owner of the building, well, not the owner, but the tenant of the building has agreed not to seek the license anymore, their use, because the neighbor just doesn't want to see it. There's a big problem in the Muslim community with having an alcohol use right across the street. Residents of the streets were also concerned about this location being open at 4 in the morning. We saw violence at other such uses in the city. And owners of these buildings that don't properly maintain the buildings, as far as staffing goes, if they just turn the keys over to an individual to run a party there that night, that's when they have the problem. And the applicants here that came forward actually have absolutely no experience in the restaurant business whatsoever. Upon questioning, they couldn't tell me what their food cost number should be. They couldn't tell me much of anything as far as how to do the business. That left me very concerned that they weren't going to be able to really run the business. It was going to be maybe run as a, you know, hand it off to other people type of situation. And they'd be stuck with a bill each month. And then the moment violence would break out, potentially the place would be closed down. They'd be stuck in a five-year lease. So they saw the wisdom in not pursuing that option. Thank you. That is why I covered the cops. All right. It was voluntary also. I didn't have to worry something into saying, you know, I told him it doesn't look good. They said just deny it. It'll be best for everybody. All right. Thank you, sir. Resolutions. Item number 69, SDVLB, goals for the city of Buffalo. Motion to send legislation. Second. Second by Councilmember for your look. Item number 70, approve an amendment to 1992 finance agreement. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 71, fee waiver for Dingus Day. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 72, local law intro number one, use of internet payment system. Motion to send to legislation item 72 and 73. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 74, request for tops markets to explore options for Broadway and Bailey. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member White. Council Member Fontana has the floor. Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, this is a situation where we talk about, me and Council Member White talk about food deserts. And TOPS is saying that this store is unprofitable. But when it comes down to it, in the old days, we had a TOPS at Genesee and on Genesee Street. We still have one over in University District. We have one here at Broadway, Bailey, and then there's one in Bailey and South Park Avenue. So we have four TOPS down that entire side of the city of Buffalo. There's not much towards the center of the city at all. There's the Jefferson, but that's newer. So you had four tops serving that general vicinity of geographical area. Tops, 20 years ago, pulled out the rug on the Genesee Street store. They moved it out to Chihuahua. So that store is gone. So now I've got a bigger area disparity, but still kind of worked. We still had a tops at Broadway, Bailey, South Park, and Bailey, and then over essentially at Amherst, right? Amherst, too, but the Bailey is by UB. Okay. Decent coverage. Now they're saying there's so many TOPS in the area that we have to now drive out to the suburbs to go shopping or take a bus. TOPS is essentially creating a bigger food desert on the east side of the city of Buffalo by closing down the Broadway TOPS. Now I spoke with management, I spoke to other people. They put out a press release saying that they enjoy working with Councilman Fontana and they hope to in the future. What kind of press release is that? It addresses nothing about the store closing, nothing about the need of the people. Now we're being told to drive three miles to Tops in Chihuahua, to a store that's in the middle of a plaza that's known for pedestrian unsafe situations. So it's a sad situation that Tops doesn't understand that this food desert does exist on the east side of the city of Buffalo, that that store three years ago was slated for closing. I asked that it stay open then. They did keep it open to their credit, but not many resources were put towards the store. They're saying now to upgrade the store to today's standards, it would cost millions of dollars. They don't see the reinvestment. I ask simply that they just keep the store similar to what it is, keep offering fresh fruits, produce, vegetables, meats, a full-line supermarket. They don't see the wisdom in that, and it's part of their bankruptcy, they tell me. Now, during the bankruptcy, they mentioned that no stores would be closed. That was part of it. It was in the Buffalo News and everything. Now they're starting to say stores will be closed, but only when the leases are up. I think it's the new board that has much less of a community focus than the old board did. The old board of tops, back from the old Niagara Falls days, back from the old Buffalo days when they were really a local supermarket, was controlled by people that knew the area very well. Unfortunately, we're dealing with now where just a few people left on the board, Mr. Kirchie included, who does care about the neighborhoods, but he's being... outvoted by money people on the board. And those money people want to make a profit. So unfortunately, the food desert on the east side of the city of Buffalo is going to get bigger because of this. We asked TOPS to reconsider. I appreciate all my concerns expressed to my office from colleagues and concerned citizens. I appreciate the vote today of the Common Council unanimously asking TOPS to remain at Broadway at Bailey. We're not looking for an olive bar and all the fixings. We don't want it. I mean, we want to go there and shop for the necessities of life. We don't want to have to drive or take a bus all all the way up to Chihuahua to go to a store that's really essentially in a whole other town. And that disparity now between Amherst and South Buffalo is even bigger. And it's a result of the store closing. So thank you for your vote today. Hopefully Tops will reconsider and keep the store open, but it doesn't look good. I don't want to give people false hope. People are saying I should have a rally out front, I should do this. I'm not the type of guy that's going to waste people's times. If I thought a rally could help, I would do it, but I think this is good that we do this. We held a rally 20 years ago in front of the Tops on Genesee Street. It did no good at all. I mean, they had some negative press, they understood that. We did call the news, we did interviews. Our residents are being told to send letters in the tops, but they're telling me it's over. They're not going to do it. They're going to close the store no matter what I do. But I couldn't go down without a fight, as you know. And with your support today, I appreciate the vote that you've all taken. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Item number 76 local law intro number two a man article 31 flood damage prevention motion to send legislation second by council member Winkle item number 77 protection of neighborhood names motion for that second by council member scanlet note this needs to go to a committee and make sure this happens so we could send about the results in the remainder to to ledge and So that's what we got the results remainer to legislation. Please. Thank you Motion the second stand item number 78 fee waiver for time and tiger track motion to approve second by councilman Item number 79 home will request to correct boundary line in town to Evans motion to adapt single by president pro-tips Item number 80 trailblazing sign for pearly e Robertson motion to approve items 80 through 82 and my council member Wingo. I Item number 83 Commissioner of Deeds motion to adopt items 83 and 84 and my councilmember why I don't number 80 Item number 85 budget and personnel amendment motion to approve second by Councilman what I don't number 86 established schools on speed camera locations motion to send the CD second by comes my wife for Thank you, Mr. President. Good that we have this item come through from the state. The leadership at the state did a fantastic job. This is something that we've been concerned about. This will make our school zone safer for children and families. um we'll have some community meeting well a public meeting next week so if anyone is interested and concerned they can come down to that meeting we'll also have additional meetings depending on the council members if they feel as though that's something that we want to have in their respective districts or have them i plan to have one in the university district because many of my constituents have talked about these these speeding and things that's going on but this is specifically for school zones so i want to make it clear to residents This is for school zones, so our schools will be safer, and I think it's a great piece of legislation. Thanks for the administration for their support for this item. Again, I think it will improve our school zones and make them safe for our children. Thank you. Absolutely. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, April 9, 2019 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance, file on civil service, Tuesday, April 9, 2019 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, April 9, 2019 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development, Tuesday, April 9, 2019 at 2 p.m. I apologize. I had asked that we would hold items that we would revisit to the end, and I forgot to ask for the last two meetings. Were there any items that we needed to revisit? All right. Any announcements, Councilmembers? Councilmember Wingo. Thank you. April the 13th, Saturday, 830 in the morning, the Mastin District Stakeholders Meeting and Breakfast will be held at the Delavan Grider Center, 877-510-8000. East Delavan, we're looking for everyone to come out and join us. We will be planning, talking about our Easter egg hunt that we have annually. So that'll be a lot of fun. So please, everyone, come out again. That's 830. We serve you good breakfast, good food, good information. We have a lot of different stakeholders coming, a lot of different partners in our community coming out. Just a mass event. of information that's going to be available to everyone. We just want to continue to encourage everyone to come out that this information is available. One of the things we've been hearing as we've been walking the streets is that folks surprisingly don't know about the meeting right down the street from them. I don't know if they think it's a wedding every second Saturday or what, but we want everyone to know, I've been saying this for the last three years now, that there is a stakeholders meeting at the Delavan Grider at 8.30, the second Saturday of every month, except for June, which we celebrate Juneteenth. Other than that, thank you, Mr. Chair, for the time to make this announcement. Appreciate it. Thank you. Any other announcements? Council Member White. I want to invite the University District residents to a press conference that's going to be taking place regarding the eight days of whole project, which I think is an exceptional project that is going to bless many people in the University District who cannot afford to repair their homes. So we're going to have a press conference at 10 AM at Kensington and Park Ridge, right at the Eight Days of Hope facility. Again, if you want to get more information, you can come to this press conference. You'll hear more. But I'm looking forward to it because there's so many residents who are desperate for help. And they don't qualify for grants. They don't qualify for a lot of different programs. These individuals who are part of Eight Days of Hope will be coming into our community, hundreds of people volunteering. doing work for free so many of our seniors will be at a benefit for this vote this press conference is important if you want more information on friday april 5th at 10 a.m eight days of hope right at kensington and park ridge thank you good good councilman fontana Just so everyone knows, Mr. Ed Hernan has entered the chamber, so we want to welcome Ed to the meeting today because Ed is a great Buffalonian. So, Ed, thanks for coming today. We appreciate it. As well as there's going to be two Easter egg hunts in Lovejoy District this year. We normally do one. The other one was always done by Gene Porkanowski. Gene passed on last year. He held the annual Easter hunt every year in Kaisertown for over 35 years with his business. And without Gene, we figured the tradition should continue. It wasn't going to, but we figured it should. So me and my wife are going to do it this year in Kysertown, April 13th, 10 a.m., Houghton Park. And then on the 19th, we're going to continue our tradition in Schiller Park to do it as well. We're not as big as Mastin. Mastin's the biggest. They give out the biggest bunnies and everything, but they do. But we'll do a good job for the kids, April 19th, 11 a.m. at Schiller Park. So just call the office if you need more information. Well, speaking of Easter egg hunts, I'm going to send all the kids from Ellicott to Mastin and Lovejoy. So go to those. That's where you go. Any other announcements? Motion? Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilman Fontana. Thank you all.