Five, four, three, two, one. President Pro Tem Bowman, Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Corum is present. Thank you, can we please all stand for the pledge? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. I would ask that you please stay standing for today's invocation. For today's invocation, I'd like to welcome back to the chambers, Reverend Al Warner. Thank you, Council President, Council Members. Good to be back, and especially good to meet our newest members of the council. Still new to me, so welcome especially to you. Today, of course, is Jim Montour's last day. And he reached out to me and said, would you come and do the invocation for my last day? Thank you, Jim. And typical of Jim, he brought me a plant. Right over there is the plant Jim brought me for his last day. So I told him he should bloom where he's planted. Okay, there we go. Assignments change. Every one of you council members changed assignments when you were sworn into this seat. My assignment has changed many times over the years. Some of you have had chapters in reincarnation on reincarnation. As Consulate Chief of Staff, Jim has worn many hats. And for me, Jim, you've been a joy to work with. Thank you. But he's moving to an incredible organization. Habitat for Humanity is one of my very favorite organizations of all. And I believe Jim will serve there incredibly well. That he'll make a difference in a group, in an organization that is called to be difference makers for this community, to make Buffalo better, one new home at a time. They're making a difference for those who thought they might never own a home. And the volunteer force, I've met some of the volunteer force who volunteer for Habitat, are exceptional, servant-hearted, compassionate, always giving themselves, Jim, a great fit for you. But Jim, you've got a big enough heart that I want to take and pray not only for your transition, but for everyone here who's in transition. Everyone who's in transition. I made a note. Some of you in a moment of transition, some in a season of transition. It can seem all too long. Jeremiah 29.11 says it this way. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans to prosper you and not to harm you. Plans to give you hope. and a future, let's pray. Father, thank you for your goodness. But I thank you for those who serve the city both in council and on the staff of council. And throughout this city hall, thank you for those that have given of themselves to serve and make Buffalo a better place. Thanks for Jim. your hand is on him and i even now as we release him to his next assignment thank you that he's well prepared to step into that new role i pray for him in the transition but i pray for anyone here today who's feeling that perhaps momentary but perhaps far longer season of transition and for some of them There can be worry or fear at a darkness in the tunnel. Not sure how long it's going to last, not sure what it's going to incorporate. Father, I pray this verse from Jeremiah 29. Thank you that you want to give hope and a future to us. I pray now blessing this council meeting. Thank you Father that your hand of wisdom and guidance is on these nine as they lead and direct the city. Thank you for their servant heart to you and to our city citizens. And Lord, I thank you that even now, you're here, present, active, and caring. In the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, amen. Thank you, Reverend Warner. Council members in memoriams, majority leader. Yes, I'd like to remember and ask for thoughts and prayers for Reverend Melvin Milton Maxwell, who was first ordained at First Shiloh Baptist Church under Dr. Braxton, and who is now a member of the Catholic Church. and went on to serve in Washington, D.C. at East Friendship. He passed away last week suddenly, and he will be missed forever. Council Member Farrelletto. Thank you. I would like to ask that we keep the family of Constance Eve. In our prayers, she dedicated her life to public service. She had a passion for public service, was involved with many things over the decades. One was that she was the founder of the Women for Human Rights and Dignity organization. Also like to keep in mind the family of Dr. Francesco Giacobi. Dr. Jacoby founded the Italian Cultural Center about ten years ago and saw it from a rented store space on Hurdle Avenue to purchasing and renovating a million dollar city building on the corner of Hurdle and Delaware Avenue. Thank you. In addition to that, I would ask that we please keep on our thoughts. Members of the first responder community or armed forces community who may have lost their lives in service since our last meeting, in particular, New York Police Department Officer Jonathan Diller. And also the victims of the Baltimore Bridge Collapse, Maynard Yassir Suazo Sandoval, Miguel Luna, Jose Minor Lopez, Alejandro Hernandez Fuentes, Dorlian Roniel, Castillo Cabrera, and as of yet six unidentified victims. So I would ask that we please keep everyone that was mentioned here today in our thoughts. And for that, we'll take a moment of silence. Thank you. To begin today's meeting, we have a couple of presentations. And to start, I would welcome to the podium our Majority Leader, Leah Halton Pope. Thank you, Council President. It is with great honor that I have the opportunity to acknowledge my woman of distinction honoree this afternoon. She is the esteemed city comptroller. The Honorable Barbara Miller-Williams. She is the very first Ellicott District woman to be elected as Ellicott District Council Member. She's the head of the Department of Audit and Control and stands as trailblazer and visionary leader. Providing direct oversight over critical divisions as audit, cash and debt management and accounting, superintending the fiscal affairs of the city with diligence, integrity and expertise. Her distinguished career in public service is marked by a legacy of leadership and achievement having previously served as Erie County Legislator for Districts 1 and 3. Where she made history as first African American woman to serve as Chairperson and demonstrated exceptional leadership as Chairperson in key committees. Finance, management, finance, management and budget, health and human services among others. She served obviously as the first woman to serve in this role before I got here and I'm honored to be the second in her place. She's also a former police officer, Buffalo police officer. She was an ID Bureau warrant officer, traffic division and point control. She served as an army reservist. And therefore, let it be proclaimed that the City of Buffalo, Buffalo Common Council, on behalf of all of its citizens, we hereby honor and commend. our very own Barbara Miller Williams for her outstanding leadership and unwavering dedication and extraordinary contributions to the city of Buffalo during our Women's History Month. And beyond that, yesterday was her birthday, so how wonderful that she would be here for us today. So unfortunately she wasn't here last month due to sickness, but she was here today, so thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome our Comptroller, Ms. Barbara Miller Williams. Okay, yes, if you would. Of course. Thank you. Greetings, greeting, greetings to Council President Scanlon, President Pro Temporal Bowman, Majority Leader Halton Pope, and all other council members that are present. As shared, please accept my humble apologies for not being present at the last session. It was due to illness, but I also want to take a moment a personal privilege if I may, to extend a special thank you. Because yes, yesterday was my birthday. And the first person who shouted out a greeting, who acknowledged my birthday, was none other than the Honorable Joseph Golombak. So I just wanted to be known. Joe Golombek, you are appreciated. I thank you for that. It used to be my mother who always called and said happy birthday. She was the first one. So you reminded me of that. It brought up a lot of emotions. So thank you, thank you, thank you, Joe Golombek, for that, for taking your time and to recognize me. May I start my comments by sharing that being recognized during Women's History Month by members of this esteemed body, it is a tremendous honor. A special thank you to my council member, Majority Leader Leah Halton-Pope, who is currently serving as the Ellicott District Council Member. As the first woman who happens to be African American to serve in that capacity, I remain so proud every time I look up and I realize this young sister is now representing. My historical contributions in government and community service, it may be notable to some, but to me, I remain humble and I truly understand that the continued supportive efforts of numerous women that I've had the privilege to serve throughout the years and to serve with, they are entitled to this recognition. As we all know, this is the month when we have to pause and we remind ourselves about the countless women today and throughout history who have paved the way for progress and equality. And I pray that women like our council member and as well as our council member, Zanetta Everhart, that they continue to represent us to ensure a bright future. I sincerely thank each and every one of you for this special acknowledgement and I want us to continue to celebrate women and all of our significant contributions so that we can all thrive and succeed in our respective arenas. I conclude with noting that together we can continue to break down barriers and we can build a more inclusive and equitable world for future generations if we all do our part and don't forget about the women's contributions. I'm going to conclude with my favorite quote, and it is as follows. I am just an ordinary woman, but I have been blessed to do extraordinary things in service to all mankind. Thank you for this opportunity to come before this body to serve. I appreciate each and every one of you, and I say thank you, thank you, thank you. We have to take another picture. Sorry, y'all. Excuse me. Which way? Yeah, look this way. Thank you. Thank you for being understanding. Appreciate you. Thank you for coming. All right. Thank you, Mayor and Comptroller. Congratulations. Next, we have a presentation from Niagara District Councilmember David Rivera. It is my honor and privilege to recognize the Arts for Learning of Western New York. I have been a big proponent of the arts community now for 16 years it started off with young audiences and now it's art for learning I thank you for the mission that you have to strengthen the arts in our community to bring out the potential in many of our young women and children I've had the good fortune of being able to go to schools and see the impact that you have had on the lives of these young men and women. And being able to help them develop their full potential in the arts community, whether it's dancing, whether it's literature, There's just so many different areas of the arts community that you have impacted. You have impacted 45,000 youth, approximately 5 million people in this region. And we thank you for that. I know that many of the council members that are here are big proponents of the arts community. And we ask that you continue to support the arts, especially in our school systems, to make sure that our children are receiving the appropriate resources they need to expand these programs both inside the school and outside the school. So with that I just want to read a small portion of the resolution of the proclamation. Arts for Learning Western New York consists of rich array of disciplines including dance, music, theater, media arts, literature, design, and visual arts which enables students to develop critical thinking, problem-solving skills, imagination, creativity, alternative ways to communicate growth, cross-cultural understanding, supporting academic success as well as personal growth. Arts for the Learning provides a well-researched and proven methodology to differentiate to meet the needs of all students, especially for English language learners and students with special needs. With that, thank you so much for all you do. I'd like to give you an opportunity to say a few words. Good afternoon. My name is Arlo Linton. I've served on the Board of Directors for Arts for Learning for about eight years. I will keep this very brief. We just want to with deep heartfelt thanks, just express our gratitude to the entire Common Council and say thank you for the years of continued support. Your support allows us to continue to expand our programming and impact more youth in the community. So for that we are eternally grateful. Thank you very much. Stand right here. Sure. There you go. Come right there. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. To wrap up our presentations before our meeting today, we have a little bit of a bittersweet one today. I'd ask if our Chief of Staff, Jim Montour, could join me down here. As Reverend Warner mentioned during his invocation, today is Jim's last day as our Chief of Staff, and he's been an incredible addition to our staff for the past decade plus. And we have a proclamation here from all nine council members. Typically I wouldn't read the whole thing, but today I'd like to. Whereas after nearly 12 years of loyal service to the city of Buffalo, Jim Montour, Chief of Staff to the Common Council, is turning a new page in his career book. Jim was born and raised in Buffalo's Lovejoy District and received his early education in the Buffalo Public Schools. He then graduated from Lancaster High School before returning to the city to attend Buffalo State College, earning his degrees in both history and social studies education. After taking a history class at Buffalo State College, his official journey in public service began. When his once professor, council member Joe Gombach, who seems to be receiving a lot of notoriety today, recognized Jim's appetite for advocacy, coupled with his passion for community empowerment, thus appointing him as a legislative assistant in the central staff office of the Buffalo Common Council. Whereas over the last decade, Jim has worked tirelessly to assist dozens of council members and their districts, and more recently as chief of staff, has taken the lead on implementing strategic initiatives, managing teams, and developing comprehensive communication strategies to make our city council more transparent and more impactful. Whereas above all else, Jim is a devoted husband to his wife and biggest supporter, Tracy, and an irreplaceable office personality to his fellow staffers in room 1413. Completely committed to leading a positive and productive office, Jim treated each coworker with kindness and fairness. Kept things light, created and sustained a unified team, and always kept problems in perspective. Now therefore, let it be proclaimed that the Common Council of the City of Buffalo commends Jim Montour for his hard work, outstanding leadership, unwavering dedication and extraordinary contributions to the Buffalo Common Council. And extend our congratulations and well wishes as he joins his new team at Habitat for Humanity Buffalo as Director of Development and Communications. Just a personal note, Jim and I started on the council right around the same time in 2012. And I got to watch him blossom from a staffer to our deputy chief of staff, and it ultimately is our chief of staff, and it's been a real pleasure. But more than that, when we first met, I didn't know I'd be gaining a friend. So I wish you all the best. The council members all wish you the best in your future endeavors, and we want to thank you from the bottom of our heart for all your contributions and your commitment to the council. Thank you. I'll say something, why not? It actually wasn't quite exactly how you put it when Councilmember Golombac sat me down at the Croatian club. It was a cautionary tale about joining government. You know, he's very serious. He's a very easygoing person, but when he's serious, you know it's something very serious. And he just sat me down, and I was going to school to become a teacher, and I expressed interest, maybe I want to do this government thing. And he just looked at me sternly and said, are you absolutely sure about that? And 12 years later, I can say yes, I am sure, and I made the right decision. And it's been an absolute honor and privilege to serve all of you, to serve the residents, to work with the greatest staff I could ever ask for. It's been an absolute blessing, and I'll carry this with me for the rest of my life. Thank you so much. So then maybe after the meeting, we'll grab a picture with Jim, with everyone. Mr. Chair. Mr. Chair. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. I know this is unusual, but I just had to raise my hand. Absolutely. Because I was Chief of Staff when Jim came on. And I can say I honor him tremendously because I didn't know he was going to make it. I'm like, oh, I don't know about this guy. But I can say when you talk about seeing someone transition and I can say when he got married, so I'll give Tracy a lot of credit, he became so focused. And I'd like to think of myself as somebody that's really good at managing but I can't hold a torch to you. You are exceptional. You went beyond, and this group has done things that I probably couldn't have done, but you've done it with different people. And when you know you're a good manager, you don't get to handpick these people. They come to you, and you have to manage their talents and their skills. So I commend you tremendously. I thank you for all that you've done for us, and I look forward to your continued growth. So thank you. Congratulations. All right, with that, on a motion by Mrs. Leah Halton-Pope, seconded by Mr. Farrelletto, the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 19th, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review any of the late files. Clerk, from the top, please. Item number one, City Hall closure, April 8th, 2024. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, response to resolution 24-149. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number three, winter snow plan for 2024-2025. Motion to send to community development. Seconded by Council Member Wyeth. Farrelletto. Item number four, amendment report itself of 84, 86 and 88, Laurel. Motion to approve items four through and including ten. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. A item number 11, certificate of appointment for senior housing policy specialist. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by council member Glombeck. A item number 12, cash flow report February 2024. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by council member Rivera. A item number 13, bridge washing, construction and inspection. Motion to send items 13 through 15, motion to approve items 13 through 15. Seconded by council member Wyatt. Item number 16, change order for Social Parkville House. Motion to approve items 16 through and including 33. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 34, appoint fire lieutenant. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 35, mobile food truck. Motion to send items 35 through 37 to legislation. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 38. Art beneficial agreement for Torrance Space Theater. Motion to approve items 38 and 39. Seconded by Councilmember Golombak. Item number 40, Board of Ethics meeting minutes. Motion to receive and file items 40 and 41. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 42, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt items 42 through 45. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Miscellaneous, item number 46, concerns Kisselton Expressway project. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 47, request for quarterly updates from BPS. Motion to send to education. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 48, strategies for improving school suspension policies after school programming. Motion to send to education. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 49, menthol tobacco concerns. Motion to send to community development. Seconded by Councilmember Glombeck. Item number 50, 2024 PRI implementation report. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 51, secret negative declaration. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 52, request for supporting a permit to cease fire in the Middle East. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Petitions, item number 53, special use 1735 hurdle for outdoor dining. Motion to send items 53 through and including 62 legislation and city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Submission list, civil service, item number one, notice of appointment. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Gullenbeck. Item number two, appoint detective. Motion to receive and file items two, three, four, and five. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number six, appoint assistant print slash mail room supervisor. Motion to approve item six and seven. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Finance, item number eight, City of Buffalo's American Rescue Plan Act spending plan. Motion is to receive and file items eight through and including 22. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Community Development, item number 23, Bicycle Pedestrian Advisory Board. Mr. President, some of these items, the next four, we are going to receive and file. We are going to have a replacement item coming in. This is just some housekeeping details for the committee. I didn't want anybody from the Bicycle Review Committee or Commission to think that we were doing anything beyond that. We're just cleaning up the items, and we're going to have some new ones that are put in. So the motion is to receive and file items 23 through and including 26. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 28, Buffalo Common Council request definitive timetable for the resumption of water floor duration. No, we skipped over one, 27. Item number 27, Bicycle Pedestrian Advisory Board for sidewalks, no removal resolution for 2024. This item we're going to recommit until we get the new item that comes in within the next week or so. Motion to recommit to community development, seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Item number 28, Buffalo Common Council requests definitive timetable for the resumption of water flotation. Motion to receive and file items 28 through and including 43. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Legislation item number 44, special use 218 Abbott for neighborhood shop. Motion to recommit. This we can actually approve. Motion to approve. Motion is to approve, seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 45, special use for 1735 hurdle for restaurant and tavern. Motion to approve items 45 through 48. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 49, local landmark 1443 Clinton Street. Motion to receive and file items 49 through 55. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 56, wholesale junk and scrap processor for 267 Morella. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number 57, support for New York State Senate Good Cause Eviction Bill. Motion to receive and file items 57 through 59. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 60, Seeker Nagdeck for 172 Goodell. Motion to recommit 60 and 61. Seconded by Council Member Nolkowski. Item number 62, petition to support sale of property to owner 65 Oakmont. Motion to receive and file items 62 through 71. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Education, item number 72, DMV report on auto tech program. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Resolutions, item number 61, wage fees for Juneteenth flag raising. Motion to receive and file items 61 through 63. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Did she approve? Motion to approve items 61 through 63. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Letter number 64, subpoena Charles J. DeBuckey regarding abandoned and blighted properties. Motion to adopt item 64 through and including 67. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I know that this is a rare and aggressive action, but in the city of Buffalo, we have a lot of needs. And one of them is housing. And for decades, I have somebody in my district who has owned multiple properties who have left them vacant and abandoned for decades. And at the last minute pays taxes so it's hard for the city to then take it from a foreclosure auction. The houses and the conditions that he's leaving them in have left people who are taking the boards and removing them and squatting in there, which is dangerous. I have seen it multiple times in my district where it takes one electric fire, it takes one hot plate, and the house goes up like that and takes out a half a street. I'm not going to sit by and allow it to happen. I have been actively working in housing court for a large part of my career on the council to help remediate blight. Now, I have talked about equity. I have people in my district that I sit in housing court who have to appear in court for gutters. let alone this person can abscond from the law for years, ignoring court and warrants. Now in Buffalo, we're a large living room, so word spreads pretty quick. So if I'm being fouled in Wegmans, I'm going to find out probably who that is. When I am in my district and I see someone driving quick and up behind me, I know who it is. And when I know you're coming back from vacation, I'm going to have a few friends that are going to see things on social media to know that you're back home. And the authorities in the inspections department know where this person lives. So he can go live in a nice part of the city with a big house, but then leave houses that he owns blighted in my district. I'm not putting up with it. So if this subpoena that the council has, The power to do, we're going to start actually elevating it and putting the pedal to the metal and to start using tools to remediate vacant and abandoned properties because no one deserves to live in dangerous conditions, let alone blight. So I'm going to notify the sheriff, I'm going to notify whoever else that I need to, to start holding people accountable. I have used multiple tools throughout my career, if it's not eminent domain, if it's not foreclosure. I'm not going to sit around in a circle of stupidity when we talk about for years, what should we do with these properties? What's the tools that we have? We have tools at our disposal. We need to start using them. And this is going to be a new one that I'm using now. I thank my colleagues for adopting this measure. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you. Just prior to the meeting, we were talking in my office about some legislation that was passed years ago by Council Member Fontana and I. That was then. which amended the New York State real property tax law ultimately to allow us to Take properties such like you're talking about if they're not, if the owner's not paying taxes after a certain amount of time. I have a resolution coming next meeting asking for an update on that policy and how we've been using it, how effective it's been to get some details on it, some data on it. So, again, if for one reason or another maybe it's not working at this particular properties, maybe it's something we have to look at amending down the road to do something to be, so it's more effective. So, again, we'll have that coming next meeting for an update on all that. Next item. Item number 68, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 154, Fair Housing. Motion to send items 68 and 69 to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Glombeck. Announcement of committee meetings. Councilmember Rivera. I'm sorry, can we revisit item 52 and miscellaneous? Motion is to revisit item number 52, seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Mr. Chairman, I think we're all aware of Humanitarian crisis that is happening in the Middle East without even taking a side in the dispute This is not about taking sides We've seen the visual pictures the suffering the human suffering that is happening there on a daily basis I had a group of people come to visit with me and asking for my support for a resolution I asked them to meet with each respective council members to seek an audience with them to file an item with the clerk's office it has been our experience that if somebody files an item with the clerk's office that would at least be given an audience to come in and voice their opinions I've given voices to people that have come to this council chambers to yell and scream at me and read prepared scripts. But that was their right. This is their people's house. I think they should be given an audience, a chance to come before the Common Council. I ask that we show decorum in the council chambers. But they should have at least an audience and we should be able to listen to them without taking sides in a dispute that's happening across the world. But I think we're all sensitive to the human tragedies that are happening there. I've asked to meet with every single council members. And then after you meet with the council members, if there's a resolution that we can file, that we would file it. Rochester passed their resolution this past week. I ask that we at least give them an opportunity to come before us and share with us what they're feeling, their concerns are as well. So I ask that we don't receive and file this, that we table it, allow the council members to meet with them. And if there is a resolution after consideration of all nine council members, then we can put something together. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think the thought process was that this wasn't a moving item. There was no actual resolution from a council member, so it was treated as more of an informational item. I know I have a meeting set up for later in the week to have this conversation. So if you wanted to file a resolution, we could take action on that. I would be glad to file a resolution after they meet with all the council members, and council members are happy with the language in the resolution. Yes. Okay. Council Member Wyatt. And Mr. Chair, I will support, Mr. President, I will support that as I've talked to the individuals that have come before me, I'm not taking a side, but when you see the human toll, that's where my concern is. And I think for us to ask in general for a ceasefire on all sides I think is appropriate because you see the loss of life, you see the children, you see the families, hunger, all those things taking place. So I will definitely sign on with you on a resolution once everyone meets, they meet with everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I don't think this has anything to do with personalities or politics or anything like that. It was just simply an item we can't take action on, adopt as a council. So if you wanted to file a resolution for the next meeting, we can take action on it then, and I would encourage you to please meet with all the council members between now and then. Thank you, Mr. President. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, April 9th, 2024 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, April 9th, 2024 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, April 9th, 2024 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development will be Tuesday, April 9th, 2024 at 2 p.m. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Mr. Nowakowski. Okay. Thank you, Mr. President. I am actually hosting an event with who we recognized earlier today, Arts for Learning for an event at the Broadway Market that begins at 10 o'clock in the morning. And there will be five to six workshops primarily targeted for pre-K through fifth grade. So come out to the Broadway Market and enjoy a lot of arts programming that's free and open to the public. Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you, President. The Mastin District, we have our monthly Mastin District Brunch, which is Saturday, April 13th from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Delavan Grider Community Center. We are also hosting a small business event workshop at the Northland Workforce Training Center on April 24th from 530 to 730. And as a reminder, Urban Fruits and Veggies with Ms. Allison Dahoney, we are partnering with her on a solar eclipse viewing. We will have glasses available for everyone that will be over at their property on Manhattan. And of course, that is April 8th. Majority Leader. Yes, I've received word from the administration. So Ellicott District is up first for Bulk Trash Day. However, that is on April the 7th, the day before the solar eclipse. So I've just received word today that it is being moved until after the eclipse. So we are going to be sending out word immediately. Please stay tuned for that. Additionally, calling all youth vendors. The Ellicott District is seeking youth vendors for upcoming youth extravaganza ages 6 through 17 years old. It'll be held in June. Entrepreneurs must have a merchandise purchase. or a service to offer applications can be emailed or brought to our office in room 1410 city hall by april the 24th or you can eat you can apply through email allocate district 1 at buffalonny.gov you can call us at 851-4980 Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to acknowledge council staff and the event that they put on this past weekend regarding money matters. It was well attended. Very, very good. Thank you again under the leadership of Mr. Montour. I look forward to it being throughout the city because, again, being the third portion of our side, we have to give people other tools to manage their dollar. And it was a great, well attended event. So, again, thank you, council staff and Jim Montour, Taysha, for your leadership. Thank you. Absolutely. Nothing else? Nothing else. Motion to adjourn. Motion is to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. You're welcome. You're welcome. My resolution.