Roll call. Council Member Faroletto. Council Member Fontano. Council Member Franzik. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. Key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum present. Before we stand, I'm going to ask the former Mastin District Council Member if he has a scout or maybe all of them come down and lead us in the pledge. Then that way they'll be on the floor after. And we will, after the pledge, we will take a photo of them before we do the memorials. And chapel before them. There's a chip out there. Come on, that's your son. There's more of them. I pledge allegiance to the, I pledge allegiance to the faith of America, and to the origin stands, one nation, univisible, with liberty and justice for all. Normally our procedure would be to go right to the chaplain, but while we have the Boy Scouts on the floor, I'm going to give the floor to the former council member of the Madison District and the former majority leader, Damone Smith. Well, what we want to do is really like to thank the common council. For the past 10 years, the council has always invested in urban scouting, and since that, we've had about six Eagle Scouts, don't we? The area, six of them so far, and there's like three more on its way. And it wouldn't have been possible without the help from the council. Every year the council supports Urban Scout, and they continue to do that. They let us come down here. They're working on their citizenship back today. And they go and see, and the council has always been supportive of the work that we've been doing at Urban Scouting. And we just want to take the time to say thank you, God, for the help that you've been doing. And then they feel like home when they come here. We know. We heard in our offices today. And so we worked on how government works today and how the branches of government interact with each other. And so they actually played it out in the council chambers. So they sat in your chairs and they sat in the council presence. And we had a reporter and we had a clerk and everybody else. And so they really enjoyed themselves. And we got a whole new back because the guys that used to come here before, they are 18 now. So we got a whole new batch of young guys ready to go and we got some Girl Scouts here today. And then also we got the leaders. The leaders are always wonderful. So we got Mr. Wiley, how long you been doing scouting Mr. Wiley? And then we got David Hayes over at the court office. How long you been doing scouting Mr. Hayes? Not that long? And then we have one of the scout moms, this Marquez mom, she's been, Miss Golden, she's been working with us with the guys, get where they're going. And we have a scout leader, I'm sorry. Sister Howe. Sister Howe, how long you been doing scouting, Sister Howe? 15 years, you know, been doing scouting. This is happening in the urban area. These are all scout troops, there's three scout troops from the city. Delaware, University, I think it's almost everybody's district that's in here today. I think all the councilmanic districts are here today. Madison, North, Niagara is here, Ellicott. we got a little bit of everything. And so if the scouts could come behind you and take a picture with the council members as the council members come up front and the scouts be in the back just to show our appreciation. And the Common Council has been nominated for the Good Citizenship Award on April 18th for all the investment that they have. All right, great. I need you to come in the back where the council president is. And then council members... If anybody's watching this, this is only because he was on the council. Have we broke all of the protocol and agenda is for that? No, no, no, no, no, no. You'll put us in dismissal. We got to get the leaders there. Appreciate you guys. And as the Boy Scouts are transitioning and our chaplain is preparing to come, If you all want to be seated, Council Members, I know we've been standing for a minute. We have to look in the rules and see if there's anything in the rules that we have to stand, but I don't think so. Our Council Chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. What? All right. President. President. We try never to follow children or pets. Wasn't that the thing we talked about earlier? They set the bar so high. Wonderful to have the next generation with us. Thank you, former council member. You got away with a lot. That was impressive, absolutely. So it was an interesting weekend for many of you who are part of Kirch tradition. You had seven-hour Friday services like many of you, Easter Sunday services. And then, Mr. Franczak's first time ever, Mr. Larry Schramma, The Polish guy who has the latest candies asked us to come to Polish Falcons for Tinkus Day. I'm still having trouble with hearing. The polkas were fairly aggressive. So it was quite a Tinkus Day celebration and made me appreciate in a whole new way some of the celebrations ethnically that happen throughout the city. We've been here since 1989. That was our first one. Amazing. The picture I have today is actually John 12, 24. One you're familiar with, perhaps, it says, unless the sea, the kernel, falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, many sea service comes from its death. Church of the Finish would qualify for that. Good Friday was anything but good. It was the darkest day for everybody who attended. But out of the darkness of Friday, a sea dying to Christ, comes the resurrection on easter sunday and everything changes it resets and we're still celebrating buffalo went into the ground and died really did it and some of you look back and you know the statistics and how sobering they were and what it looked like in terms of council members sat in these seats out of that depth The resurrection is coming. The seed that died in Buffalo is producing the new Buffalo. And the next generation, and you saw the next generation among us today, bow in prayer. The weekend we just completed, we call it Holy Week, but it really comes right into the week after Easter as well. We're blessed to speak of words, not of death, but of life. We're blessed to talk about next generation. Thank you. for the fairness and the faith of President Biden in the future, for which his time is here. Thank you. AMBASSADOR BIDEN III AMBASSADOR BIDEN III Amen. AMBASSADOR BIDEN III AMBASSADOR BIDEN III Thank you, sir. Thank you to our Boy Scouts, House of Members and Memorialists, House of Member White. AMBASSADOR BIDEN III AMBASSADOR BIDEN III Thank you, Mr. President. mourning the passing of a dear friend of my family, my mom's long, long friend who knew me before I was even born, Virginia Medley, passed suddenly. And so we are praying for her daughter, her son. She's a longtime employee for the Buffalo Board of Education and was looking forward to retiring. And she passed all of a sudden, so if we can keep her family in prayer. Yes, sir. Council Member Scanlon? Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please keep on our thoughts and our prayers, the family of Mr. Donald Colboys. Mr. Colboys was an institution, a baseball institution here in Western New York. at Bishop Diamond High School where he graduated in 1954 and later signed with the St. Louis Cardinals organization. After some injuries, he cut his career short. He went on to be a scout for the Philadelphia Phillies and also managed the Niagara Falls Pirates, the New York Penn League in 1978. But as if that wasn't impressive enough, his baseball career was just getting started. In 1979, he really solidified his imprint on the Western baseball scene when he convinced Eric Griffin at the time to bring professional baseball back to Buffalo. And he later managed the Bisons from 1979 to 1984. After that he also spent 25 years as a baseball coach at Canisius College, where he obviously impacted conference lives there. So again, he spent an incredible career throughout baseball, touching the lives of so many people, so many young men, and helping them grow through the sport of baseball. He's also, he will be missed by his wife, Eileen, Ellen, I'm sorry, and his six children and more than a dozen grandchildren. Thank you, sir. Any others? Hearing no other, we always remember our men and women who have given their life since our last meeting. One soldier since our last meeting has passed away in the fight for freedom, the suit of freedom, not only for the United States of America, but for those across this world. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. The motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 20th, 2018 are approved. Gentlemen, the late files are in front of you. Are there any objections to the late files that are in front of you? Seeing no objections to the late file, we will hear the entire agenda, not taking away your right to object to a late file that you may not have had the chance to review and to pause the meeting. We have one item that I believe you take mister president motion to take item 29 out of ledge out of order second by council member for your letter when I just asked that has been taken out so that our corporation counsel Give back to work in case there were questions about under 29 appoint chief information officer motion is to approve Motion is to approve second by councilmember. Why in the negative? Council member friends. I can thank you. All right from the top item one report of sale 1921 Bailey motion is sent to CD second by councilmember friends item to report a sale Genesee kill hopper center motion to approve items two through five second by councilmember Golomba on six transfer for 93, Michigan for 99 Michigan and Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 7, appoint telephone operator. Motion to send civil service. Seconded by Council Member Friar-Levitt. Item 8, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 9, change in contract. Correction, Clark Patterson. Motion to approve items 9 through including 15. Second by Council Member White. Item 16, appoint maintenance assistant. Motion to send to civil service items 16 and 17. Second by Council Member DeLumbe. Item 18, drug asset forfeiture. Motion to send to finance. Councilmember Wingo 19 permission to enter into canine training agreement motion to approve Second by council member friends. I am 20 a point detective motion to send the civil service items 20 through 23 Say my council member fear alone. I don't 24 food store license 1105 Broadway motion to approve saying my council member the Lombard I'm 25 food store license 143 Walden motion to send legislation saying my counselor fear Let him 26 food store license 139 Vermont motion to approve. Say Second by Councilmember Fenton. Item 27, property manager license Mayfair Buffalo Realty. Motion to send to legislation items 27 and 28. Second by... Councilman Freeland. Item 29, appoint electrical inspector. Motion to send civil service items 29 through 31. Second by council member Frenzel. Item 32, Luciano request for supplemental payment. Motion to approve items 32 through including 34. Second by council member Wingo. Item 35, commissioner transfer 493, 499 Michigan, 1214 Arsenal. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Freeland. Item 36, liquor license. Motion to receive and file items 36 through 38. Seconded by President Pro Tempore. Item 39, notice of appointment, council intern. Motion to adopt item 39 and 40. Seconded by Council Member Fidelin. Item 41, notice of appointment, seasonal flat. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Ferenczak. Item 42, notice of appointment, temporary provisional permit. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Miscellaneous items, item 43, district settlement proposal, city honors. Motion to send to education committee. Second by Council Member White. Item 44, Common Council Report Heat and Hot Water Concerns at Frederick Douglas. The motion is sent to CD. Second by Council Member White. Item 45, SEQR Neg Deck, 1081 Elmwood. Motion to adopt Item 45 and 46. Second by Council Member Glombeck. Item 47, regarding 503 Sterrin. Motion is sent to the Police Department. Seconded by President Prozor. Item 48, notice of proposed lead agency designation. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 49, taxicab ordinance amendment recommendation. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 50, advancing racial equality in public health. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 51, response to PBS chemical. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 52, University District Food Store license conditions. motion to send economic development permits an inspection say my cousin were white on 53 letter support liquor license new golden nugget motion to receive and file thank you my customer Wingo 154 229 elk legislation say second by president Putsum petitions item 55 you especially use 1854 hurdle motion to send to legislation and City Planning Board items 55 Through 58. Second by President Poto. Item 59, request to deny outdoor dining and live entertainment, 1488 Hurdle. Motion to receive and file. I'm a customer of Columbia. Committees. Civil service. Item 1, appoint senior auditor. Motion to approve items number 1 through 12. Thank you. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 13, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Finance Committee item 14, bond resolution, Shoshone Pool restoration. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 15, changing contract, sidewalk snow removal. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Please record. Council Member Fontenot, any others? Next item. Thank you. Community Development Committee, item 16, installation of parking meters at Canal Side. Motion to receive in files 16 and 17. Second by Council Member Freelander. Legislation Committee, item 18, food store license, 90 Lisbon. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 19, mobile food truck. 19 through 27 if there are no objections motion to approve my counselor Wingo item 28 75-88 Rachel Vincent Wade. That item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Fiora Little. Item 30, naming Bailey Bridges after Sheriff Thomas F. Higgins. 30 all the way through 33, motion to receive and file. Second by President Proctor. Item 34, City of Buffalo Parks to be tobacco free. Motion to receive and file. SECOND BY COUNCILMAN FRANTIN. ITEM 34A, NOTICE OF INTENDED COUNCIL'S LEAD AGENCY FOR 229 ALK SEQR. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FILE. SECOND BY COUNCILMAN FRANTIN. POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE, ITEM 35, INVESTIGATIONS ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE. POLICE OVERSIGHT. OH, POLICE OVERSIGHT. YES, SIR. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FILE ITEMS 35 THROUGH 40. SECOND BY COUNCILMAN WHITE. RESOLUTIONS, ITEM 60, FEE WAIVER, BUFFALO ZOO FACILITY UPGRADES. Motion to approve item 60 and 61. Second by Councilman Fairlawn. Item 62, dissolution of BNRC. Motion to send to CD. Um, Majority Leader, can we, um, adopt the resolves and send the main, remainder to CD, and I'll explain that. Motion to adopt the resolves and remainder to CD. Uh, thank you. Second by President Pro Temp. This is a agency, the Buffalo Neighborhood Revitalization Corporation, also known as BNRC. is actually a 501c3, I guess that was started years and years ago, has not had a meeting in over two years, has property and assets. And the only reason we bumped into this is because they recently, on October 23rd, sold a piece of property that landlocked another, almost landlocked another business into their property. And there's only one person that makes the decision. However, the city's real estate department has been tasked by this 501 to do the paperwork and the process. Yet it never comes to the common council. According to their minutes from two years ago, they assigned a former employee of the city to kind of be the real estate officer for the corporation that has not met in years without any oversight. And this land really should be transferred to the city of Buffalo. And there should never... So this resolution calls for the real estate department to stop the transactions because there's no way a city department... should be moving city or a 501c3's land and never reporting it to the County Council or no oversight at all. This resolution calls for the dissolution of BNRC. Now we don't have, according to Corporation Council for, or not Corporation Council, Council for Bureau, we really don't have the authority to make them dissolve. They are a private 501 that was kind of loosely connected to the city, I guess, in the past. But at the end of the day, we do have the ability to tell our real estate department, you are not going to be in the process of selling land that has no process at all. No process that we know of. So this calls for a study of these agencies. Just ask them to dissolve. Dissolved but the city should not be getting involved in this and Right now we just got a mess on our hands and almost no one who's still in the city It may be councilman friends that remembers on being our see but most people do not really remember that there's some board members They said they can't find half of the board members so that means the city or not the city being our see is selling property and nobody knows how and Who showed up on October 23rd, 2017 and just sold a piece of property? We don't know if it was advertised or anything. So this is serious and I don't want any more controversy. I don't want the city real estate department to have anything to do with this. No matter what their meeting, their last meeting, they assigned it. If they are not connected to the city, they don't have the authority to have the city of Buffalo selling their property. Council Member Rees? Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to make clear. Does ENRC hold assets, properties? Yes, they do. And do we know how many properties there are? Nope. Okay. Do we know where they're going to go in the city of Buffalo? Is it to the real estate department or to Bureau? Do we know where they're going to go to? Because that makes a difference, obviously. Karen Gordon, Assistant Corporation Counsel. From our last meeting that the Council President and I had with a representative of I think the real estate, it was believed that a property was supposed to be taken up by Bureau. but we really not certain as to what has happened since and where the property really lies in this whole situation. So because the prop, because this is, and I'm learning all this, the rest of it this morning, because it's a 501c3, totally separate from the city, but they had the office here in the city building, it's quasi-government. Office here in the city directs real estate to, basically you handle it through your process. Everything except one thing. Don't bring it to the Common Council. Because we haven't gotten anything in the land. I have the deed from property that was sold 2017, October 23rd. Had a constituent not come to me and said, how did you all sell this property here and not this property so I can back my truck out? And I told him we didn't. They were then informed by people in City Hall mistakenly, and I don't think this was done in any negative way. People just assumed. And they said, your council member approved it. Right. We don't get it because this agency is not a part of city government. Mr. President, I'm glad you brought that up because where it goes to also determines whether or not it comes back to the Common Council. Absolutely. If it goes to the real estate department, any sales would have to come back to us. If it goes to Bureau, I don't believe it would come back to us. Bureau, it will come to us for sale but not for the purchase of property. That's why we have Lakefront in front of us. Right. Right. You can say it right there, but you can... On the record. Karen Gordon, Assistant Corporation Counsel. So for the LDAs, I think, and the condemnation of property, it will come. So we will have that before us. But I don't think if it's on the Bureau that we would have a say in whether or not they sell it. So we wouldn't have a say on whether or not we sell it if it goes to the Bureau. That's why I asked where is it going if it's going to Bureau, if it's going to the real estate department. If it goes to Bureau and Bureau sells the land, we still have to approve it, right? That's why we're doing lake farm. For the condemnation. So, yeah, we don't know where it's going to go, and because it's a 501c3, they need to meet and decide what they're going to do with this land, and what they're going to do with the assets, and who's taking care of this property. So it's going to CD, where we adopted resolves, it's going to CD. Yes, so this would immediately say to real estate, cease and desist. You are not, you don't act on behalf of another agency and not go through the protocols of the city. Because then it just goes around what the process is that's checks and balances for the city. And then to have a former employee of real estate who signed off on the deed in 2017, right? It just doesn't look right, it doesn't smell right. I'm not saying that it's not right, but I think it's our job, I know it's our job to investigate matters. So we've asked for a study. We'll ask for a study first so that we get the data and the facts, because indeed, this all may be okay. But I've got constituents who don't feel it's okay, and I don't feel it's okay. Either me or... dissolve, move the properties, but as I'm told, there could be over 50 properties or more that are in residential areas. The rest of them are in residential areas, I was informed today. And so those properties need to be back on the tax rolls if people want to buy them and do something with those properties. Other than that, the question is, who's saying yes, who's saying no? This property was assessed at $6,000, over $6,000. It was sold for $3,000. Who gave that call? Nobody knows. Thank you, sir. Oh, did I skip someone? Let me see. Rich, do you know if they filed their yearly taxes for the 501c3? Has that been filed? I have no idea. This is why we're asking for in the resolution. What who's who who's doing what it was doing what we have absolutely no idea and because they're not a city agency Really? They don't even have to tell us they were a residential purchasing agent for beer essentially They would act on beer's behalf sometimes. I think Jay Duderick used to run the program over there I'm not mistaken when Jay was here and they would they would act as more of the residential side Budsy would do the the other side of it Well now there's no boards, right? Thank you, Jim. Next item. Item 63, fee waiver, parade of circles. Motion to approve items 63 and 64. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 65, home rule message, Adam Markell. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 66, letter from PBA President Evans. Motion to send finance. Seconded by Councilmember Scamble. Item 67, budget and personnel amendment assessment. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 67, budget and personnel amendment assessment. And 68. 68. All right. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 69, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. Motion for that item 69 and 70. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, April 10th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, April 10th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, April 10th, 2 p.m. Special Committee. Committee on Education, Tuesday, April 10th, 12 p.m. Any announcements? Any announcements? Can I start? Because I want to show that I'm not a sore loser. On Saturday, March 24th was the Stop the Madness basketball tournament. Congratulations to the Mastin and the University districts on winning the championship. But to all the young people and the first responders, our police and firing, even we had the ambulance there. Ambulance company who was there who worked with the young people. It was just wonderful So thank you to all and to all of the districts that participated Rich and I just ate most of the time but you know, it was fun. So thank you customer. Why thank you Just want to invite the residents of the University District off to our quarterly meeting which is going to take place on on April 21st Saturday at Olmstead school from 9 a.m. To 12 again. This is your opportunity You are empowered. We like to hear from you We want to know what type of issues are going on and this is your opportunity right at the Olmstead school on Suffolk Street Thank you. All right councilmember Wingo. I Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, our monthly stakeholders meeting and breakfast is in Maxton, 877 East Delavan at the Delavan Grider Center, where we share and disseminate all types and all kinds of information that's helpful and empowering. It's educational and it's inspiring. as we hear all the great things that we're doing at Masson, as well as what we're doing for the people in other districts as well. So you can come to Masson Breakfast, even if you're not a Mass tonight. We'll accept everybody. We accept folk from Ellicott. We accept folk from universities. Hey, hey, watch it. Even Niagara, we accept folks from everywhere, all the parts of Buffalo. Come on down to the Mastin Stakeholders Meeting and Breakfast. It's a great fellowship, fun food for the family and friends. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Alright, just had a wonderful dingus day. Betty Jane Grant had it up live, so I was able to watch the whole, almost most of it on that day. She was manning a booth at the Broadway Market for the Board of Elections, registering people, and so the East Side was poppin'. Yeah. I got some of them friends that say it was poppin'. It was poppin'. next to me he got him talking about his profit next thing you know you're gonna have one of those suits instead wait wait wait next thing you're gonna say it was lit that's right any other announcements uh councilman revere second by councilman fair letter we adjourned all right