Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney. Here. 11 present. Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on August 2, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those no. Motion passes. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on August 9, 2021?
 Second. We have a motion, we got a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on August 16th, 2021? Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed?
 All right. Is there a motion to approve the general proceedings for the special city council meeting held on August 23rd, 2021? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. We have no proclamations this evening. And at this time, I would...
 Move to our public speakers. We do have four public speakers this evening Just want to remind the public speakers that you're allotted three minutes to address the City Council when you Hear a somewhat obnoxious cell phone ring. I'd ask that you close your comments up There is a microphone on the back left and back right? It looks like this evening. So first public speaker this evening is mr. John tack Brantley and
 Good evening, Mayor Tom McNamara, all the persons in our services of Rockville, Illinois. Welcome out in my shoe. The delivery came out on May 10th. If I could be you, if you could be me for just one hour and we could find a way to get inside each other's mind. If you could see you through my eyes instead of your own ego, I believe you believe
 we'd be surprised to see that you have been blind. Walk a mile in my shoes. Just walk a mile in my shoes before you're abused, criticized, and accused. Then walk a mile in my shoes. Now we spend the day throwing stones at one another because I don't think or wear my hair the same way that you do.
 may be common people but I'm your brother and when you strike out you are trying to hurt me it only hurts you lord have mercy in Chicago 65 people were shot this Labor Day weekend six of them have been killed at least eight of the victims was children including a four-year-old boy who was killed in a shootout and wood line how many was domestic violence let's look right here in Rock
 the number of people, most of them young people that have been killed by domestic violence or overdose. Jennifer Huck, Jennifer Simmons, 19 years old, pregnant. She was in my program, was killed by her boyfriend that was 22 years old. Miss Young, 25, living in Loves Park, killed by her straight boyfriend. He was 24 years old, domestic violence.
 The security guy that worked the South Main grocery store on South Main Street killed in his backyard, a vendetta. The 17-year-old girl that was shot in the back in fairgrounds.
 She was in our program. The young dude that shot her, he had just got shot two months ago several times. What is he doing with a gun? Our youth have more guns out here on the streets than they have at Walmarts or any of these stores that sell guns. And so the same thing is with drugs. So let me get back at domestic violence. Why come domestic violence is not reported?
 Ask the police department. Ask the state's attorney department. Ask Brother John Tack why domestic violence is not reported. For the simple reason that DCSF only deal with the victims. DCSF do not deal with the cause, like the teenager that's doing the abuse. They don't deal with the boyfriend. They don't deal with the baby daddy. They don't deal with the husband.
 And 9 out of 10 ask the police and the state's department. How many times these here females go back to that same abuser? How many of these people don't report their child abuse because they don't want their kids to be taken from child abuse? I have been blackballed. I'm going to use myself for example. We brought. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Thank you, sir. Our next public speaker this evening is Brenda Lynn Langdon. This ain't your night to nightmare.
 So I'm here because I wanted to ask you a question. Do you remember a few months ago I had a meeting with you and Rhonda and she told you that I chaired several boards with the NAACP? Did she tell you one of those boards was housing? I didn't think she did. So here's my issue. Your appointment of Maureen Kirschman, she's not qualified. I did the background check on her. Why would you put a white woman overseeing a bunch of black people? This is bad optics for you.
 And I'm sick and tired of this administration and this city disrespecting the NAACP. Rhonda is the least of your problems because you poked the bear and now the bear's awake. And I'm gonna do every means legally to make your life miserable and your appointee tell her don't print any cards because she's not gonna be on that job loan. So I'm gonna tell you what I'm gonna do. You appoint that woman, I'm gonna make sure I go to everybody in house and make sure they're registered to vote.
 And we're going to vote you out. I'm going to quote my Republican friends. You forget how you got here. I'm not playing with you anymore. Don't look at that clock. I got plenty of time. So let me make your day even worse. I'm also the labor chair. And I got a copy of your mayor's approved vendors list. This is a joke.
 As you can see, it's color coded. I went through every one of these businesses. Some of them are saying that they're LLCs, and I went on to the state of Illinois site, and they're not. They're saying that they're female, and they're not. Prairie Street Brewery is a prime example. You need to clean this up, because the next stop is this and the school board. I'm not playing with you in this tomfoolery, pun intended.
 Don't keep giving stuff to eliminate racism 815. They cannot relate to me. They don't know what it's like to be a black woman. They don't know what it's like to be a black child. Somebody come and call them the N word. You can't understand that because you've had white privileges.
 And I'm tired of playing with y'all and I'll make sure every one of y'all voted out. Don't let your girl be up there. I'm telling you. And the next time you want to have a conversation about who you're going to point, y'all better have the NAACP. Oh, wait a minute. That's me. Playtime over with told you didn't need that clock. Excellent. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Reverend Earl Dotson senior. The Bible, whatever your tasks work heartily as serving the Lord and not men.
 Knowing that from the Lord you receive the inheritance as your reward, you are serving the Lord Christ. For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. Just yesterday we celebrated Labor Day, honoring honest work, as did God himself, also placing Adam in the Garden of Eden to work it. Our African forebears did honest work.
 But wrongdoers who mistakenly thought they owned them ignored the biblical injunction that a workman is worthy of his meat or his hire. It is wrong for a man to own another. Our African forebears did honest work for centuries without pay. This was wrong. For Christ is all and in all. You are all one in Christ.
 It seems forever for this teaching to permeate the mind of wrongdoers, conditioned by greed and other social pathologies, as well to penetrate the ponderous social and economic order that did not want and does not want change. The wrongdoer sabotages this dynamic of the liberated person by despising, hating, depriving him or her of recognition in the world of free person, callously attempting to withhold justice.
 Just this past week, I and some supporters met with the Director of Community Development for this city to discuss the equitable distribution of money flowing to the city, especially the American Rescue Fund.
 As the only indigenous CDC with a plan focused on West Side Rock for revitalization, we emphasize one important aspect of our plan, preparing skilled workers America greatly needs. America is losing billions in economic activity because of an over-reliance on foreign suppliers, impacting national security.
 Instead of being met with enthusiasm and gratitude, we encounter gross ineptitude that will not go unnoticed here, in Springfield, and in Washington, D.C., especially the Treasury Department. For any black person here, especially those representing Westside Rockford, and not advocating for equitable distribution of these and other monies, you are a fraud and should resign, for you dishonor your African forebearers, being complicit in the continuing enslavement of our citizens.
 I close with this from the Black National Anthem. Lift every voice and sing till earth and heaven ring. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. Michael O'Toole. Good evening, Mayor McNamara and city council members. I've lived here in Rockford since summer of 2007 at Mulford Park apartment complex.
 Our management office recently informed residents that some parking signage had been posted over the years in error by the City of Rockford's Public Works Department. I'm not upset with the Rockford Police Department in having issued tickets for illegally parking in relation to the signage that has since been removed. But during that period of time, the city collected revenue that it didn't legally...
 deserve to receive due to its error. So I'm asking the City Council to do the moral and ethically right thing, to go through the City of Rockford Police Department's records, your own records for fines that were paid due to improper no parking signage on the streets of Gramercy and Bancroft Court in Mulford Park apartment complex. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, moving on and Mr. O'Toole, if you'll wait, Ms. Haggerty looks like she's looking to catch up with you. Okay, next we will move to petitions and communications. As I mentioned earlier, we have no proclamations. We will go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding the ratification of membership into the Northern Illinois Council of Governments.
 North COG and Illinois not-for-profit corporation this item has been referred to Planning and Development Committee Thank you. Next we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee alderman Rose. I
 Thank you, your honor. We have four items. Item number one is the memorandum from Megan McNeil, assistant city attorney regarding the second quarter report from April to June 2021 on liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement referred to codes and regulations. Number 2, the traffic commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on September 8th, 2021 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting.
 On September 27th, 2021 on item 3, a memorandum from Martin bloom project manager. And permits and special events regarding an upcoming special event for the edge broke health and wellness fair.
 Referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And then item four, a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a resolution for authority to intervene on the 2020 property tax appeal case for Hampton Mercury Investment Company, located at 6905 East State Street and 6943 East State Street. Referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Alderman Durkee.
 He's in the hallway. Oh. I can get him. Sorry, I thought maybe one of the public speakers scared you, but she was really yelling at me, so you shouldn't have been frightened. So Alderman Frost, we're at petitions and communications. We are on C, finance and personnel. Number one is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, director of public works regarding the application award acceptance and commitment of local funds for the 2021 Department of Commerce economic opportunity.
 Tourism Attracts Grant Program for Exterior Facade Improvements to the Coronado Performing Arts Center. Number two is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a city combat agreement for Buckbeak Creek Bank Stabilization. Number three is a memorandum from Jamie Rottenwater, Superintendent, regarding the repeal of Ordinance 2018-111-20.
 Oh for the lead service line replacement loan program and number four is a memorandum from Brooke Benoit assistant city attorney regarding fine reduction requests for 3012 school street and 411 Willard Avenue all four of these items will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee Thank You alderman frost. So we've done the public speakers. So we'll move to a public hearing this evening Alderman Rose Thank You Your Honor
 Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5 slash 11-91-1, a public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed right of way vacation. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on August 17th, 2021.
 That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, September 7th, 2021 at 530 p.m. in council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall, located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed right-of-way vacation of a portion of Alpine Road adjacent to 1670 North Alpine and a portion of Center Drive within Highcrest Center.
 are there any questions or comments from the council members on the vacation are there any questions or comments from alderman i'm sorry what's the request why they're asking for the vacation this is the beefrew at the higher crest shopping center i'm sorry i didn't understand it this is the beefrew at the high crest shopping center we approved several weeks ago all right thank you yep so for parking lot drive-through or something
 Is it for drive-thru, the reason why they need the right-of-way? Director Saunders. Thank you, Mayor. This is actually for ingress-egress to the parking lot. It was established as right-of-way, so we're actually vacating that right-of-way for the development. Thank you. Thanks, Sons. Any further questions from council? Okay. Are there any questions or comments from the public? Okay. Seeing that there are no questions, this hearing is now closed. Thank you, Alderman Rose.
 Next up, we have an information-only item. It's a code compliance discussion, and we have Director Nick Meyer as well as Director Carl Franzen here to discuss this with us.
 Thank you, Your Honor, and thank you, Council. We wanted to have this discussion related to our code enforcement efforts and code questions that have come up over the course of the summer. I know that many new council members have realized how this is a quality of life issue for your residents and your wards.
 and uh... we just want to uh... have open discussion regarding uh... the efforts that we do take the processes that we have our statutory authority and then uh... answering questions that you have i do believe that uh... you know code enforcement
 As we define it is a critical aspect to how we do neighborhood improvement and fight light Increased property values and that the city Really should be commended for the aggressive efforts that it's taken utilizing statutory authority in some very proactive high-profile
 you know blight reduction efforts however the Certainly the basic run-of-the-mill for the lack of the better term code enforcement complaint that our Constituent is going to complain about You know if we don't have compliance certainly can be seen as something that's not being addressed while it is so certainly the first aspect of it is that
 building our neighborhood stabilization, building our code enforcement team, and that is cross-departmental. Certainly many of you engage with my staff. Jessica Schaffer is your one point aspect for anything code related or property standards related.
 her you know I'm sure that everybody has been in contact with her she may not be addressing the issue she may have one of our inspectors addressing the issue but we have a one-stop shop to make sure that we are internally cataloging all the complaints that are coming in prioritizing giving our capacity as well as making sure that we're responding to all complaints that do come in so certainly
 The neighborhood stabilization officer, which is Jessica's title, and then she oversees our actual code enforcement inspectors. Those are the ones who are assigned to your wards out there responding to complaints that come in through our portal, through you directly, or through citizen complaints.
 and actually issuing the violations. But we also have our property standards inspectors. Those are members of our construction services teams that are specifically focused on building
 What is wrong with the building as it relates to building codes are there unsafe living conditions? Those are the ones that are actually condemning the properties And then they're also going to be engaging with other departments certainly our CSOs through the police department Depending on the situation human services should we have? relocations that need to occur the fire department especially after fires or should there be a
 uh... egress uh... concerns related property and then eventually
 or always in tandem, but eventually our legal department, should we need to actually go through the hearing process or invoke additional measures through circuit court or what have you. But, you know, we are, I believe, recognized. We've been pursuing aggressively a strategy of blight reduction over a number of years.
 through not only our efforts but in conjunction with consultants through Center for Community Progress and we will be participating later, actually beginning of next year in a vacant property leadership institute along with four other communities in Illinois because one, we have the demand.
 We are recognized as being innovative throughout the state and really innovative throughout the country in how we're trying to address blight and through these issues. But we want to make sure that we're following best practices, and we understand that best practices, you know, have a process that is certainly fair, that, you know,
 provides that property owners and and Individuals have all access to their rights and due process that's efficient that you know runs These gets our goal of compliance in the most efficient manner And it's aimed at compliance. It's not aimed at generating revenue for the city It's aimed at neighborhood improvement and so that's how we try to build the processes that we have internally and it's how we are
 try to work with our property owners on those case-by-case basis. I'm going to turn it over to Nick. Nick will talk more about some of the more legal aspects of our authority and how we run through the hearing process, and then certainly happy to answer additional questions at the end.
 Sure. As Carl mentioned, you know, the whole process we follow, it really is a compliance-driven process. And one of the big reasons is at the end of the day, we are discussing property rights. We're discussing what a person can and cannot do with their own property. So it's not our intent and really a successful way to go about it is to be punitive in nature.
 The general rule is that every property owner has a right to use their property how they see fit, in the manner that they want to use it, except only when restraint is necessary to secure the common welfare. That's what the Supreme Court has said.
 uh... what that means is an impracticality is it can last the state uses its police power to make sure the property is not used in such a man of this detrimental or harmful to the public wealth health and welfare so it that's where we get all of our all of our authority really derives from that one principle includes over zoning all of our ability to uh... tracking abate nuisances are building in fire codes uh... all our sanitation codes comes for the principle that there's a
 everybody can use the property they see fit except for when it could potentially harm public welfare or people so all that derives from that it actually flows from the state through through the municipalities and will go into the various statutes so all of our ability to fight blight deal with all of these issues comes from the state there especially as a non-home municipality we have to have specific authority to address this specific
 problem and where it gets dense and problematic is there's one statute for each individual type of scenario which creates different due process that we have to follow some more strict some less strict depending on the property involved and the nature of the action the city's going to take which is problematic for some of our property owners when you know it takes seven days to do one thing it takes 21 days or two years to do another thing it's all very
 very statutory driven very process driven oftentimes confusing on something that i think check the statute our horses for almost every time a problem comes up was a statute say because each is different is is country for all finding out now the basic of all quickly through the basic statutes that we used to give you an idea of all of the different rules that apply uh... the first one is the only demolition statute that's our overall arching ability to school to court to seek in order
 either ordering a property owner to repair their building to good order if it's dangerous and unsafe,
 or to allow the city of Rockford to do it or to demolish that property that's what you see when we go to court on big at the bigger the Essex properties the nursing home on North Main Street we're using the demolition statute on that and that has specific requirements we have to meet notice requirements it's a long process we try to avoid that if we can because it takes a number of months if not years to do
 we also have the ability to uh... petition to have a court uh... declare property of being in under certain circumstances those the properties that we all know or empty that are not owned by the city or any other entity becoming problem properties may be holding real for you know no windows that we can sort of sit there and stare at them and watch them uh... deteriorate we actually worked with uh... a statewide uh... task force to amend the abandonment petition to allow us to get properties
 fat in our hands faster or into the hands of our
 LAND BANK FASTER. IT TOOK ABOUT TWO OR THREE YEARS FOR US TO GET IT. WE ACTUALLY JUST SENT IT INTO LAW IN JULY. SO WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO USE THAT A BIT MORE WITH THE LAND BANK. AND ESSENTIALLY, LIKE I SAID, WHAT THAT DOES IS IT ALLOWS US TO INTERCEPT A PROPERTY, GET IT INTO THE PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNER FASTER. BUT AGAIN, THERE'S NOTICE REQUIREMENTS. WE HAVE TO TRACK DOWN WHO THE OWNER IS. OFTEN TIMES, WE DON'T KNOW WHO THEY ARE. THEY'VE LEFT. IT'S A DECEASED PERSON. YOU HAVE TO TRACK DOWN HEIRS. IT'S INCREDIBLY LABOR INTENSIVE.
 We also have specific statutory authority to secure and enclose abandoned residential property, secure commercial property, to establish our zoning ordinances, our building codes, to remove garbage, debris, and graffiti, to order and remove cutting of buildings.
 weeds, grass, trees, and bushes. And the sort of catch-all is our ability to define and abate public nuisances. All of those are our statutory authority to act. So everything we do as a city has to fall under the parameters of one of those standards,
 statutes our biggest one that we are able to be more creative is our ability to within reason define and abate nuisances but even with then you know our specific due process requirements that we have to give when I say due process it's the basics of due process is if you own a piece of property the ability to have a hearing and be heard it can test any allegations against you whether that be a fine whether that be a demolition whether it be any code enforcement
 or whether you have a property or I'm sorry a vehicle or move from your property all of that requires a city to follow certain due process requirements which is you know can be anything from a 48-hour notice to a full-blown court case we do have some authority though to take action quickly and not go through the courts depending on the situation
 And usually that comes along with our ability to cut weeds, remove garbage, secure or board up properties after a fire or if they're just dilapidated, to secure them so they're safe. In certain circumstances to demolish properties, usually that comes when there's a fire. We have some ability to our code officials, emergency authority, to demolish properties after a fire.
 and at times to remove inoperable vehicles from private property but under each of those circumstances the statute requires different notice the city has to give in order to take the action for example removing inoperable vehicles is not an easy process right we have to give notice to the the vehicle owner it's got to fit the definition of inoperable it's set by statute that's in pretty burdensome essentially really has to be proof that
 that this vehicle cannot really be moved under any circumstances. We have to give that person an opportunity to have a hearing in front of our hearing officer. If they fail to appear for that or successfully contest that, then we have to go get an administrative warrant from a judge to remove that property because of the nature of the vehicle being more important than some other piece of property.
 And then we also have the ability to recover costs in those circumstances when we have to take action by leaning the property where we make sure we get paid or reimburse hopefully upon sale of the property. In some circumstances we'll go over our ability to enforce leans through foreclosures.
 Real quickly, we'll go through the administrative warrant process. There are times when people have asked, you know, my neighbor's backyard is, you know, there's all sorts of junk in there that we can't see. Or inside the four walls of the property, it may be a hoarder situation or some other horrible code situation where their children are living there. We can't just, we as a city cannot just go into the property. What we have to do in those situations is seek an administrative warrant.
 because the Constitution prohibits, the Fourth Amendment prohibits us from unreasonably searching anybody's property or removing any property, including vehicles.
 pretty much any title property, from a person without going through the courts first. So we've used the administrative warrant process relatively recently in two circumstances that I can think of. One where we knew a property owner, a property was condemned, somebody was living there. You could tell somebody was living there. So the code violation being somebody's in there doing something wrong. And when we went in there with our police and our code enforcement staff, we recovered –
 essentially a cache of weapons, explosives, knives, I don't know how many guns we recovered, but a lot of them. But it was only by going through that administrative warrant process. We've done it when we've had a commercial property, but we thought that was an abandoned commercial property, was actually improperly storing toxic chemicals. But again, we couldn't just sort of go in and stop it. We had to go through this court process.
 As far as I can tell, when we've given this presentation at other municipalities, Rockford's really one of the only municipalities that I'm aware of that uses this administrative warrant process as much as we do. We make sure we follow specific guidelines that legal sets up to do it because we want to make sure we're comporting with all of the constitutional requirements. We have used it successfully in the past, but there are, again, separate hurdles we have to get through in order to...
 to use it successfully.
 What you guys may be more familiar with is our code hearing unit, our code hearing process, which is the administrative hearings we have at City Hall every Wednesday and then typically every Friday with hearings as well. That's actually a specific statutory requirement or I guess enabling statutes allows us to have that administrative hearing unit. Not every municipality has it. Most of the cities our size have them, but not every city has it. It allows us to try to attack some of these problems.
 faster than having to go through circuit court. So we've established a code hearing unit. It's run through the community development department, and also has legal representation to essentially prosecute these cases as though they're little mini trials, mini court cases.
 Through that process, we can achieve compliance. The hearing officer can order properties to come into compliance, give specific deadlines for that to happen, but also as a last resort, issue fines or order fines that we can then enforce.
 through the courts, through different state systems, in order to, again, achieve compliance. We do have, I think Alderman Logan asked to touch on our fine reduction policy. So when we go through these code processes, we do, we can rack up,
 fines pretty high. Fines range anywhere from $50 per day per violation up to a maximum of $750 per day per violation. So if you have a really dilapidated property with a lot of code problems, you can really start to see higher fines. And so when I came in, or this
 you saw a lot of really high fines and what we found was that really doesn't drive compliance when you get to a fine it's so much you have a 350 000 fine on a property worth eight thousand dollars your chance of enforcing that and collecting are not that great
 So what we've done more recently is have more reasonable fines that we know are collectible, that people are willing to either can pay or that it's more real to them. So a $1,000 fine may drive compliance on if a roof is collapsing as opposed to a $60,000 fine. People are just going to walk away from that.
 Sometimes, we actually have one on the agenda today, somebody will come into compliance, have a $3,000 or $4,000 fine and want the city to reduce that fine. We have a policy to do that, allow staff to go down from, reduce the fine from say $10,000 to $1,000 on a property that's in compliance and then down to $2,500 if a property is not in compliance.
 If the property owner wants to go below that, they need to seek the alderman's approval. There's a form that they can submit. They need to talk to the alderman about that, and that actually requires city council approval.
 So we have one of those coming through in a property that's in Alderman McNeely's Ward that is in compliance now that we'll be seeking a reduction. And we have in the past on occasion gone all the way down to zero, again, because the purpose is compliance not to be punitive. So that's our code hearing process in a nutshell. At the end of the presentation we'll talk about how we take cases from code hearing into court when we, you know, we've reached our limit in our administrative process.
 I'll turn it over to Carl now to go through our process of enforcement. So the good news is that 95% of the cases that we process, you don't hear about. They go through this process and the process works. It's the 5 or 10% that you hear about that we're here to discuss. But in the vast majority of times, we're responding to a complaint, whether it's from you, the alderman, the neighbor, a community member.
 you know somebody who reported it and neighborhood inspection specialists will go out and do an inspection and we attempt to contact the individual that's that's responsible so in cases where it's a tenant issue where this is a rental property and perhaps it's a garbage cans that have been left out for all week or
 we'll attempt to knock if it's a resident or if it's a landlord issue, and we have that landlord's contact through our rental registry.
 we will address through that as well. But we go out and inspect and we have to verify, is there a violation to our ordinance or not? And oftentimes it's not a violation or by the time we get out there, it has been corrected. We don't determine, we don't have the evidence that we could bring through our court process that a violation has incurred and we would close it out as unfounded. However,
 Our goal being compliance, we attempt to speak to the property owner or the tenant to make sure that that's resolved. However, we still will issue an inspection report letter.
 create a case and submit that to the property owner identifying the violation that has reportedly occurred and the date that they would need to be brought into compliance in and after that date then we would re-inspect for compliance if it is compliant at that time we would close it out no fines it is done the
 If it is not compliant, then we would issue the violation report and the summons for our hearing process. They are then arraigned, come to hearing,
 And then we are willing, more than willing, again as Director Meyer said, our goal is compliance on some of the more complicated issues, something more complicated than mowing grass. We are certainly willing to work with a property owner at a timeline for coming into compliance and how that might look.
 The compliance is the goal, and should they not be able to come into compliance or should they not appear to our hearing process, then they're issued FDO, a findings decision order that would specify the ordinance violations as well as the applicable fines that are associated with that.
 yeah and then we record that against the property um nick alluded to uh fine reductions or or waiving liens that city council has done to facilitate the transaction of property we certainly encourage that we don't want the fines to hold up a good development or neighborhood improvement
 However, it does give us, you know, that stick aspect. We want to have carrots and sticks. It does give us that stick aspect to gain compliance in the long haul. So along with that, just to make sure everybody's clear, there are –
 There's a difference between a lien we put on a property and an FDO or fine decision order that's recorded. A lien is when we actually have out-of-pocket costs, a mowing lien, a board up lien, a demolition lien. Those are things we record against the property because the taxpayer has actually paid out costs. A FDO is essentially it's either an order to repair, it's a record that the property is not in compliance, and it's a fine that's issued as essentially a penalty for being out of compliance.
 One of the reasons we record the FTOs is because they run with the land. So if somebody wants to come in and buy the property, they are on notice that they are purchasing a property that has a fine attached to it that they then would be responsible to pay and that it's out of compliance and that the new property owner is going to have to bring the property in compliance.
 It helps in two regards. One is it can require the previous owner to actually fix up the property before it's transferred. It also stops the cycle of, you know,
 bad property owners from continuing to purchase and sell properties. You have some property owners who will take a property knowing there is a fine in FDO on the property and they don't care because they know they're not going to address it. And they may not understand and they soon will realize when they go to sell it that
 they are responsible for it doesn't matter for having five or you know six seven years ago it's there it's their responsibility before they transfer the property they know only took control this property they've got to fix it up or they can't sell it or they can sell it and the next guy's got to fix it up
 And we recently have been running into that is, you know, we've got calls and complaints that I have this fine or this order on this property that's five or six years old. I didn't own the property when it happened, but, you know, I can't close. Well, you know, if the property, if the problem's still there, you need to fix it. It's not going to go anywhere or the news guy's got to fix it. And I don't really care who does it, but somebody's got to do it and it shouldn't be the taxpayer that's doing it.
 So when we run into a problem, when those 95% of cases that are solved here sort of filter into the 5% that don't, we have to look to the circuit courts. There are other ways to solve our problems. The first one is the statute allows us to take that FDO to circuit court and enforce either the fine against the property owner or have the judge enter an injunction or an order
 requiring the person to comply with what the hearing officer did. The reason that would be important is a circuit court, a judge has the ability to hold somebody in contempt of court. So this is what we saw happen with the Essex property. There was a fine but also an order, a circuit court order requiring the property owner to do something and he didn't do it, didn't comply with the judge's order. And in that case, the circuit court judge said he's going to, she was going to fine him in contempt.
 uh fine him two hundred thousand dollars and issue a warrant for his arrest for contempt of court and that's ultimately what got us across the goal line with that property we can also file as alluded to earlier we can file suits to demolish or repair either asking a court to order the property owner to fix up the building or demolish it or in the alternative allowing the city of rockford to take control of that so if you look at recently at the elks building for example it took us
 I mean, two or three years to get through the code, the court process, but ultimately we just this month got an order. The circuit court judge ordered that property owner to either bring their property into compliance or demolish it by January of 2022. And if that doesn't happen, then well.
 Either the city can step in and do it ourselves or likely what happened is we would ask the judge to Open discovery to find out if that property owner had the financial means to take care of themselves And just ignored the court's order which is what people tend to do
 We can also foreclose our lien. So if we recorded an FDO against a property or if we recorded an out-of-pocket lien and it's a property that we think is viable and we can sell it and make our money back, the city can go through the foreclosure process, much like a bank does, and title that property and then sell it to make ourselves whole. We haven't done that that often because a lot of these properties simply don't have the value to do it, but we have on occasion been selective in foreclosing properties and taking title that we think
 are going to make us whole and get the taxpayer off the hook for any out-of-pocket expenses.
 We can also pursue personal judgments in debt collection like you would with a credit card or any other ability to pay. If there's a fine owed, we can try to enforce that through a small claims process. We have done a whole lot of that, especially due to COVID right now simply because we don't want to be going, you know, being punitive and going after people that may at this point in time not have the financial means to do it.
 We also have the ability, again, to file for abandonment petitions, which we've done with some success, and that's, again, having the property declared abandoned and then turned over to either a private property owner or the land bank. We also are going to look at doing something that's even, I guess, more sort of unique, and that's apply for receiverships.
 And that's similar to an abandonment petition where we would seek a court appointment of a trustee or a receiver for a property. And typically that's somebody who has the means and wherewithal to fix up the property and get it back into working order and profitable on the tax rolls, and then their out-of-pocket expenses they have in that process, they can apply to the court for recalled certificates
 that they can foreclose on again like a bank and then ultimately take title to that. We've done that in one or two properties with some success. We're in the process right now of developing RFP to try to get a team of contractors that we may be able to lean on for properties that are not yet to the point where they need demolition, but a receiver may be appointed if somebody is allowing their property to become dilapidated and just refusing to bring it into compliance and we need a court decision.
 to say all right well then sorry mr property owner if you're not going to you know take care of your property we're going to appoint this person to do it for you
 The last issue I think we have done yet is we can at times assign our liens to other property, other property, not holders, sorry, other interested parties. So if we get a judgment lien against a property, we can assign that lien to a developer and have them go through the foreclosure process, which would allow us to save on costs because the foreclosure process is lengthy and it is costly.
 So that is pretty dense. That's the end of our presentation. And I guess, you know, there's not a good way to...
 To do this easy, I think the point is that code enforcement and dealing with property owners is not one size fits all. It is not easy, and it takes a whole team of people to do in our departments. And so when we latch onto a property, it's sort of an all-hands-on-deck issue because at different times for different properties, you need different people involved. And so it takes a lot of communication, a lot of hard work, but when it pays off, it really pays off well.
 and uh just uh you know chime in on that you know that the team that is actually out there on the street we have made a concerted effort to put more resources into those five percent those those problem cases where they take problem solving it takes coordination with the different departments within the city it takes a lot of engagement with property owners or landlords to figure out and so
 Our neighborhood inspectors, they're out there doing tens of inspections a day in their geographies. And we are going to propose that we add a fourth inspector in 2022. Thank you.
 but i will you know specify that they do a fantastic job at responding to complaints as they come in uh... what is that five percent ten percent that requires additional effort and that's why we created uh... couple years ago these neighborhood stabilization officers at where they're not responding to the grass complaints that come in on a daily basis they're dealing with the that five percent that we know are an issue in our organic
 to require a strategy to come into compliance with and so certainly appreciate you know mayors and and city council support as we've been really directing resources toward those uh toward those efforts
 First thank you for the presentation Leadership and work both of you have done but also as you rightly Mentioned director friends and both their teams do an incredible amount of work and we're fortunate for all the work that they do I can also after reviewing that presentation see why it was a sold-out presentation at the Illinois Municipal League in 2019, so Until they're still telling stories about it
 They are still telling stories about it. That's right. Okay. Other woman, Hoffman, has a question. Thank you. I know that our staff is really low, and I know that all of this is very complex. My issue is that I have some really problematic staff.
 properties and all I get is closed. Closed in one day, closed in two days. I still see the property just as it was when I reported. I don't know what to say to anybody other than it's closed. I have one that has raccoons living in the east troughs and they're not boarded up. The holes aren't boarded up or anything. There's nothing been done. The weeds got cut but the raccoons are still there
 I have another one that's so overgrown that most people don't even know there's a house on the property. And I'm not hearing what we're doing about that. And so, you know, everything is little one-liners, three words. Is there any way on these bigger issues that we can get something that says taking them to something? So I have something to reply to the residents when they say,
 well they mowed the lawn and that's it but the weeds are still 12 feet high around the house so that's a great question and as uh director meyer alluded to uh it obviously depends on what the uh what the actual complaint was um
 But number one, always want to plug the best way to report any problem is through our service portal online. And if you create an account, put in the complaint, you can track that through the process so you can see where it is through the inspection, through the close. But your question is more so, it gets closed.
 and yet the issue is still there, whether perceived or real or not. And so it could be a multitude of issues. Number one is, you know, we went out there and it was not in compliant and we contracted for it to be cleaned up and we cleaned it up,
 now it's two weeks later and we had a lot of rain and you know the grass is high again and so it's a it's actually a new case second could be that we went out there and it was either in compliance or we didn't have evidence of non-compliance and so had to close it the third could be that it went through our hearing process and then it has an FDO that's attached to it and now we have a fine against that property in a thousand ten thousand hundred thousand dollars and
 But that's where it's at in this process. And so, you know, certainly we would need to look at it on a case-by-case basis to determine, you know, what that situation is. But there's no case where we just close it for, you know, no reason, right? But so we would have to look at those individual cases. But I know that the couple that we're working on in your ward, we
 haven't had evidence of those. And so we would need either a neighbor to testify to that effect or we've gone after hours, weekends to try to ascertain whether that operation is going on. We just haven't been able to identify it. We want to make sure that we have the evidence that obviously holds up through our hearing process.
 and that's the businesses but the house the housing ones like the one with the holes with the raccoons i mean you can see them from the street and then the other one you can look it up online and then you can see the house because if you look at the lot you can't see the house
 No, and happy to look up all those on an individual basis. You know, Director Meyer hit it on the nail of we're trying, in our effort to fight blight, we're trying to intercept these properties before they become demolition cases. You know, and that's why we have the vacant and foreclosed property registry. That's why, you know, we're as aggressive as we are. So, no, happy to look up those properties individually. Alderwoman Meeks.
 I want to ask about the demolition list. So basically from what I guess I'm hearing, there's times where the funding runs out for the demolition and so by the end of the year there's no funding left and so some of the homes that were on the demolition list are no longer on the list. I guess, first I guess can I verify that that does or does not happen?
 It's slightly more complicated. So there is not a demolition list per se. There is certainly a list of problem properties and that's a very dynamic list as properties get added to it
 and properties get sold and that. So we have a list of problem properties and it's too large for us to look at on a yearly basis, but on an annual basis we identify the worst of the worst that we don't think can be rehabbed, that we don't believe have market viability, and that we have resources to demo. And over the last,
 Five to seven years we've done approximately a hundred properties I don't believe there's been a case in that time that we've run out of funding for those properties but what's been very interesting is we have Encountered a market that is much more agreeable for rehab. And so we have a
 We have had more objections to our demolitions this year than we've ever had before, or at least in my memory that we've had before. We have properties that we have
 fought needed to be demoed and then brought in a contractor like a that the receiver and said no we can do it and so we've uh... adjusted and you know went down the rehab route instead uh... button know at that the current time uh... sorry for the long-winded answer but the current time is
 we have demolition dollars available we fund demolitions through community development block grant if it is eligible we fund it through our general fund and we fund it through grant dollars primarily through ida through our abandoned properties program right now we have the properties available
 delay is more of a how do we make sure that this property is actually needed to be demoed as opposed to could it be rehabbed can we save the assessed value can we keep the integrity of the neighborhood so what is the time span then of identifying that when you have homes that you know from the looks of the neighborhood they're saying we want this house demo you might look at it and say I want this house to be restored
 What's the timeframe to kind of make a decision like that?
 it so it is definitely variable we identify our demolition targets on an annual basis and so we're currently in process on the staff level of looking at our 2022 and then we'll be looking to you to verify those within your wards or identify other significant properties that maybe aren't on our list um you know for one reason or another however we also build capacity within our funding source to make sure that
 if there's a fire and and the property needs to come down that we have capacity to take that down and take care of those kind of you know more urgent situations but you know in terms of property by property if it's on our demo list and the property owner objects to it or somebody comes out of the woodwork and says wait wait wait we say show us the money show us you have the capacity and
 We'll take it off the list if it's not on our list There's a there's a longer time timeline of that and we're certainly willing to work with but it's it's a very dynamic List on how those properties move up and down depending on the situation a hole in the roof of a vacant property can deteriorate it incredibly quickly and we've all we've also had properties that have been on our list for a
 Multiple years and we go and drive by and lo and behold it's been sold. It's been rehabbed. We had no idea So it runs the gambit Thank you Mary, I actually have a couple questions first of all regarding the staffing in the proposal to add an inspector I
 I'm all for that you have my vote and I would ask director Meyer if if there is a similar need in the legal department because I just feel like anything we can do anything and everything we can do to expedite the process voters would appreciate greatly and I would encourage you to answer yes yes leading the witness
 That's leading the witness, right? So you really don't need to ask Director Meyer that question. It's actually Director Haggerty that the questions need to be referred to. Director Haggerty? No. Second, regarding the Elks Club.
 the fact that a judge has ordered it be demolished obviously we it doesn't mean it's coming down anytime too soon and not before january of 2022 at the earliest that's the deadline in the order is to re is to repair the building or actually demolish the building by that time i think uh
 It is an ongoing case. We typically don't speak about ongoing cases, but in this case, in the order, Judge Hansel recognized that based on an analysis done by an independent third party that the cost to rehabilitate that building far out exceeds the profit it would make. So, which is usually what happens with any demolition is that the cost to repair is so great that the value of the property doesn't support it, and unfortunately that property
 one of those that's just continued to deteriorate over years and years and years despite a lot of efforts to try to get that property owner in particular to either sell it to somebody who could rehab it or put the money in himself. So is receivership a possibility in that situation? Potentially. Yeah, it is. But again, I think part of the issue is when you're looking at receivers, it's potentially
 the person coming in is going to have to look at the property and say, if I put an X, this is worth my time. So I wouldn't say no, but I think if you look at that report, I think it's a stretch. Okay. And so then my last question is regarding the lien issue. And I've raised the question, and you and I just talked earlier tonight about
 sign i understand alderman logan and his uh... desire which i would share force for leniency fines for individual property owners are struggling to keep their homes up but on the flip side ice would still argue we need we should be more aggressive in issuing fines against corporate owners for repeat offenders and i'm yet so you know
 we are the whole purpose of is compliant so we don't sort of target commercial versus personal but we do look at repeat offenders it's the same problem year over year month after month you're gonna see less leniency from the city simply because that's how we perceive a means to an end you know we have to find you a higher amount because you're not listening the first five times this came through
 you know with our liens we don't administratively release liens we would come through council and the reason is that's money those that's taxpayer dollars somebody spent money taxes were paid in and we paid money out to Moa when somebody else decided not to hire their own contractor or they sell it and or they come in and pay it off I mean there are contractors every year specifically with mowing that you know
 they'll pay their fines we'll mow it they'll pay their fines or we'll add the bill to the sanitation bill or the mowing bill so they'll get paid off but at some point we also don't want to be operating a mowing service for people either so you know we'll be looking at at the end of this mowing season and
 which of those property owners has sort of taken advantage of our services and the taxpayers over the last three or four years and decide next year we're just not going to do that we may be pursuing fines which can ultimately end up in you know us foreclosing on our property if it's a if it's a commercial one that we think is viable so
 Again, not a tactic we want to take. I don't think we want to be in the business of taking private property from people, but at the same time, we all have a duty here to safeguard taxpayer dollars and be good stewards. And if that's the tactic we have to take to get people's attention, that's the way we have to do it. But those could be added to their water bill versus
 Action to take their property, correct? Yep. So if we yeah, we mold properties and there's a water bill going out there We'll add that to the water bill along with administrative fees. We'll tack on Our administrative fee as well But there are times when you know That's just not that's not going to be enough because we're still we're still using Staff time to go inspect the property and do you know the two correct follow-ups? And we don't want to have to keep doing this year over year and if you have every year we see the same properties taking advantage of that system and
 We may be notifying them, you know going in next morning season like this isn't gonna we're not gonna follow the same process And actually we're going to start finding you larger amounts. Thanks alderman McNeely. Thank you Mayor and thank both of you for your presentation. I certainly appreciate it I have a number I think I call on a regular basis about some more than just blowing the lawn
 But I've complained before about properties in my ward that have been on a list and it's taken a year or more. And I've complained about properties that, where there's a fire and they tend to stand there with no movement, no change whatsoever for a year. And I have a few of those properties now. So I don't think it's,
 complicated for the CD department to find out where there's been a fire because they get the reports or I get the reports I'm sure the fire department sends the reports to CD as well and to be able to get those properties immediately on the list and put up for at the top of the list to get them demo unless there's some legal reason so I'd like to know has there been a change in
 and how we're putting those properties on the list, the fire properties, because I don't see the change. And what do I need to do if I need to do something?
 Thank you, Alderman. And I'll be happy if you have those, I'll follow up with you after the meeting and get the exact addresses and check into them individually. There hasn't been a change. We use a scoring system that Council's approved and we are looking at the applicability of that scoring system and making sure that it still aligns with our neighborhood strategies and our development strategies.
 and would take any revisions through council as, you know, to be approved. So there's been no change to that, but you are correct that we do work closely with the fire department. When there are fires, we will try to, and they are,
 they are lost cases, they need to come down, they're not rehab-able, that we do put those to the top of the list and take them down. Now, fires can be unique cases, you pointed to legal issues, there could be insurance claims that are going through the process and things that protrude or prolong that process. But no, I'll be happy to follow up on any address that you have. Thank you. And I too, if I may comment, Mayor, that
 I certainly would support an increase in code enforcement, more than one. Maybe we could take some of those federal dollars. I have a meeting with Ms. Haggerty tomorrow, so maybe we can figure out how to take some of those dollars for additional code enforcement officers. Don't forget legal. Thank you. What was that, Director Martin? Don't forget legal. We were in that list. I think they all forgot about that already.
 Alderman Rose. Yeah, I would 100% second that component with the added staff for it. I know a lot of times Kyle Saunders gets a lot of thanks here at City Council, but I just wanted to mention that Jessica Schaefer does a bang-up job for the city. She probably hates me at this point for calling her all throughout the summer, but she does a fantastic job on getting
 getting to work on things and managing the team that we have. But I know you had mentioned that you don't always comment on current cases, but I know you guys have worked on the Exelon, or is that the one on there? Yeah, Exelon.
 Essex and then also the Nursing home, but one of the more high-profile ones now is the Atwood building Is there kind of a time frame or kind of update you can give the city on what's currently happening with that? So we've actually taken a newer approach on that one as well. We We have filed a code enforcement hearing here locally. We've also filed a circuit court case. We've done both tracks and
 In this case, we also not only cited the property owner, but we also have cited the insurance company as somebody who's in control of that property but not taking necessary steps to bring it into compliance. And I guess I'll sort of leave it at that because we are, you know, we have had some communication, I guess we've heard of communication movement potentially on demo.
 permits being pulled for that property so you know if that doesn't happen we'll continue marching right along but those those properties those larger properties when you're talking about a big bill they do take a long time they are unsightly but ultimately you know we're gonna do everything we can in our in our ability to put that on the back of somebody else other than the property taxpayer that's that's a lot of money and so
 We think it's worth the wait on that one. So hopefully that we're hopefully we have some movement on that Thank You alderman and Wilkins Thank You mayor I just wanted to know is there a way that we can maybe expedite the process of Individuals or property owners who may pass away and they don't look you're shaking your head off. Let me finish the question Hey
 But what's happening is I've had people come to me and as you probably already know, they maybe have siblings or children who are fighting over the property or whatever the case may be or try to decide to do with it. But that takes a long time, like over a year. And by then it's like no one wants to do anything to it because they don't know who's going to get it. But by then the property is in really distressed condition.
 And it's like, what do we do? So it's like, is there a way to expedite that at all? Those are actually some of the more difficult problems we have when you have interested parties who don't want to abandon the property but also don't want to step in and take care of it. And they want to fight either about who should not be in control or who should be in control. In the meantime, it deteriorates. So the short answer is no, there's not an easy process to do it.
 I guess potentially a way we could get ourselves involved would be if the matter's in probate and there are code violations and there has been a fine issued, we could potentially intervene in the case as a creditor and see if we can get a probate judge to turn over either order
 the case to be resolved, essentially close out the probate case, or in an extreme case we could potentially try to petition for control as a creditor. I haven't gone that route yet, but it's certainly something I'm willing to explore. That would be a relatively complicated process. Okay.
 One or two of those cases to get people's attention and start turning over property, but those are difficult There's also difficult the real difficult ones are when we have people pass away And we don't know who the heirs are or the heirs have no interest in taking control of the property Those are those are also incredibly difficult for us as well Alderman Quinones. Yes, I too would appreciate you getting 22 at another staff to the Fort Coast enforcement and
 I got a couple questions here. I have grass problems in my ward. How long does it take to respond to a complaint before a person puts another complaint on the same property? How long does it take for city inspectors to respond to a complaint once it's submitted? And how long do we wait if there's no action to put in another complaint for the same property? So we will respond to a complaint within one or two business days.
 If there is a violation then we provide notice through mail We certainly allow several days to make sure that the mail receipt is received and that they have a chance to you know Rectify that solution so it'll typically be a week later that we would go out and reinspect the property and if you know The violation still occurs then we would order it to be contracted to be cut And the contractor has three days to do that. I
 Another question too is abandoned vehicles. I just got a complaint yesterday that if they're abandoned vehicles on city property, how long does it take to get removed? Like the 100 block, the parking lot is 7th Street. There's a car there with no plates front or back.
 so if it's on public property i believe it's the the posting requirement is 48 hours so we have to go post on that vehicle try to uh notify the if we could find out the property or the owner of the vehicle let them know they've got 48 hours to remove it and then if they don't then we can have it towed that's it that's all i got alderman printy thank you um mayor me too um
 I guess my question comes in with the prioritizing. I know, I'm wondering how you all prioritize, especially as it relates to weeds, is it first come first serve or is it, is there something else? And I don't know if you've said that or not, or if I understood that in your.
 presentation so no there's certainly not a prioritization of cases that are reported to the city and in the sense of we take care of these and we don't take care of those we respond to all cases that come in and we align our staff capacity to you know to our historic number of cases and so you know we have individual inspectors who are assigned to each of your wards they aren't assigned to
 three inspectors over 14 wards so they aren't assigned to just four and a third wards they're assigned based on uh you know historical cases that we've had uh being the past being the best indicator of the future um um but uh but no we don't prioritize on cases that come in we go out we inspect and if there's a violation we run them through the same process and so
 I just remembered a block and a block, and they were just a block over from one another, and I put them in at the same time, and one has been handled three times, and one has not been handled at all. So I'm just wondering how they rank.
 So we'll have to look at it and happy to look at it. No, I'm just, that's just an example. It could be a difference, again, as Director Meyer alluded to, every property is different, and so there could be just a difference of maybe we're talking to that property owner. I don't know. But more than happy to look at the differential. You know, a lot, I will note as a side note, you know, some individuals say, well, you know, I got property,
 violation for this and the property right over there you know has the same violation why didn't you cite them and when our inspectors do go out you know we do look for similar similar violations so that there's not a we try to minimize the neighbor by neighbor you know element aspect but my inspectors are responding to complaints they're not in your neighborhoods looking for violations and so that's where some of those discrepancies come about but
 I'll be happy to follow up and find out the exact nature of those cases. Thank you again. And I would really support maybe especially if you're in that neighborhood, maybe looking at them because I think I have a few places where you can't get to the one that I reported without passing some of the others that maybe, you know, nobody got to. So I would support.
 Yeah Absolutely. Thank you any additional questions alderman dirt. Thank you your honor. I just have one quick question given the fact that You know what blight and such is a challenge in Rockford and it is arduous to address it legally Sure anything for instance like legislation and lobbying could work on is there anything from a state statute point of view that that we could run up with our legislators and
 Since we're not a home rule community, is there anything that we can do to help in that regard as you go through these processes?
 I can yeah so yeah I think the first thing in and we actually try to do it with our we're going through that blight reduction task force is anything we can do to reduce the amount of time that abandoned properties can be turned over to public governments would be helpful so right now for example
 The property has to have water shut off or no water service for two years. A lot can happen in a year, so reducing that to one year would be helpful. Giving us, lowering the burden, the threshold we have to get over to declare something blighted or abandoned would be helpful. Those are probably the two biggest ones. Right now, go ahead.
 Sorry to interrupt, but Nick, maybe you could talk a little bit. I mean, usually in the spring, we bring forward through legend lobbying a list of legislative items to have our lobbyist work on. And, you know, Nick and Carl have been.
 critical in identifying what our team sees as roadblocks in our enforcement effort. And Nick just made an example of a legislative change that could happen. So typically we'll bring those forward to council on an annual basis. You guys have either endorsed them or changed them. But I believe we just had a blight bill approved downstate that
 significant authors on and really drove the process with our local delegation to get done. And Nick, maybe you can talk about that, because I believe that took two legislative cycles or two annual cycles to get that approved and changed. Because typically, even though we see it as an obstacle in regards to blight reduction, someone else sees it differently.
 So having to making sure that we have a number of communications with other statewide organizations to get our change lined up is critically important. But I'll hand it back to Nick so he can talk a little bit about the success that we just had in this legislative session. Sure. So back in 2018, Senator Stottleman led a statewide blight reduction task force with the Illinois Department of Defense.
 with IDA Illinois Housing Development Authority and a number of municipalities were part of that but really was driven a large part by Rockford and with some help from the Cook County land bank authority and addressing legislative fixes Or hurdles that we have and this is back in 2018. We sat down with our team Internally CD and legal to try to identify, you know, if we could change these one two, three four five things would it be helpful? And you know we we identified a
 a few one was an ongoing problem we had with the winnebago county trustee problem program for those of you who are here in the prior administration we were spending about a quarter of a million dollars or more maintaining properties owned uh in trust by the winnebago county trustee
 when we asked the agent over the county to take ownership or you know ownership and control of those and mow the properties and board them up what he responded was well the statute doesn't say that we can do that so we're not going to do that so it's back on the municipality to continue to maintain those again that was two hundred fifty thousand dollars a year just out the door
 We also had a process, it's called a sale on error. Meaning, so properties can be sold for taxes, right? The property taxes go delinquent for a number of years. I can invest in that property, purchase the taxes, and I have two choices. Either one, the property owner can pay the back taxes with a premium, up to 20% if not more, or I can take title to that property after a certain amount of time.
 They have an out clause though that says if there's a blemish on the property, that they can declare what's called a sale on air and they're giving their money back from the county with interest. And for Rockford it was like a million five a year throughout the county we were giving back to these property owners with a small amount of interest. It was actually costing us money. And a lot of the liens were actually, or the blemishes were City of Rockford liens for mowing and maintaining properties, again, out of the taxpayer bucket of money.
 So we wanted to address that process. We had, we saw problems with, again, the, you know, our ability to declare properties abandoned, both what the status of the property was, which I think the previous term was dangerous and unsafe, as opposed to, you know, harmful to the public welfare, which essentially the way the courts interpreted that to mean was the property essentially had to be imploding on itself before we could declare it abandoned and beyond, you know,
 in all reality the properties were beyond the point of rehabilitation. There's also still restrictions on the amount of time the property has to be abandoned before we can step in.
 Gosh, I'm trying to think what else we had. A couple of other issues that were similar in vain that we thought were small fixes that we thought we could try to fix with the legislative changes. So we drafted the language and sent that down through our lobbyists to gather support.
 I went through our local delegation and actually got through a third reading it down the state, but never got called for a final vote in Springfield because you start having people who would come out that we knew we didn't anticipate. They were against it. So you have the Illinois Realtors object because you're dealing with property issues, right? The tax buyers have a lobby, a rather successful lobby that were against.
 saying this is going to impact them. So we never got that bill called for a vote. It took us about a year and a half to get it together, and then we got to five yards from the goal line and never crossed.
 At this last legislative cycle, we went back and had maybe a smaller group, pared it down, spent a few months negotiating the bill, got out some of the more objectionable items, and ended up getting it called and passed. It really got what I think are the most important things in the bill that we needed to. One was addressing the state of the property that has to be, before it can be declared abandoned.
 lowering the interest rate that properties that are sold for delinquent taxes can be charged.
 and making sure that now the statute specifically says that the county trustees can use the profit the money in the funds to maintain properties as opposed to requiring municipalities to take control of them so we got three sort of big big items through but we had you know another bucket of items that we didn't get through and you know that's how the process works down in Springfield sometimes you don't get everything you want but it's nice to get something because the first time around we didn't so
 So can we put together a list to get to alderman turkey? Absolutely. Yes, absolutely we can any other questions alderman loeb? Yeah, just a real quick request. Yeah, excellent presentation Uh answering a lot of questions. Um, I was just on the I think i've spent and I imagine a lot of us have Spent a whole lot of time continuing to explain these processes. I mean, it's very arcane processes to our constituents um
 And the city of Rockford website is great where you know, I send links to folks all the time I feel like if maybe we could have a flow chart or something on the City Council around the City web page that would be really helpful just to help understand the earth to help the broader public Understand some of these processes a little more because I mean obviously we all know we just like the city of Rockford government Can't just go and take property or a trampoline for example but
 I think that would be really helpful, I know, for me, just as another resource that I can help constituents with. And then, yeah, following up with what Alderman Hoffman had said, just a way to, I don't know if it's possible, sounds like more of an IT thing, just a way to better track the issues as opposed to close. I don't know some of the other ones that I've seen. But what I end up doing is I kind of end up badgering Jessica Schaefer, too, who is, I agree with Alderman Rose, she is amazing.
 And that's I just feel I feel bad in those cases because I don't want to take time away from what she's doing So, you know, maybe if there's a better way to track the issues, especially for our residents on that online portal But yeah, that portal is real slick and I try to get as many folks to utilize that as I can and then Finally, yeah, if this PowerPoint could be sent to all of us aldermen to that would be very helpful as well and
 So I think that that takes care of it. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Any other questions?
 Alderman frost. Yeah, I feel like I'm the old only all of them didn't ask a question I just want to let everybody know that I actually was at the October 2019 I am L presentation And I think we saw almost all of it here tonight. So I want to commend you both for doing a great job I actually the only thing that would have been better is that I am L they actually stopped the presentation at some point I think after 50 minutes, so Getting too crowded. Yeah
 Even pre-COVID it was too crowded. Excellent presentation. We still have a council meeting to go, so we're going to move right along. Okay, moving right along. We're going to go to new committee reports, and we will go to Pliny and DeValma Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the 2021 funding agreement with Rockford Area Arts Council, and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Excellent. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logerman. Aye. I'm sorry, Durkee. Thank you. Alderman Logerman. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Quinones. Aye.
 Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonnie? Aye. Eleven ayes, one no. Excellent. We'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose? Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval that all traffic be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Parkview Avenue and Rural Street, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Parkview Avenue stopping for Rural Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Committee recommends under item to the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish no parking Any time on the west side of Cumberland Street from Auburn Street to 55 feet south of Auburn Street The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 3 the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval that traffic on 10th Street be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with 21st Avenue and
 Item for the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation of no action be taken on the request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of Greenwood Avenue and Westchester Drive thus repealing the existing traffic control of Greenwood Avenue stopping for Westchester Drive and
 Item for the committee recommends denial of the variation for a driveway addition in the front yards along Rybrook Road and Rybrook Court and an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 7450 Rybrook Road, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of approval.
 Item 6 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a hundred and fifty foot monopole radio tower in our one single-family residential zoning district and I won light industrial zoning district at forty six fifty one Linden Road
 Subject to conditions, the legal director show prepare the appropriate ordinance item 7. the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in the front yard along Sherman street from 4 feet to 6 feet in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 1534 national avenue subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 8, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in the front yard along Crosby Street from 4 feet to 6 feet in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 2308 Crosby Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 7 committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit to increase the maximum allowable square footage for an electronic message display sign from 36 square feet to 704 square feet for an electronic message display wall sign in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 300 Elm Street subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 10 the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 30 24 Searles Avenue The quest the request for annexation from the owner of the property is for a city of Rockford water connection The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 11. I
 And the last one is the committee recommends approval of the right away vacation request by Randall Ballard, Highcrest Center LLC to vacate a portion of Center Drive within Highcrest Center and a portion of North Alpine Road at the entrance to the shopping center. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Alderman Rose. So, Alderman, we have 11 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 11 items? Alderman Frost. Yeah, with respect to item number five,
 This is a property in my ward. The homeowner's actually here tonight. This issue started quite some time ago when they went to, they live on a corner lot, so they're considered to have two front yards. And the contractor that they hired didn't pull a permit, so they've been living with a gravel driveway for months. And it made it through ZBA, but there was a question about
 The use of the driveway including putting or storing two trailers on the driveway that issue has been resolved. The homeowners have found another spot to store the trailers so that the trailers won't be an issue or like business will not be in this residential neighborhood. And as a result of that,
 i i move to amend the committee report to recommend approval of the variation for a driveway addition in the front yards along rybrook road and rybrook court in r1 single family residential zoning district at 7450 rybrook road with the additional condition that the property shall comply with all city of rockford zoning ordinances regulating and restricting parking vehicles trailers and other equipment on private property
 Excellent. So we have a motion for an amendment. Is there a second? We have a second Although is there any discussion on just the amendment alderman Bonnie? Thank you mayor Is our as I recall staff recommended against this and I'm wondering if the amendment Changes staffs opposition. I don't know if I'd like
 Director Franzen, we are on Code and Regulation Committee under New Committee Reports, Item 5. Alderman Frost just made an amendment, make sure I get this right, amendment to make it an approval, and also that the property complies with all City of Rockford codes and regulations. Right. With that amendment, are you asking Alderman Bonney would staff support it? Correct. Okay.
 So no, staff are going to be a still denial. However, counsel could certainly make that amendment.
 alderman frost just so everyone's clear um when this first came through i was uh opposed to uh the expansion of the driveway with respect to storing um the truck and trailers at the property i did reach out i did not speak to mr franzen but i did call scott capovella and discuss it with him to discuss that issue and then once um once uh i believe mr cagnoni myself and mr capo were on an email string uh indicating that
 The property owner had agreed that they would go they would seek an altered spot They've confirmed with me that they actually found Uh an alternate spot to store the trailer. So I have not spoken to mr Capito since that email went out but that that's that was the position taken Thank you Uh, i'm going to alderman durkee alderman wilkins wilkins and then back to bond. Thank you your honor just just a bit of clarification the purpose initially
 for the widening of the driveway was to store work trailers on the driveway. So now, why is there a need for that widening?
 That's my overall question. Who are you asking? I'm asking anybody who knows. I mean, it's probably Alderman Frost. Okay, so Alderman Frost, there's a question right now from Alderman Durkee that the driveway initially was wanting to be widened because the resident wanted the driveway widened for the placement trailers. And he's wondering if they have an alternative location for the trailers.
 Is there a reason for it to be widened? I guess at this point, one of the reasons is because the contractor tore out the portion driveway. I'm not quite sure how much it was widened per se, but I know that the contractor, I believe it was in the springtime, came in and took out the old asphalt.
 and put a gravel layer down and then it was then there was a question asked from like the homeowner and then it was determined that the contractor did not get a permit which is what delayed it as far as as far as i haven't been in the property so i can't um i can't comment on how much wider it it is it's just i think i believe it's a corner house with a side low garage mr cagnoni um just to add a little context into the design of the the driveway this is uh a standard
 width of a driveway that leads to attached garage that is a part of the home. The addition is to take the driveway around the side of the garage, which under normal circumstances would be in compliance with the City of Rockford ordinances. And what we typically see is that they take the driveway to put it in the side or rear yard.
 But as Alderman Frost had mentioned, in this particular situation, this is a corner lot. And you're not allowed to have a driveway within the front yard setback, so thus the request for the variation. So I could see under the circumstances, looking at the overall neighborhood in regards to the relationship, that, you know, this is –
 If you look at the house that's across the street from this house, it's actually the side of that house as well. So part of the reasons why that regulation is in place is so that you're not pointing your side and rear yard use right at someone's front yard. But that wouldn't be the case in this particular situation. So certainly I think some consideration could be taken by council for approval of a variation under the conditions proposed. Thank you. Alderman Wilkins.
 answered my question it was why they were requesting a denial for it thank you uh Alderman Meeks um can I shift to item number two uh not yet if we can come back to you uh there's a motion in a second I just want to make sure we get through this and I'll come right back to you Alderman Bonnie
 So does staff support from hearing mr. Cagnone with the Reasons why that there is he just said that councils there should be special Consideration for it. I think that's as close to your answer as you're gonna get any other discussion on the amendment all those in favor of the amendment to number five say aye aye those opposed okay
 so now we have 11 items before us alderman meeks he had a question on item two yeah can i have someone explain to me um i guess who requested um item number two and and kind of the purpose for the no parking anytime on the west side of cumberland street in auburn street director saunders
 Thank you, Mayor Oldman-Meeks. I believe this came from a constituent in the third ward, and their concern was when leaving that alley, parking in this area restricts sight distance, so it was challenging to actually pull out of the alley onto Cumberland there. So which alley are we talking about? It is the alley that runs between Harlem Boulevard and Auburn Street. Okay. So it's that section of Cumberland that's immediately off of Auburn. Okay.
 so there's a really short distance there between the alley and auburn street and currently people can park there correct it's a very short section there it's it's a budding one parcel right off auburn street okay thank you
 truthfully i don't recall ever seeing anyone parked there myself i've been at that stoplight so many times but makes sense to have no one parked there but um from traffic commission reflect that the request came from alderman tunberg okay okay excellent and he did speak in favor of this at the last committee uh that is thank you uh other discussion on the 11 items before us
 We have made the motion and amendment that has been second and approved. So now we have five is up for passage with the inside that 11. That's why there's 11. Is there any further discussion? All those in favor of items one through 11 say aye. Those opposed. So Alderman Durkee opposes seven to eight. I oppose five. Excellent.
 Next we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost Thank you. Yeah, number one the committee recommends approval vouchers in the amount of six million six hundred and seventy four thousand four hundred and forty nine dollars and eighty nine cents
 As approved that the finance and personnel committee held on August 23, 2021. Number two, the committee recommends approval of proposed sale of the city owned property located at. 316 Salter Avenue to Jesus Vicente Galvin Fernandez. The cost to the recipient to purchase the mode own property is 0.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 3, the committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of the city owned property located at 614 North Avon street. To Helen Lily, the cost to the recipient to purchase the motor own property is 0. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number 4, the committee recommends approval of the sale of the city property located at 1020 North Avenue.
 for a mitigated offer of eleven hundred dollars from nicholas jackson including the split of the property and cost with the other bidder the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance i place these four minutes before you thank you alderman frost alderman there's four items before you is there any discussion on those four items alderman prunty thank you on item number four
 Can you just explain what are you trying to do with the split bidder or split the property? What does that mean? Director Franzen? You're speaking of 1020 North Avenue, is that correct, Alderman? Yes.
 So this was a property, this was a demo property that the city didn't end up acquiring, was originally a trustee property. And so we've made arrangements, council approved, put up for sale and made arrangements with the neighboring property owners to take it and assemble it with their existing lot. So it would be it would be backyard. And the two properties, OK, half will belong to one, half will belong to the other. Thank you. Any further discussion on those four items? Yes.
 clerk could you please call the roll turkey logman frost terena prunty wilkins hoffman rose quinones minks mcneely bonnie 12 eyes excellent we're going to move officers reports to the end we'll have unfinished business playing development there's no item code and regulation alderman rose
 Yeah, we have one item the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a free standing sign for a non residential use in a residential district from 48 square feet to 57.5 square feet along North Alpine road and an R1 single family residential zoning district at 4405 high crest road subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Alderman Frost, do you have an item? Yes, Your Honor. I'd like to make a motion to lay this matter over. I've spoken to the applicant. It's for St. Anne's Nursing Home, and there's an issue between the applicant and the ownership of the land that I guess there's three different...
 Bodies that are involved in trying to work that out and I have not received anything response back. They've worked it out So I just ask this time that they have a current sign there So it's not like people don't know where to pull in They just want to change the color and size the sign So I'd ask for a motion to lay this over to like it's resolved. We have a motion We have a second any discussion on the motion to lay this item over all those in favor say aye those opposed I don't spend them laid over and
 next we're going to go to motions and resolutions no items under planning and development so we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman rose
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Item 1, the Committee recommends approval of the answer 2021. This event is scheduled for Sunday, September 19th from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. and will be held at the corner of Walnut Street and North 2nd Street, the old city body lot. Item 2 is the Committee recommends approval of the authorization for the proposed sale of 82 city-owned surplus properties pursuant to State Law 65-ILCS
 5 slash 11 dash 7 6 dash 4.1. The city will publish the properties for sale in the local newspaper and or commercial exchange for a minimum bid to be determined upon appraisal receipt. City staff is recommending approval to place for sale the 82 city-owned surplus properties attached to the agenda. Excellent. There's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? All those in favor? Any discussion on those items? Alderman McNeely? Aye.
 On item number two, the 82 city-owned surplus properties, I had asked and I appreciate my colleague in that committee holding that out and I still requested that it be held out hoping that we could look at individuals that live adjacent to those properties which they would have the opportunity of purchasing.
 During the open cell as well and priority is given to them. I still think this is a lot of properties within my ward and I would hope that and one of the things that I'll Be discussing tomorrow is that? We can start having construction of new homes in my area we certainly need the new homes and those vacant lots would help and
 and the cost of building new homes. So absent of having the development companies to step forward and say that they want to take those properties for that purpose, I have no choice but to let this move forward, but I will not support it. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. And just a...
 After follow-up, I know staff did personally go out and hand deliver Every one of the properties in your ward to the adjacent property owner. So they've been made aware Thanks for sharing that with me. Welcome. I appreciate that. So we have to add an alderman bond. Thank you mayor I should have asked this question when it went through committee on item one the old city body line is city owned property yes, and the applicant is a church and
 correct i i don't know that director franzen or director saunders so i believe it's actually multiple local churches that is hosting a church service correct but the packet only indicated a church and do we do i guess my question is do we typically allow churches to conduct services on city property so if they would like to go through the process and as every other organization they have that opportunity any further discussion
 so we have two items before us is there any further discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed no on one okay excellent items pass uh next we'll move to finance and personnel committee
 alderman frost thank you number one the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the traffic signal electrical services to angle electric of sterling and william charles electric of rockford for an estimated annual value of thirty thousand dollars the contract duration is through september 30 2020 i'm sorry 2022 with four possible one-year extensions annual price
 adjustments for cpi considered at contract renewal only the funding sources the traffic division operating budget number two the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the water system contractual services to n track group of love's park for an estimated annual value of five hundred thousand dollars the contract duration is from december 31 2022 is through december 31 2022 with four possible one-year extension options the annual price adjustments for
 cpi considered a contract renewal only the funding source is the water fund operating budget number three the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the auburn street clean construction or demolitions debris site closure 2021 to dale plumbing of pecatonica in the amount of fifty six thousand eight hundred ninety one dollars the project is estimated to be completed october 29 2021 the funding sources the water replacement improvement
 Number four is an acceptance of the community services block grant from Illinois Department of Commerce and economic opportunity in the amount of 1,032,291 dollars. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from January 1, 2022 to January to December 31, 2022. Place these 5 items before you. Thank you. We have 4 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 4 items? Holder and frost, thank you with respect to.
 Which one is it here? Number three, I had asked a committee about this company, Dale's Plumbing, and whether or not it complied with the training program that we have in effect for contracts for $50,000. I just didn't know if maybe Mr. Cagnoni or someone could comment on that. My understanding it does, and Director Haggard.
 Yeah, thank you, Mayor. We did confirm that the contractor is signatory to the applicable labor unions who all have approved Department of Labor apprenticeship programs. Thank you. So we have four items before us. Any further discussion? Mayor, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Frost. Terina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Aye.
 Alderman Quinones. Alderman Quinones. Twelve ayes. Okay. Next, we'll go to Planning and Development, Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Oh, boy. An ordinance approving the 2021 funding agreement with Rockford Area Arts Council. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frente. Aye.
 Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney. 12 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is an ordinance proving that all traffic be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Parkview Avenue and Rural Street, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Parkview Avenue
 stopping for rural street item two in ordinance establishing no parking any time on the west side of cumberland street from auburn street to 55 feet south of auburn street item three in ordinance approving that traffic on 10th street be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with 21st avenue item four an ordinance approving a special use permit for a hundred and fifty foot monopole radio tower and an r1 single family residential zoning district and an
 and I-1 light industrial zoning district at 4651 Linden Road. Item 5, an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in front of a yard along Sherman Street from 4 feet to 6 feet in an R-1 single-family residential zoning district at 1534 National Avenue.
 Item 6 an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in the front yard along Crosby Street from 4 feet to 6 feet and an R1 single family residential zoning district at 2308 Crosby Street.
 Item 7 in ordinance approving a special use permit to increase the maximum allowable square footage for an electronic message display sign from 36 square feet to 704 square feet for an electronic message display wall sign in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 300 Elm Street.
 Item 8 and ordinance approving the annexation of 3024 Sears Avenue item 9 and ordinance approving the right away vacation request by Randall Ballard, high cross center LLC to vacate a portion of center drive. Within high cross center and a portion of North Alpine road at the entrance to the shopping center.
 item 10 an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a freestanding sign for a non-residential use in a residential district from 48 square feet to 57.5 square feet along North Alpine Road and an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 4405 High Crest Road I believe that one was Pulled out. Um, that's it. Thank you. Is there any discussion items before us? Oh
 Is there any discussion on the items before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. No on 5 and 6, aye. Logerman. Aye. Frost. No on 5 and 6, aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Items 1 through 4, 12 ayes. Item 5 and 6, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Items 7, 8, and 9, 12 ayes.
 Thank you. Alderman Frost and Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Aaron. Number one is an ordinance approving the sale of the citywide property located at 316 Salter Avenue to Jesus Vicente Galvin Fernandez. The cost of the recipient to purchase the motorhome property is zero. Number two is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property located at 614 North Avon Street to Helen Lilly.
 to the recipient to purchase the motor on property zero and number four isn't i'm sorry number three is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property located at 1020 north avenue for a mitigated offer of eleven hundred dollars from nicholas jackson including the split of the property uh in cost with the other bidder i place those three items before you thank you alderman frost uh is there any discussion on the three items that are before you
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Fonny. 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you.
 We go into officers reports just three quick items one is reminder that tomorrow At 10 a.m. At Memorial Hall chief Pankow Will be sworn in as our new fire chief and would urge all aldermen who are able to attend Next on Saturday
 is the September 11th memorial service that takes place each year and that is at 10 a.m. At the memorial site It's hard to believe that 20 years ago This is a its 20th anniversary and to think that nearly 400 first responders perished that day and thousands of others and still so many dealing with the the
 impacts of that day both physically and emotionally 20 years later, so would urge all aldermen if you're able to please come out for that memorial service They usually do a really wonderful job last thing is this weekend and yesterday were services for Mason Haida who tragically died in a car accident and
 before he played his first football game, had the opportunity to go to his service on Sunday and spoke with his mother, Tracy, and his father, Leroy, and
 Wanted me to make sure that I bring something up to not just counsel but to anyone As I talked to leave Roy his dad He said don't let anyone ever talk bad about Rockford because I said well, that's an odd comment to make at this time And he said I said, well, what do you mean by that? And he said the unbelievably unbelievable outpouring of support and
 From all over the community people. He's never met never knew existed He said to have reached out and he said it's made the world to his family. So a good Horrible horrible tragedy, but a good story of the Rockford spirit helping others So with that I'll turn you over to you for officers reports alderman Hoffman. I
 Thank you, Mayor. Since you put up a name for my replacement, I've gotten calls about how I feel about that. And also, there have been many misstatements made about RHAs, so I would like to take the opportunity this evening to read a statement which I have researched. After 34 years of working for the state of Illinois and the Department of Human Services, I retired.
 During those years as a caseworker, I visited Rockford's low-income housing developments and saw the living conditions firsthand. In 1994, Public Aid implemented welfare reform, which began eliminating lifetime assistance for able-bodied persons. But public housing did not do the same, and as a result, life in the projects continued to disintegrate.
 As a caseworker, I was trained to make home visits before 12 because they wanted us out before the men woke up. It was after that hour that public housing became more dangerous. In 2013, I began pondering what to do with the rest of my life since I was now retired, and it was then that I thought about the families, especially the children, who had to stay in housing after 12 p.m.
 I went on a mission and I asked Mayor Morrissey to place me on the RHA board with the hope of not only making changes, but to improve the lives of the women and children who had no choice but to live there. In January of 2014, I was placed on the RHA board. In May of 2017, I was elected to city council and received legal advice from two sources that I could remain on the board. HUD was aware of my status.
 On December 30th, 2017, the current CEO, who had just accepted a position in D.C., held a meeting with all of the commissioners. He spent three hours informing us of all of the issues surrounding RHA and that we were very close to being taken over by HUD.
 In June of 2018, I was elected as Chairman of the Board. From that point on, I had many, many conversations with representatives from HUD as follow-up to the December meeting, which I found out was ordered by HUD. Within a few weeks, I and the Vice Chairman held a meeting with representatives from HUD. I asked them to lay out what was needed to save RHA from a HUD takeover.
 We were given a list. The Vice Chair and I took it to the Board and the situation was explained. In September, we hired Laura Schneider as our CEO. Laura had been the interim CEO, but we made her position official. We then, as a Board, began working with Laura to right the wrongs of the previous administration. It was not pleasant. Actions were needed with staff as well as residents. All needed to know that behaviors of the past and poor performance were no longer acceptable.
 Residents were given in-person meetings and handed the rules and regulations for continuing to live with RHA. It was explained that if they didn't comply, they would be removed. Training for staff and residents was provided. RHA was no longer to be housing of the last resort. It was to become a place for low-income people that wanted a better life. Those staff not wanting to improve and residents who chose not to follow the rules were removed.
 Needless to say, they weren't happy, but HUD noticed that we were making the correct efforts. It should be noted that HUD evaluates every development on a regular basis. They are called REAC scores. Under a previous administration, developments had been placed under private management. Based on the outcomes to both the properties and the residents themselves, the company was removed.
 We then went in and inspected the properties. In scattered sites, we were evaluated at 35 and 37 out of a possible 100. The scattered site units alone were left with over $250,000 in damages. In the rest of the units, there were other expensive damages. Brewington was unrepairable. During the time the developer...
 During this time, the developer that we were working with for the redevelopment of fairgrounds withdrew their previous agreement stating that their plans would not work and although our contract with them was also for consulting, they wanted us to hire another consultant. Luckily because RHA had shown that they were addressing the issues and therefore without cost, HUD provided RHA with a consultant who has taken us in a completely different direction from the original plans.
 In addition, HUD has gone in a different direction, which happens to be the same path that we started on in 2018. Fortunately, before being mandated by HUD to change direction, RHA had already begun the LDI program designed by Odessa Walker. And I want to mention that RHA, Laura Schneider, and Odessa Walker were scheduled to receive a national award for this program.
 In another instance, RHA Laura Snyder and Mikaela Harris also were scheduled to receive an award on our Section 3 program, which concerns training and hiring low-income people. You should know that these programs are now open community-wide and you don't have to be a resident to attend.
 We are also scheduled for a third award that concerns how we communicate with residents. In 2019, we received our first national award for a program that joined the local police and RHA residents. In addition, we are receiving a national award on all of our communicating programs. In three long years, we went from being on the verge of being taken over by HUD to being given national awards. We were also told by AFSCME that we had one of the best COVID employee responses.
 I not only got this from Laura, but also from Ask Me Employee. Is everyone happy? No. Those that don't like change or raising the bar are disgruntled. Some, rather than taking advantage of training programs, have chosen to leave.
 I also want to state that Illinois is an at-will state, so if someone does not measure up or meet expectations, the law says that they can be terminated. Their options at that point are to request a hearing with EEOC if they feel the termination was racially biased or if they are part of another protected class and perceive that they weren't treated fairly. When turned down by EEOC, their only option is to hire a labor attorney.
 The RHA Board does not handle personnel issues other than to ensure that the rules were followed correctly. It is the RHA attorney who advises us. Statements have been made addressing people continuing to be placed in housing scheduled to be torn down or that should be torn down. You should be made aware of the ruling by HUD that until a Section 8 application is received, RHA is mandated to continue to fill the vacant apartments.
 The units are owned by HUD and therefore their rules must be followed. RHA is evaluated on vacancies. Once the Section 18 application is accepted, then residents can be placed in housing throughout the city or any place in the United States that will accept their voucher. I also want to remind everyone that not all residents want to leave their current housing and we must follow the rules completely.
 HUD does not want another fiasco like the one surrounding the demolition of Jane Adams. The lawsuit lasted for two years and the residents of the area had to deal with the issue of the vacant buildings bringing unwanted activity to the area. Rockford is in the grips of a housing shortage, so RHA human service workers have already begun looking for clean and safe housing that will accept the vouchers when available.
 The length of time to remove everyone depends on the impact of the eviction moratorium and the housing shortage situations. Now all of this said, in July, I had gone as far as I safely could without bringing political intervention into conversations concerning housing needs for people earning below the median income. The mayor has ideas, aldermen have ideas. Putting residents first and disregarding the not in my neighborhood discussions from that point on would become increasingly difficult.
 I personally would not be able to vote on any housing proposals because of my role in City Council. I also can't vote on any intergovernmental agreements, with these being some of the most important issues to me. Why continue on the board? Also if the vote is 4-4 on those issues, I can't break the tie because I can't vote. We are getting very close to that position.
 In addition, for those who think some rule was broken by my joint service, I would remind you that Fred Westcott from Winnebago County Board has served on the Winnebago County Housing Authority for over 20 years and was just placed on that board again recently. We need to be reminded there are HUD rules and IDA rules and that there are exceptions under certain circumstances.
 I don't want to speak for the Mayor, but I believe that in July, Hud, he and I all came to the same conclusion, it is time for there to no longer be an Alderman on the RHA Board. I therefore gave my resignation to him and RHA. Since at RHA we are approaching the redevelopment phase, I hope that each of you will respect the Mayor's choice for filling my position and will do so in time for them to be seated on the October Board.
 I would also like to mention that we have on our board a resident representative at each meeting, and we have a resident representative who represents the RAD board. That person is chosen by residents. He is non-voting but is charged with bringing forward resident complaints. If you have any other questions, I would be glad to meet with you in a different setting, but I strongly encourage you to keep your conference invitation with Laura. Thank you.
 Thanks would also just make note of everyone's agenda. There is not an appointment I know the public speaker didn't see that this evening, but there is no appointment on there I've already taken that appointment off. So you'll have a new name in front of you shortly Is there someone had their hand up over here? No, oh, sorry alderman Meeks um
 For my officers report, I just want to talk about a town hall meeting that I have coming up in my ward. Thursday, September 16th at 7 p.m. I'll be at Beth Eden United Methodist Church, 3201 Huckman Boulevard. I've invited the city of Rockford Police. I've invited Neighborhood Standards, so Jessica Schaefer will be there. Fantastic. Thank you.
 And I've also invited individuals from the Rockford Park District along with an organization called Screw City Co-op to discuss options within the ward.
 So those individuals will come. It's going to be a great event where we can talk about crime prevention measures and police presence in the area. We're going to discuss neighborhood standards and reporting issues and really explain the system as to how to report. And I know that flow chart that you discussed, Alderman Logerman, I would love that as well to possibly present to individuals if possible. But it's September 16th, so let me know.
 And then we'll discuss neighborhood cleanups and future events for the ward. So I'd love for anyone in the 12th Ward that's interested to participate in this town hall event and really kind of get that message out there. And then also I will say on September 25th, that is a Saturday, a couple of events will be happening in the 12th Ward. The Tour de North End will happen at Olympic Tavern starting at 11 a.m.,
 We have the Churchill Grove, so this is for Chad's Ward, Churchill Grove garage sales along with the Edgewater garage sales, which begin at 9 a.m. until 3 p.m. And then we've got the Rockford Public Library that will be bringing the mobile library to Oxford Park on September 25th.
 from 2 30 until 4 p.m so i'd love for people to come out especially on the 25th and especially on the 16th to talk about neighborhood issues at the town hall but to also spend the day in the 12th ward um it's going to be a great day so thank you thank you alderman rose yeah just real quick um october 17th if you don't have anything going on
 That weekend on Sunday from 3 to 6, we are hosting the second annual Mel Anderson Slow Roll. It will be kind of a spooky ride for the theme that year. And if people are interested in sponsorships, they can contact me through email or via phone. We have different sponsorships available for that event. But also just inviting residents and local Rockfordians to come out, take a ride on the Mel Anderson ride.
 Uh bike path, it's one of Rockford's kind of older bike paths, but, uh, and probably in one of the better condition bike paths. And we're hopeful that notoriety of this bike path will continue to bring about change on Rockford's West side. But also, we know that through public works that they'll be extending that bike path all the way down to the river with the women exchange project. So, uh,
 uh really hopeful that uh when that project gets done that we'll see a lot more a lot more bike riders uh heading out to west rockford and be a part of um you know making rockford's west side move forward so october 17th great event for the family last year we did about 72 bikes that were given away to local youth we're looking to do something similar to that we have free food a dj services
 brought on by Rockford Police and Fire. Hopefully we can get public works out there, Kyle. But really looking forward to the event. We have Team Fur Bandit from iBike Rockford usually shows up, and also we're looking to bring in Rockford Low Riders Bike Group, which has a group of low-riding bikes. So real fun and family-friendly. Again, that's October 17th. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you. Other reports? Yes.
 Alderman Prunty. Excuse me. I just have a request. I know I'm breaking protocol here, but I didn't know if I could break in. I wanted to change my vote. Is it too late to do that? Director Meyer, is that okay? Depending on what the vote is. Which item is it on? Under motions and resolutions code number two. To sale the property. What was the book on? Do you want to change your vote to no on that?
 okay we can we can reflect that thank you other uh reports alderman hoffman thank you mayor well if nobody else is going to do it i'm going to thank kyle again tonight there's a list of things i'm not going to say them all there's a list of things so thank you there always is is there any other officers reports is there a motion to adjourn
 Does anyone want to hear about code enforcement, the strategies around that anymore? No? There's a motion. There's a second. No further discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.