Whitmore with us to provide us with an invocation. Father God, we thank you, Lord, for this city council on today. Lord, we welcome your presence and let your grace be upon the members of this council. Give us the wisdom, the understanding that we may be about the people's business. And, Lord, we thank you because without you we can do nothing. We are trusting you and your lead, and we thank you for it now. In Jesus' name, amen. to the flag of the United States of America. Thank you, Chaplain. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. Ten present. Thank you. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on August 5th, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on August 19th, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Thank you. Next, this evening we have three proclamations. Our first proclamation. Not ready for you yet, Chief. Rockford Police Department, always ready. First responders, think they got e-books. I actually called Todd Hughes because if this was my user error, I didn't have the mic on. So that's why it works now. Our first proclamation this evening is for Adult Literacy Week. And we are fortunate that we have Tricia Wagner and Glendia Stranden with us. Whereas more than 43 million Americans can't read or write at the most basic level, while 62.7 million lack basic math skills, as well as the credentials and skills necessary to succeed in post-secondary education or the trades. And whereas every year one in three young adults drops out of high school. And whereas American Action Forum estimates that America is short in estimated 7.5 million private sector workers across all skill levels. And whereas adult education programs contribute to solving these challenges by helping Americans move along the continuum in their educational journey to achieve basic skills and get prepared for a career in college. And whereas adult education programs in high school and adult schools, community colleges and community centers offer low cost, high value programs that upgrade the skill set of our citizens. And whereas we celebrate adult education and family literacy week as a proud participant in the national educate and elevate campaign, which helps our citizens learn about all their all their adult education options to attain their professional and personal goals. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Macner, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of September 16th, 2024 to be adult literacy week. Would you like to share a few words with us? I want to thank the mayor and the city council for this proclamation on behalf of our workforce area planning council, which includes Rockford Public Schools District 205 Roosevelt Community Education Center, the YWCA Literacy Council and Rock Valley College Adult Education Program. There are more than 27,000 people in Winnebago County without a high school diploma or its equivalent. And we are trying to conquer that number and reduce it one student at a time, opening doors to new opportunities and helping fill the needs of area employers. Once again, we thank you. Thank you. Our second proclamation this evening is for Hispanic Heritage Month, and I believe we have a number of folks who are coming up with us. It's like the who's who in Rockford. So if you would like to come forward. And I don't know if we roll out red carpet or what we do for Mr. Antonio Ramirez. Do we do something special for you, Antonio? Sorry, move this way just so I can touch. I don't want to be standing in front of you. This is a proclamation. Hello. So if you're not aware, Antonio Ramirez, right to my left, I've got to stand a safe distance away from him because he won yesterday, I believe it was yesterday, right? Latino of the Year. So congratulations and really well deserved. Not just, I mean, right now you're incredibly active, but you've always been incredibly active. And if you go to an event or a meeting that's about helping people, you're at it. And just want to say thank you for the work that you do. Whereas, during this period, America celebrates Hispanic culture, histories, and the contributions of the nation's population, whose ancestors came from Mexico, Spain, Central America, South America, and the Caribbean. And whereas, the starting date of Hispanic Heritage Month coincides with Independence Day celebrations of Costa Rica, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Guatemala. And whereas, additionally, the observation of independence for Mexico, Chile, and Belize are September 16th, 18th, and 21st, respectively. And whereas, the United States welcomed people from countries that helped create the nation we have today. and as americans celebrating hispanic heritage month provides an opportunity to feel proud of the richness and diversity of the hispanic cultures that are part of our history now therefore i thomas p mcdermott as the mayor of the city of rockford hereby proclaim september 15th through october 15 2024 to be hispanic heritage month thank you we would like to share a few words I just want to thank City Council, I want to thank the Mayor, I want to thank staff for all the stuff that you guys do to help us, to help the community, especially on Friday. Friday there was a hiccup for the event that happened yesterday, which was a great success, And I want to thank Kerry, your team, and then Public Works with Marty Bloom and others. So you guys are here when the community needs you, and that's very much appreciated. I just want to thank all the alders. Of course, Utah has always been supportive of our community and of course many of the aldermen here and their ladies. No one personally. We work hand in hand with them. So they really support our community, many of you here. So I want to thank you for that. I have a voice as yesterday. I'm just playing. If you guys saw, I had two mics apparently at one point, translating toward myself. No, definitely. Thank you for recognizing this month. Definitely appreciate all the men and women for the city. Tom, thank you. The last couple of years, actually, I can say how much the community has come together is because of the help we get from the city, from all of you. from the staff, thank you. Yeah, we're all kind of working together, building together, and that's the goal, is uniting with everybody that wants to help this community look and love where we're at. So South Main Rockford, we've been doing a lot of things going on down there, but we wanna do it throughout Rockford. And we have a lot of leaders in our community that wanna continue to spread the love of our Latino culture, so thank you. Thank you. Muchas gracias. Did you wanna say something? I just found out that I represent the youth. So the youth is very grateful for, no, but yes, we the youth. Thank you to not only the city council, Mayor Tum, and everyone in staff that have been so supportive, especially as we learned so much with South Main Mercado, Alderwoman Torina, thank you so much, helping Public Works navigating it all. Thank you to our elders, because we're the youth, but truly. No, truly without you guys, Antonio, sorry. Thank you, and thank you again. Okay, next, we're really fortunate we have members of our CCRT team, our MIH, as well as mental health board members with us for National Co-Responder and Crisis Responder Week. So now, Chief, you can come. Yeah, now. Sorry, I'll just walk it down until someone grabs it. Okay, all right. Whereas, the collaboration of the Rockford Police Department, Rockford Fire Department, Love's Park Police Department, the Winnebago County Sheriff's Office, UW Health, and Rose Grants Behavioral Health has demonstrated exemplary dedication and commitment to the safety and well-being of the residents in our community. And whereas a crisis co-responder team and mobile integrated health team was established to address mental health crisis within our community with compassion, expertise, and promptness. And whereas Rockford and Loves Park Police Departments, along with Winnebago County Sheriff's Office, contribute skilled law enforcement officers who provide critical support and security during crisis situations. And the Rockford Fire Department provides highly trained paramedics and emergency medical technicians who offer essential medical assistance and support. And whereas ensuring individuals receive the timely and specialized care needed, UW Health plays a vital role in delivering innovative health care solutions and support directly to the individuals in crisis. And Rose Grand's behavioral health delivers invaluable mental health expertise and services. And whereas the funding from the Winnebago County Mental Health Board's half-cent sales tax has been instrumental in supporting the efforts and sustainability of the crisis co-response and mobile and integrated health teams. And whereas the collaboration between these organizations have significantly enhanced the response to mental health crisis, leading to better outcomes for our community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of September 16th, 2024 to be National Co-Response and Crisis Responder Week. Just want to say a sincere thank you to all the organizations without All of you working collaboratively, none of it would be possible and you all do an amazing job every single day. And we are really proud of the work that you do out in our community to help so many residents who are experiencing crisis. I will also just give a plug for anyone who is in the audience or at home. My personal stance on it, I don't know if I'm allowed to do this, but I don't care. I'm going to. My personal stance is that mental health tax is absolutely critical to the city of Rockford and Winnebago County and the health of all of our citizens. I probably can't urge where you should vote. I'll just say I think it's critical and I think you should do your homework because it's really important for all of our citizens. So with that, it's my honor to turn it over to Chief Gallagher. I probably will do this. I talk pretty loud still. I'd just like to appreciate again everybody, the whole team. I've been with this team for a couple of years now, and I'm really appreciative of everything that they do, the hard work that everybody does, the collaboration between the fire department, Rose Krantz, R1 Mental Health Board, this has been a great collaboration. We are serving a lot of people. If I don't mess this up, this is just a few numbers, in the past three years, individuals that are, unduplicated individuals that we've served are over 5,700 people. About 3,000 have been linked to care. And for the mobile integrated health, They have had a 53% reduction in hospital emergency room admissions. And that is a big accomplishment for us, and this has only been going on, in my opinion, a short period of time. This is only going to grow from here. So I really appreciate everybody that's put forth this effort to get this program going. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. So thank you, Council, for your indulgence with those proclamations. But I know three is a lot for a Monday, but I believe all three of those were an incredibly worthy cause. I do want to draw your attention at this moment to, on your desk, you should receive – a memo from Carrie Haggerty, our finance director, who is outlining the 2023 tax increment financing funds. This is our annual TIF report that you should have on your desk. It's fun reading, so if you have struggles this evening, falling asleep, it's a good one, but also really important touching on all of our TIF funds and a bit of the background there. With that, we're going to turn it to petitions and communications. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Torino. MS. Thank you, Your Honor. We have five items. Number one the zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on September 17 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on September 23rd 2024 referred to Code and Regulation Committee number two the liquor and tobacco advisory boards agenda for the meeting to be held on September 17 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on September 23rd 2024 referred to Code and Regulation Committee and Number three is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation and annexation agreement for 4427 Auburn Street, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Number four is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the proposed extension and modification of the downtown social district, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. And lastly, number five is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding Platte No. 3, Peary-Palta Subdivision, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost There's one matter. It's not random from Kerry Haggerty finance director regarding the approval of parameters ordinance for district to police station This Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we're going to go to our public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that we have a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers. You will have three minutes to address the city council, and you'll either hear an alarm go off or I'll ask you to close up your time and your comments after the three minutes expire. Our first public speaker this evening is Stephen Woda. Waiter wait. Thank you. Thank you, and I have copies for all the council members. We'll have someone come by okay Great Thank You mr. Mayor and council members For your service to the city and what you are doing. I am thankful to be living at Rockford at this time as a pastor I believe that I It is God's will that I have come to Rockford. I work with homeless. I work in the county jail. I work with alcoholics and drug addicts. I have a couple homeless fellows living in my house, and that's all I do. During the weekend of July 13th through 16th, Rockford experienced almost record rainfall, which resulted in many properties in my neighborhood of Keith Creek being flooded. My home, located less than 100 yards from Keith Creek, had 2 1⁄2 feet of water in the basement, including raw sewage. The neighborhood was equally flooded to 2 1⁄2 feet. I walked around in it. Some of my neighbors had even more water in their basements. The reason why I want to address you this evening is because of the history of flooding in my neighborhood. I did not live here in 2007. But I was told by many people, and I saw photographs of that flood, and I believe some tell me there were two floods, some tell me there were three. I cannot verify that. I was told that some 80 homes had to be demolished after those floods because their foundations were not properly secure. Where those people ended up, I don't know. With this year's flood and the change in weather patterns, we can only guess that we're going to get more of the same in the future. It is extremely frustrating for the several residents I have talked with since I have come to Rockford to talk about their experience with the flooding in our neighborhood. We have been told by alder people and city engineers again and again that our neighborhood is being studied. It's in progress. That money is now available. We've been told on a couple occasions that on a certain year, work was going to be done on Keith Creek to either put in retention ponds or route the creek past the mayor's house or something different. But to date, nothing has happened. During this year's flood, I have lost approximately $5,000 worth of property plus many irreplaceable family treasures. The two gentlemen living in my basement lost about 90% of their possessions. My purpose for addressing you this evening is to humbly request. Do I have 30 seconds? No, but we'll make sure that everyone gets your information. Okay, I'm almost done. Thank you. It's to humbly request, don't make any more promises. Thank you. Please do something. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Lola Mae Thrower-Parham. Good evening. Today is September the 16th, 2024. September the 17th, 2018, I had identity theft and fraud. I brought this to your attention. I had three ribs broken. I had two hips broken in two places, had my right foot broken in half and two fractured on the right side. I've had three surgeries, all botched. The big toe came out half big toe. Not complete. Left thumb fractured over and over. Blind in right eye, right now today, totally. Sexually assaulted repeatedly. Torturely repeated. Abused, beaten, drugged. Hair ripped from my head. Dreadlocks ripped apart. Seizures constantly. I have those because of abuse. Blackout, headaches because of trauma of constantly beating. My 2017 niece on all too much to throw out trafficking drugs out of my home with my own eyes seeing that completely. Howard Parham, Teresa Parham, came into my home on that day. Other family members also came, and I know all their names. And I was hurt repeatedly. My son was hurt too, but I'm saying today what happened to me. My father and my forefather fought for my rights. And I am going to fight for them. And I'm not going to give them up because they are my civil rights. And I have a right to do that. That's my home, and I intend to stay there. And no one is going to run me out of my home. And if you all don't lock them up, then I will go further. Where have I got to go? Because I'm talking to, I tell you all the time, they're taking their time. But I am talking to Attorney General, the right people. I just haven't gotten anywhere. But you all are the right people. You're where I need to be right here. This is the city and this is the state. Now I was told every time I go to the state's attorney, you got to have a number. You got to have a number. Well, God told me I was talking to God one day and God put in my spirit. You have a number that ticket number that is your number. So I went back to the state's attorney four times. And they turned me down. They were not, I've never been before judged, not today, since all that happened to me in 2018. Don't you think that's prejudice? Corrupted? Don't you think that? Well, I do. I do. Matter of fact, I know it is. I know it is. Because it's not right. I'm not going nowhere. So you might as well deal with me. Because you know what? I had a breakdown. I had a nervous breakdown because I was married to Howard Lee Parham. Because he beat me. He raped me. He had drugs in my house. He had a prostitute in my house. Teresa Ann Parham. The whole time I was married to him, 1972, that went on the whole time I was married to him, almost 30 years. I've been divorced 30 years, and he's still attacking me. Do your job. Do your job. Next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, written by a wise man, Solomon, the 13th chapter, the 21st, it says the one walking with the wise will become wise. What I'm going to speak about tonight, small towns are where all the mass shootings are. If you want to know where mass school shootings are most likely to occur, look no farther than small towns in suburban America. The white male teenagers that kill four people and... in high school and injured nine was just the latest to happen in a small suburban city. Of the ten deadliest school shootings in the United States, all but one took place in a town with fewer than 75,000 residents. And the vast majority of them were in cities fewer than 50,000. These are good places to grow up. low crime rate, good schools, and a sense of community where everyone seems to know your name. And it's exactly those attributes that I say why small rural and suburban towns are breeding ground for the next school shooter. It's people in small towns and suburbia who think it can't happen there, and that is exactly the type of place where it does happen. I've been studying school shootings for years, and gun violence in the United States and overseas. People tend to think of violence associated with big cities, not violence associated with small towns in America. I say this is because easy access to guns and the copycat effect of disturbed suburban and small town white male teenagers copping each other. It's also blame on the pressure of living in small towns that make it harder for angry white male teenagers to adjust. In small town America, it's said everybody knows everybody and that's well and good. Except when you don't want everybody to know what's going on with you. If things are going downhill for you, you did something wrong or someone did something wrong to you and some girl dumped you. Everybody knows, so it's much harder to get away from it. Mass shootings in small cities stands in contrast to a situation in big cities such as New York, Los Angeles, Chicago. They have strict gun laws, and their own problem with strict gun laws, but it's rare that a mass shooting has been carried out in one of their schools. My solution is to have strict gun laws in these small towns and install metal detectors in all the schools. Children who have mental illness, drug alcohol, problems, put them in a facility so they can get help. The ones who have criminal records, don't let them have weapons. Don't let them bring backpacks to school. Also, if they get hold of their parents, find the parents and lock both of them in jail. Also, don't let them wear long coats to school. Have resource officer patrol in all areas of school. Cameras monitor all areas of school. Have police watch Facebook. These perpetrators let you know what they're going to do before they do it. This would help reduce the mass shootings in these small towns. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Denzel Winter. Is Denzel Winter with us this evening? Okay. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Bramley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons, our citizens of Rockville, Illinois, most of all those who are watching TV. First off, I want to thank the Aldermen for inviting us to be in the Hispanic parade this weekend. We made history because we were the first African American to march in the Hispanic parade. And what made it so even more beautiful to hear our young Hispanic kids and African American kids singing the song Black and Brown together. I wish we could get all ethnic groups and not just black and brown to gather. The argument mentioned that to me about how powerful we would be if we were able to come together. Only shortcoming with that is that our African American community is so divided because of our bourgeoisie, Decepticons. When they get in a position, they forget from which they came. I also want to thank the Hispanics because They have for the past several years always covered 10 of our kids to go to Magic Waters. These are African-American kids that they've been covering, and I appreciate that. I want to also thank, it has been 12 years since I took the citizen police class. 12 years ago I took it twice when Chief Colin Reed was just an officer and a sergeant at that time. And so now I'm going to take it all over again because it's going to be very incremental in the coalition that we have formed that's similar to what this lady was talking about. with me and Tommy Lynch spearheading it. And thanks again last week for those who been calling me about the kids that they having problem with their teenage kids and what happened with the coalition we have formed. And we gonna be meeting with the detective, uh, pardon and the sheriff and the police bureau where we're going to be working together and with uh, Gina links from the city council being on there and with Tim from the uh, uh, Palm Funeral Home from the Winnebago County being there with having R. A. J. Being there having Dr. Reed from the school being there having um, I'm missing somebody's name. We've got five pillars. I'm missing one other person's name. And with those five pillars and with our sub-organization, the NAACP, the beautiful beginning, 100 Strong, and the renewal turning point, we're going to address them issues. And the five main issues that concern me in our community is we're going to address the absenteeism We're going to address the absentee in school. We're going to address if they need a job. We're going to address if they need vocational training. We're going to address if they need life skills. We're going to address if they need a GED. Whatever their concerns are, with them five lane pillars in our community, we're going to address the issue. State Representative Maurice West said to me, said, who funded your program, Brother John? I said, the only person funding my program is the Lord. He said, you should be receiving money from regrowth. He then mentioned to me, he said, I had a meeting with the school board. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. He said, I had a meeting with the teacher union, and they said they wish they had 10 more, Brother John. Thank you. Is Mr. Denzel Winter with us? Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we will move to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Thank you. We have one item. The committee recommends approval of the annexation of 1216 North Johnson Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before us? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $7,186,502.12 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on September 9, 2024. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that item? No discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Crunty. Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Rose Mario's makes Bailey 11i excellent. Thank you. Is there any alderman or woman who has officers reports alderman rose? Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to announce an event that's happening over at Voices of Inspiration, which is a non-for-profit in the ward, in Ward 9, on September 22nd from 1 to 5 p.m. Voices of Inspiration is hosting a Kids Coat giveaway. It's in regards to the temperatures changing and obviously the weather changing here in the fall. And so they are giving away coats, gloves, socks and other items. amenities as well as providing haircuts, some music, and some fun events for children, which again is this Sunday, September 22nd from 1 to 5 p.m. They also will have a few food trucks there available as well as face painting. Aetna Healthcare, some resources in regards to healthcare, a bouncy house, and a few other church groups helping out as well. And so if residents want to come, they can come to 3112 North Rockton Avenue and have fun with that Kids Code giveaway. Thank you. Is there any other council members who have a report? Okay Sorry, I just had a reminder really quick. I just wanted to Talk a little bit about Tour de North End in the Edgewater neighborhood at Olympic Tavern Saturday, September 28th from 11 a.m. To 9 p.m This is a Bike around the North End stamp at local businesses, live music, and apparently there's a chance to win a new Belgium bike. So if people are interested in biking again, or those that have already loved biking, join this event. It's a great event every year. So I hope you participate. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Berrios. Thank you, your honor. I, the year of 2022, PES, Alderman Toffey Quiñones, asked me if I can help him out, bring the community together. And thank you, all the staff. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, other persons, for putting all this effort and bringing the new program forward for foreign initiative. So Saturday we had the parade and festival in the Levin Ward, and I've seen so much unity with our communities These people in Rockford, they're really, really friendly, and we hope we bring more people in those empty houses and everything. And I just want to thank everybody who made this program together. Thank you. MR. Thank you. Other reports? Okay. Thank you. Next, we'll move on to motions and resolutions, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Wilkins. MS. Thank you, Your Honor. ITEM ONE, COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF $400,000. THE GRANT PROVIDES FUNDS TO IMPLEMENT A PLANNING AND ENVIRONMENTAL LINKAGE STUDY FOR THE CORNERSTONE AT GLOBAL TRADE PARK SITE AT THE SOUTHWEST QUADRANT OF THE U.S. 20 AND ILLINOIS 2 INTERCHANGE. The funding source is the HUD Community Project Funding. The grant comes as a 20% cost match, $100,000. For the total cost of the project, $500,000. The funding source is the Motor Fuel Tax Funds. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Logeman. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Crunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey 11 ice. Thank you next we're going to go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost Number one the committee recommends approval award a bit from sandy hollow road ditch repairs phase one in northern only service in the amount of 117 thousand five hundred and thirty three dollars and ninety five cents the contract is through November 1 2024 the funding sources the CIP general fund and Number two, the committee recommends approval of a bid for citywide pavement rejuvenation to corrective asphalt materials in the amount of $520,525.04. It is through November 15, 2024, and the funding source is the motor fuel tax. Number three, the committee recommends approval of a bid for customer service office remodeling to contemporary hammer works in the amount of $34,650. This is a one-time project. The funding source is the property fund balance. number four the committee recommends approval award of joint purchasing contract for the parking deck lighting retrofit to ba solutions the amount of 194 270 the contract ends december 15 2024 and the funding source of the department of energy number five the committee recommends approval award of sole source contract professional development training to forest city consulting in the amount not to exceed 20 000 the funding source is a legal department operating budget number six the committee recommends approval of engineering agreement for corbin street over kent creek bridge rehabilitation phase one hr green amount of one hundred and fifty five thousand two hundred and thirty six dollars the contract duration is through april 2025 with an option to renew for a period from may 2025 through june of 2026 the funding source is the motor fuel tax Number seven, the committee recommends approval of resolution authorizing appropriation of the MFT funds for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code to Corbin Street over Kent Creek Bridge, rehabilitation, engineering, in the amount of $160,000. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of a change order for Citywide Street Repairs Group number two to TCI Concrete to change order amount of $60,000. with a new amendment amount of $2,190,635.94. Additional locations were added to repair storm crane Damage that has been determined to be a safety concern and repairs need to be completed before the winter. The funding source is 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the application acceptance of the Illinois Attorney General's organized retail crime fiscal year 25 grant award in the amount of $111,080. The grant does not require a cost change and the grant term is from July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2025. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of a memorandum of understanding with the Winnebago County for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Grant 2021. The total award was $171,472 with 60% staying with the city and 40% going to the county. Number 11 is the same item for the period 2022 grant. The total award is $170,722, staying with the city and 40% going to the county. Number 12 is the memorandum of understanding for the Edward Byrne 2023 grant, with the total award being $189,302, with 60%, which is $113,000. $587.20, staying with the city and 40% going to the county. 13 is the committee recommends approval of the 2023 budget surplus plan, Item a is to close two negative tip balances item B is a risk management fund item C is a CIP Ward fund one-time additional $250,000 for public infrastructure to each Ward number D is Alpine Road we servicing Spring Creek the high crest number E There's more road we resourcing from Fincham to Guilford and Gale to Churchview number aphids Spring Creek Road we servicing from Welsh Road to Mulford Road and G is Riverside Bulls Boulevard resurfacing from Rockton Avenue to Latham number H is the infrastructure at South Main Street and bypass 20 I is a stabilization of city-owned chick hotel building J is facade repairs at city on Coronado theater supplemented by grant funds case pedestrian improvements at the PCI facility on Linden Road and L is the Discovery Museum. I place these 13 matters before you I Thank You alderman frost so council we have 13 items before us is there any discussion on those 13 items other one makes Your honor, um, I would like to make a motion to lay over item number 13 So we would we have a motion. Is there a second we have a motion. We have a second We would need a simple majority. Is that right? Okay Is there any discussion on the layover clerk? Could you please call the roll turkey? logeman Frost? No. Tarina? Prunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Bailey? Aye. Nine ayes, two noes. Okay, 13's laid over. So now you just have 12 items to vote on. Is there any discussion on any of the 12? Alderman Hoffman? Thank you, Your Honor. I'm just curious. TCI, that's our young people, correct? TCI, no. No? Oh, okay. Never mind then. My question was going to be how many young people have we helped? Throughout the program? Right. So that's LT Construction that we partner, and Pastor Tank Weathers... Total number I would say about 20 to 25 Somewhere in there. I was a good guess 18 to 25 somewhere in that ballpark You some get hired and go off and then we get new I was guessing around 15 And so I'm glad you said 20 to 25 and three are women at least Yeah, at least it could be more than that. I know well. No it would be more than that great. Yeah wonderful Thank you. Thank you any other discussion. I Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logeman? Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Prenti? Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Ninks? Aye. Bailey? Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent. We'll go to new business. Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the annexation of 1216 North Johnson Avenue. Thank you. Any discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Mogelman. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Crunty. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Excellent. Does someone have a motion? So moved. Second. We have a motion to adjourn. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed have a good night.