Good evening. We will call to order the city of Rockford's September 18th regularly scheduled city council meeting. We have this evening with us Norma Barrero to provide us with our invocation. Almighty God, we come before you, Lord. We present this meeting to you, Father. We ask for your sovereignty and wisdom, Lord, expansion and vision. In your name we pray. Amen. To the Republic for which it stands a nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all Where could you please call the roll jerky? logeman to bird Serena fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach barrios Meeks Bailey funny 14 present Excellent. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on June 20th 2023? We have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed Okay, next up. We have one proclamation this evening for the proclamation this evening We have our traffic engineer Jeremy Carter and we also have Ernie and With us. Do you want to come forward if you want to be on this side real quick? I think this is the proclamation that most Rockfordians are waiting this evening. This is for National Roundabouts Week. Whereas, modern roundabouts are becoming mainstream throughout Illinois. And whereas, the primary reason for choosing roundabouts compared to traffic signals is safety. Roundabouts reduce conflict points, lowering the chances of vehicle-to-vehicle crashes. And whereas, roundabouts require driving 25 miles per hour or slower, giving drivers more reaction time to other vehicles or pedestrians and crosswalks. Roundabouts reduce injury crashes by 76% and reduce fatal crashes by 90%. And whereas with reduced road electricity and maintenance costs, roundabouts cost less long term compared to the traditional traffic signal intersections. And whereas roundabouts are more efficient than traditional intersections by reducing wasted time spent at red lights during off-peak hours and by reducing carbon emissions and fuel consumption. And whereas roundabouts are also eco-friendly, providing opportunities for more landscaping and less pavement. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of September 18th, 2023 to be National Roundabout Week. But this is special this evening, not just because we're proclaiming it to be National Roundabout Week, but we are really fortunate to have Ernie and Helen Redfern with us. Ernie and Helen have done an exceptional job, if you are not aware, at Auburn and Maine roundabout. you almost can't put into words the amount of effort and energy that has went into that intersection and have having it being led by citizens and then also incorporating so many other citizens groups youth in so many different regards to beautify that and really pay homage to the veterans that have served our country so well I just want to say thank you It has to be a, I don't even know if it's a labor of love or a labor of duty or what it may be for both of you. But it's absolutely remarkable. It's seen and it's appreciated by so many Rockfordians who traverse through that intersection. If they like the roundabout or not, they love the plantings. And they love how beautiful it is and they love how it honors our veterans. And that is done really because of you two. And on behalf of the city of Rockford I get the opportunity to provide each one of you with just a small token of our appreciation by way of a challenge coin that just simply is saying Thank you. Thank you for the work that you do every single season and the tireless hours that you spend organizing it all But then maintaining it and then sometimes even when we don't want to have to go back after an accident, whatever it may be Always being there. It really is seen and appreciated I just want you to know our city appreciates you and I appreciate you. So thank you so much. I Thank you. I just want to go back to why this is our fifth year doing it. As you know, no public money is spent on this. This is done by the citizens. And that's important. But I just want to go back to that. The time is that in 2018, veteran suicide was a huge issue. And it continues to be a big issue, especially amongst female veterans. And we wanted to show our veterans at that point that, you know, we understood as citizens what they were going through. And we've gotten a lot of great feedback from veterans. We actually have a couple here today. And this was done for veterans by the community. And it was important for us not to have the city funding be involved in that, not because we're anarchists, but because it was truly wanted to be. a labor of love and we continue to do that and more and more people show up every single year and groups are showing up and that so we're very grateful for the city of Chicago a city of Rockford that's like an acceptance speech but I But just to let you know how powerful this is, is that in 2021, Brown University did the most comprehensive study of 9-11 veterans, post-9-11 veterans. And it was a telling one. And a lot of that stuff we can't deal with. But there were two areas there that we can't. And the veterans believed that they came back to an uncaring and indifferent community. And that may be true for other areas in this state, but not in Rockford, Illinois. We planted over 15,000 flowers this year, and we maintained it throughout the summer in a drought. And that took a lot of effort. So thank you very much, and we're very grateful to be part of this project. We found that we can make the area prettier. That was a huge challenge. The first year, Master Gardeners police commander, everyone told us we couldn't do it. And we did it. Oh, we are concerned that it's not as safe as it could be. So this year, our focus and the reason I'm holding this little character is that we are turning to roundabout safety education. Ernie Oh gave to Mayor McNamara a copy of Rhonda Loves Roundabout. So we learned about this book. this spring when we were researching a 20 question quiz on the benefits of roundabouts and at the time it just came out it's the first children's book i'm not in efforts So Veterans Memorial Circle is celebrating its 10th anniversary this year. While it is probably the most well-known of our four roundabouts, we do have four roundabouts in the city. Every day, 50,000 vehicles go through those roundabouts. And even though they've been around since the 60s, Rockford is fairly progressive and what I would consider an early adapter to them, at least in the state of Illinois. We do have the first multi-lane roundabout in a state route here today. It is built up for National Roundabout Week. We've been doing education, as Helen alluded to, on our Facebook website, and that will continue throughout the week and probably the next couple weeks, just with little quizzes about how to be safer and better operate within the roundabouts. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for that. Next, we're going to move to our public hearing portion. We have a public hearing this evening on the pre-annexation agreement for 2701 North Springfield Avenue, and I'll turn it over to the chair of that meeting, Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes. for the pre-annexation agreement for the following property, 2701 North Springfield Avenue. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on August 29, 2023. That notice informed citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council would hold a public hearing on Monday, September 18, 2023, at 5.30 in Council Chambers for the consideration of a proposed pre-annexation agreement for 2701 North Springfield Avenue. Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the pre annexation agreement? Okay, no questions from Council Are there any other questions or comments from the public looks like you do? Will you please identify yourself by name? Yes. My name is Jim Griffin I'm with the law firm of Shane banks here on behalf of the applicant. Thank you. Good evening My name is Jack curry with next amp on behalf of the applicant as well. I And I'd like to give a brief overview of Nexamp as a company, as well as some of the work that we've done on this project to date. NexAmp was founded back in 2007 by two Army veterans who served overseas and realized some of the impacts of relying on foreign fossil fuels. They came back home and started NexAmp, which served as a wide variety related energy services company. Over the years, NexAmp has grown significantly and today is one of the largest developers, owners, and operators of community solar projects in the United States. We currently have over 475 employees. Last year we were voted number one community solar company by Solar Power World magazine. And just recently we made the largest ever domestic module purchase in community solar history. In terms of our experience here in Illinois, we started in the market back in 2018. Our Chicago office has over 75 employees and we currently have over 20 projects that are in operation around the state, three of which are here in Rockford, which I'll get to in a moment. But our projects in Illinois serve over 5,000 residents. 800 of those customers are in the low to moderate income Illinois Solar For All program. As I mentioned, we have three projects here in the City of Rockford, one of which is on the former city landfill on Horseman. This is a 2.5 megawatt project and this project is part of the Give Array program with ComEd. That is a one-of-a-kind program where we partnered with the Rockford Housing Authority to make sure that low to moderate income populations here in the City of Rockford can benefit financially from projects such as this without having to purchase any of the credits from the project. additionally we have two more projects on the rockford airport owned property both of which are 2.6 megawatt projects and for perspective each one of these projects can service over 300 residential customers so i'd like to give an overview of the site selection and why we picked this particular parcel the primary reason being that it has access to electrical infrastructure and there is a very interested counterparty being the landowner who wants to lease and develop this property To this point, we've done a full utility study with ComEd, and we've reached an agreement with them to perform the upgrades and to pay for the upgrade fees with ComEd. Additionally, we've done numerous property surveys, wetland delineations, endangered species consultations. We've had a few different conversations and meetings with the abutting property owners, as well as done glare analyses and real estate analyses on nearby properties. In terms of some of the benefits that a project such as this could provide the City of Rockford, number one would be in addition to the tax base without drawing down from the base and because the project such as this does not require any demand for public services. For perspective, if this project were to go through, it could generate over $250,000 worth of taxes over the 40-year term to the City of Rockford. Additionally, there would be over $600,000 going towards the Rockford School District. By comparison, Rockford is currently not receiving any tax revenue from this parcel. Additionally, as I mentioned, there could be cost savings for residential subscribers to the project, and one of this size would be able to service and allow customers to realize savings. It would be for approximately 750 residential subscribers. Thank you. Thank you. Again, this is Jim Griffin. Let me just add to that. We know there are some unincorporated residents that are located to the east of the property that have made some objections to this project. The project design has accommodated for that residential property that is to the east. We have full landscaping buffer that is to the east of the property that will be in between those residents and the solar panels, and that continues north. So that's going to obscure any view from those residential properties to the project. Additionally, we've shifted the panels to the south and to the west to move further away from those residential property owners. I think as the city probably knows, residential and solar are compatible together. Solar energy projects are very quiet. They don't produce any bothersome noise. They have a very low profile, so they're not very visible from adjoining properties because of their low profile. They don't produce any fumes. They really don't produce any traffic because all is required is some periodic maintenance. So there's no traffic, there's no noise, there's no fumes and no dust. So that makes it a very compatible use with residential properties. In addition, this particular subject property, although it's on your current southern border, of the city does not have any utilities. utility service this project of course doesn't require any utility service so this is a way for the city to grow expand geographically expand its tax tax base without having to extend any utilities or other city services so we believe this is a very compatible and beneficial use for the city and that's why we've asked for this to be annexed and approved by the city thank you thank you very much did we open it back up for questions from council You may want to see if there's other public folks who want to... Oh, are there any other public comments? Seeing that there's no more comments, this hearing is now closed. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to petitions and communications. We're going to go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you. Item number one for under planning and development, we have a memorandum for Colin Bell, Comprehensive Planning and Design Coordinator, regarding the approval of the 2030 City of Rockford Comprehensive Plan, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Torino. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. The Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on September 19, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on September 25, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And number two, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on September 19, 2023. and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on september 25th 2023 referred to code and regulation committee thank you thank you next we're going to go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost thank you i have six matters and they will all be referred to finance number one is a memorandum from carl franzen regarding a purchase agreement for 134 north main street number two is a memorandum from carl franzen regarding a purchase agreement for the watch factory located at 275 south madison street number three is a memorandum from jamie rob regarding an iepa revolving loan fund application approval and authorizing audiences for state fiscal years 2023 and 2025. number four is a member from nicholas meyer regarding a release of city rock with leans regarded recorded against the property located 307 north hinkley avenue number five is a member from kyle saunders regarding a city state railroad agreement for real railway highway grade crossing improvements At School Street and the CPRR crossing. Number six, the number from Carl Franzen regarding the adhesive means on certain Winnebago County trustee parcels. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we're going to go to our public speakers. We have three public speakers this evening. I want to remind each of our public speakers, there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the council. At that point, you'll hear... Buzzard, go off and ask that you close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 133rd chapter, the first verse, it says how good and pleasant it is when brothers live together in unity. This poem is for veterans. We came to quell the fire and fury. We stayed until the job was done. We fought and died, our loved ones cried. And still we didn't run. From Vietnam, Boston to Syria, the Middle East and back, Iran and Afghanistan, and the desert in Iraq. We've seen the movies in all these theaters. spill our blood upon the stage. So when others start to invite them in, you can imagine our pits of rage. How many flights must angels make before they get a clue? How many lives must conflict take before the flights are through? The answer here is simple enough. When the enemies of freedom are gone, only then will we rest in peace, which is best, and with our lives move on. We still with honor. on the field of battle. We fail in death for human rights. We follow no fanatics like sheep and cattle and give no quarter in freedom's fight. And if we fall in the line of duty, wherever our duty may cause us to roam, we know an angel's come to carry the first and the last and the bravest home. We hope and pray for the final flight when the need to fight is gone. Till then we watch the C-130 lift the fallen into the dark. Let Let no man or woman speak ill of our dead, nor trump this nation's cause. If you did not serve, you do not deserve the right to disrespect my fallen brother. Enjoy your freedom and your liberty. Maybe show some gratitude. Support our military and our troops, because America, they fought and died for you. The gentleman that just left, Mr. Stanley, he was in Vietnam with me. And thanks for all veterans. Thank you for allowing me to speak with you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom McNamara, all the persons, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois, and most of all those who are watching on the camera today. Jesus Christ told his disciples, the work is plentiful, but the workers are few. I want to congratulate something I've seen this weekend that blew me away. Everywhere you seen cars showing the Hispanic flag, they had the flags on the front of their cars. I thought that was a beautiful thing to see them recognizing their heritage. What I don't see is that we got two holidays, African American holidays, Dr. King, Juneteenth. We got a whole month of Black History Month, but yet our ethnic group is still not yet together. When we look at our education system, I have one of our youth that told a librarian they'd rather play with the white dial instead of the black dial. I had one of our youths tell the librarian they wished that they were white and that they wished they were straight. We had a youth that could not spell her last name, but now she can spell her last name. Spell your last name. W-L-L-I-A-M-S Okay, and the librarians, it took us a month to work with her for her to learn how to spell her name. Right now, the church, we had a meeting all this month with the different ministers and different church people meeting together to talk about going back to school, picking up kids from school, taking them to school, and having an after-school program. I'm the only one that's actually doing that, but I'm doing that off the funds that I'm getting from my Social Security and my donations. But we are in the process of getting a church band. This church band, the price value is $30,000, but the church is going to sell it to me for $5,000. Thanks to the mayor, thanks to the chief of police and the fire department members, and thanks to a few of the citizens here in Rockford, Illinois and the churches we have raised so far. We started at the end of August. So far, we had $33,193.93. One person gave me $10.93 and this was a youth and he said, Brother John, I'm going to help you get this van. Well that $10.93 meant a whole lot to me for us to help me get that van. If each alderman or citizen was to give us 10 or 15, or the alderman, was to give us $50 a piece. That's $700 right there. Not only do we have to pay the $5,000 for the van, but we also got to look at the insurance for the van. Right here, I'm moving 14 of our kids in my passenger van. Mind you, I'm only supposed to have nine kids in that passenger van. And I'm taking the Fifth Amendment and because I see probably looking at me. Thank you. I need a church man instead of moving 14 in my passenger van. Thank you for allowing me to speak, ma'am. Thank you. I just told on myself. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Larry Washington. Okay, Mayor, I'm going to stay on you about this DeWalker-Fort Mass Transit District. I don't see as where you care at all about what's going on down there. And I'm going to read the lady's complaint that I read last week because she put it as good as you can put it. The way RMTD treats people is disgraceful. The drivers are supposed to be there to serve the community and offer good customer service, but they don't. The drivers bring reproach unto the city of Rockford. The bus company and the service that it gives needs major improvement. Now, I've ridden city buses, Chicago and Madison, Milwaukee, Quad Cities. Not one time have I seen an incident where a driver was rude to a passenger in those cities. Not one time. But this is regular at RMTD. I mean, I've read off, these are like 40, 50 complaints. Rude, disrespectful drivers. Obviously, Dan Engelkiss, Drexel McGovern, Mike Stubby don't care, and they need to go. And may I have to say you need to, okay? Because you're supposed to care about the welfare of those people, and obviously you don't. Now, I wasn't going to speak on this, but I'm going to tonight about... That last sentence in the Pleasure of Allegiance, Justice for All, we know that's not true in Rockford, right? We know that's not true. And there was a guy that spoke about, he said, Carla Rett was the best thing that happened in Rockford. I vehemently disagree with that. What? Because she's not doing the right thing. Now, she was a patrol officer before she was a police chief. She knows who these dirty cops are here. She shared a locker room with them and patrolled with them. She knows who they are, but they're still on the force. Okay? I just read about a mayor in another city, 2022. A lot of corruption going on in his police force. He had the integrity and the guts to fire those police. He had the guts to fire that police chief. So the best thing that can happen to Rockford is for us to get a police chief that cares. I've talked to a lot of police officers. I'm not going to say a lot, but a couple, three officers. THAT THERE IS NO DOUBT IN MY MIND WOULD DO A BETTER JOB THAN COLORAD. THANK YOU TO ALL OF OUR PUBLIC SPEAKERS THIS EVENING. NEXT WE'LL MOVE TO OUR NEW COMMITTEE REPORTS. WE HAVE NOTHING UNDER PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, AND SO WE'LL MOVE TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE. ALL THE ROW AND TERENA. THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS DENIAL OF THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR THE INSTALLATION OF A SOLAR FARM, FREESTANDING SOLAR PANEL RACKS AND SOLAR PANELS IN AN R1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT. at 2701 North Springfield Avenue, thus reversing the zoning ordinance of appeals recommendation for approval. And number two, the committee recommends approval of the pre-annexation agreement for 2701 North Springfield Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have two items before us this evening. Is there any discussion from council alderwoman Wilkins? Your honor, I would like a motion to lay this item over I was contacted by the developers over the weekend who have recently made some changes To this project and they would like the opportunity to have some time in order to speak it over with the residents in Hopes of getting more support for this development. We have a motion a second. So those two items have automatically been laid over. I Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee alderman frost all in the frost now on to you for new reports. I Number one, Your Honor, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $7,764,011.44 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on September 11, 2023. And number two, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the Rockford Mass Transit District and the City of Rockford for RMTD downtown facility expansion. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Council, we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonney. 14 eyes Thank you next we'll go to unfinished business and committee reports laid over We have nothing under planning and development so we'll go to code and regulation Committee all the woman tree Thank You Your Honor the committee recommends approval of the following proposed amendments to chapter 3 liquor of the city of rock for code of ordinances establishing a downtown social district a proposed amendments to chapter 3 hookah of the city of rafa code of ordinances to permit on-site consumption of alcohol and authorized hookah lounges the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you excellent thank you council we have one item that has two portions to it is there any discussion on that one night that's amazing clerk please call the roll turkey logan timber frost Terina Prenti Wilkins Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie. Item 1A, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item B, 10 ayes, 4 noes. Excellent. Next, we have nothing under finance and personnel. I'll move officers' reports to the end and make sure that we get to that. We do have no appointments up this evening and not until October 5th. or after, I should say. So we'll go to motions and resolutions, nothing under planning and development, nothing under code and regulation. So we'll go back to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for citywide streetscape preservation to Northwest Construction, the amount of $57,703.65. The project's estimate may be completed by November 17, 2023, and the funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award bid for City Yard Repairs to Rock Road Companies of Janesville in the amount of $523,224.08. It is estimated to be completed by June 28, 2024. The funding source are ARPA funds. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for the aggregate storage structure to clear span aggregate building in the amount of $355,932. The funding source are ARPA funds. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the Spring Creek tree removal to clean cut tree service in the amount of $84,900. It is estimated to be completed by November 3, 2023. The funding source is both the stormwater fund and CIP general fund. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for citywide pavement condition inventory to applied pavement technologies in the amount of $294,971. It is estimated to be completed by the end of 2024, and the funding source is the motor fuel tax funds. number six committee recommends approval of the supplemental resolution approving the appropriation of an additional 150 000 for citywide general maintenance 2023 for funding streetlight electric energy and citywide salt expenditures the total amended mft authorization is five million six hundred and forty four thousand five hundred and forty four dollars and four cents Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the award joint purchasing contract for police vehicle computers, docking stations, printers, and components to CDS office technologies in the amount of $192,010. The funding sources are the capital lease funds and police department capital budget. number eight the committee recommends approval of a joint purchasing contract for the grant management system to wise hive in the amount of thirty four thousand five hundred dollars for the first year the contract duration is for three years at a rate of twenty seven thousand five hundred per year and is locked in a contract signing the funding source is the legal department operating budget for year one and subsequent years will be paid for by various departmental grant budgets Number nine, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Rapid Rehousing and Diversion Program grant from the Illinois Department of Human Services in the amount of $464,169. The funds are to be divided as $404,169 for Rapid Rehousing and $60,000 for Diversion. The grant does not require a cost match. And the grant term is from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024. The grant funds are awarded for the purpose of providing direct vendor payments to eligible clients, landlord electric and or heating bills, in addition to stabilization services, payroll, and administration. Number 10. the committee recommends approval of the application acceptance of the illinois department of commerce economic opportunity to receive a csbg in the amount of 1 million 72 841 this grant does not require a cost match in the terms from january january 1 2024 to december 31 2024 Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the authorization for the Central Services Manager to execute contracts for 2022 and 2023 fleet plans, light duty planned but not yet purchased vehicles for a total estimated amount of $740,000, not to exceed $851,000. The funding source is the capital lease funds, departmental capital budgets. I place these 11 matters before you. Thank you. So, Council, we have 11 items before us. Is there any discussion on any of those 11 items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Just on number seven, how much installation is required on part of this purchase? I believe Director Hughes may be best to answer this, or Chief Red. Director Hughes, do you want to take the first stab at that? Item seven, the vehicle... the computers and software systems going into the vehicle discussing how much installation are you wondering alderman beach about the length of time that that'll take or what aspect of it i've been wondering initially is if that covered the installation and if it didn't cover the installation what was the additional cost for that uh director hagerty Alderman, I believe this just covers the actual equipment itself This does not I don't believe this includes installation We don't have I don't have those numbers handy, but we will follow up and give you those installation Thank you. Thank you, sir. Of course any other questions regarding the items before us clerk. Can you please call the roll? Durkee Logoman Toomer frost Torino frenzy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Fonny, 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to new business. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Those items were held over, weren't they? I believe item one was held over and item two should be before us. Run the thing away. Which one is it? This one? Number two. ordinance approving the following amendments to chapter 3 liquor of the city of Rockford code of ordinances establishing a downtown social district and amendments to chapter 3 hookah the city of Rockford code of ordinances to permit on-site consumption of alcohol at authorized hookah lounges thank you so we have one item since before us that's item 2 because item 1 was laid over is there any discussion on that one item clerk will you please call the roll your key logan to burn frost Terina print e Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie. 2A is 12 ayes, 2 noes, and 2B is 9 ayes, 5 noes. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you. Yes, Your Honor. Number one is the ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the RMTD and the City of Rockford for the downtown RMTD facility expansion. Thank you. Council, we've got one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee, Logeman, Toomber, Frost, Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey. Bonnie. 14 ayes. Excellent. Before we adjourn, is there any officers' reports? Alderman Wilkins. I just wanted to make an announcement that Edge Community Fellowship, which is located on Kilburn Avenue, they're going to be doing a community clothing giveaway. They'll have clothes sized from infant to adult. That's going to be tomorrow from 2 to 6 p.m. And again, that address is 2000 Kilburn Avenue. They're going to have some free hot dogs as well, so that will happen rain or shine. I know we're supposed to get a few sprinkles, but just know that that event will happen. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderwoman Cronin. Thank you. I just wanted to say how thankful I am and what a wonderful responsive staff that I'm privileged to work with. There were some issues in my community and I think that collectively people came together to assist and I reached out to police, fire, I reached out to human services, and I know that I could have reached out to public works and, you know, that it would have been resolved. Thankfully, the people were able to handle some of the things themselves, but I feel like even if they weren't, that they would have had the help they needed. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Meeks and then Alderman Berrios. I just wanted to give a shout out to Allen Chapel AME Church over the weekend. They celebrated their, I think it was 132 years of service. It's the oldest black church in this community. And just wanted to give a shout out to them for everything that they've done. It's huge in my family. So I just definitely felt the need to express the love. number of years that they put into this community. So thank you. I can attest to that because every event I've went to, it's like a Meeks family. Yeah. Alderman Berrios. First of all, I want to thank Mayor Tom Acamara. And I cannot thank my friend Tophie Quinones for the confidence that you guys had on me to help you with the program Forward for Foreign Initiative and take you to the council. And I just want to tell you that the The vision that you guys had is incredible. How to bring the community together and how... and stimulate our local economy and with the help of everybody the chief of police everybody the fire department the staff public work and there's a great program to bring those communities together and we've seen many many uh events that we all had in our awards and i want to take again to mayor tamil kamara for the confidence our labor union local businesses And there's so many people, but it is so hard to put together, but with the help of everybody, this event was beautiful. And thank you again to everybody. I'm sorry I cannot name everybody that helped me out. First of all, my wife, Melanie Barrios, but thank you for that beautiful program that you guys put together. Thank you. I WOULD JUST ADD, I HAD THE OPPORTUNITY, I DIDN'T GET THE OPPORTUNITY TO WALK IN THE PARADE, BUT I THINK YOU MAY HAVE NOW THE RECORD FOR THE MOST VEHICLES IN A PARADE. IT WAS A PACKED PARADE, REALLY WONDERFUL TO SEE SO MANY PEOPLE PARTICIPATE IN THAT PARADE, BUT ALSO THE EVENT WAS GREAT. AND I WILL SAY ANY TIME YOU DO AN EVENT AND YOU CAN GET OUR CHIEF ON A HORSE, I'M A FAN. SO IF YOU WEREN'T THERE AND YOU DIDN'T SEE CHIEF REDD, IT WAS GREAT. Riding a horse throughout the streets of Broadway. So Thank you, but you're so if John tack has an issue with the insurance Maybe I don't know if you had the permit to ride the horse that day or not So maybe you're even on that older woman Pronte. Did you have I I did too. I'm sorry I want to piggyback to had an opportunity to participate and to go to the event and again It was phenomenal And I love that so many people, as part of your celebration, so many people also remembered Alderman Keonis. And it was just wonderful. And the unity and the camaraderie and the friendship and the love that everybody shared, I think that it was just priceless. So thank you for allowing me to be a part as well. Any other reports? All right. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. Get out of here. Are you serious? Alderman Wilkins, before we adjourn, she wants to say something. I just want to say bye. Thank you. Have a good night.