the mines and the things that go on in the Senate Council meeting, that it might be for the betterment of the city. And, Lord, that things will be done according to your will. And, Lord, we pray also that you'd be with those who protect the city from fire and danger and with the police and fire departments. We thank you, Lord, for the protection that they give us. But, Lord, most of all, we pray that you'd give them your protection and keep your hand upon them so that they might be able to go home at the end of their day
 and be able to be with their families. Again, we ask that you'd be in this meeting and all things that are done for the city of Rockford. We ask in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, please call the roll. Birkin. Getschus. Peer.
 nightmare for us hurting photo you break beach L.A. McNeely cheerily 10 present think we do have a form to most of the journal emotions in a second except the journal of her any amendments changes
 Hearing none, all those in favor of presenting, or accepting the journal as presented, this is the Journal of September 5th, 2016. Please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it, thank you. Turning to public speaking, we have three speakers signed up for this evening. As a reminder, our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. They start going over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is James Mosley.
 Oh, look, lovely. I just want to speak on some brief things that I feel like could help in any eropsy. I know I had a police officer tell me that a lot of people get up here, talk about problems, and no one has any solutions. So I don't know the reach of you all's power, but maybe these solutions might give you some ideas you could bounce off yourself.
 But one of the things I want to do is make it easier for people to get their record expunged. You know, right now I'm battling a possession of marijuana charge from 2008. I can't get a job because of possession of marijuana in 2008. When the governor just passed a law that it's a ticket now, it wouldn't even be a felony if I got caught now. So stuff like that, make it easy to get your record expunged. I've got to jump through so many hoops and write all these type of letters to the governor and do all types of stuff.
 for something that happened in 2008. Make it easier to get your record expunged and I will be opening jobs for people like me because I have no problem getting jobs. It's just my background that's stopping me. Another thing, make it easier to vote and then allow people with felons to vote as well because I'm a felon, but I still have four children. I still have my tax pay since then, so my opinion matters. Just to be able to vote regardless under my criminal record.
 And another thing, marijuana should be legal and it should be easy to access for those who need it. Because I know too many people, white, black, this, that, or the other, older or young, police or not police, who smoke marijuana. And because it's illegal, people have to jump through so many dangerous hoops that they would never have to jump through if it was easy to access like it is in Colorado.
 And another thing, you should take away the minimum and maximum sentences in the justice system because that leaves room for a judge to be biased. Because if there's a minimum maximum the judge, depending on how the judge feels or looks or interprets a person, they can give them a sentence based on that versus if you did this crime, you get that penalty. And you're taking out the biasness a judge can have.
 And another thing, minimum wage should be different based on your age and how many children you have. Now, if you're 14 years old, your minimum wage should be $8.25. If you have no business, you're 14 years old, your parents pay all your bills. If you're 27, your minimum wage should not be $8.25. So minimum wage should be different based on your age, based on how many children you have to provide for. And that is my ideas on how I think we can make Rockford great. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 It's Monday morning at a Los Angeles facility, referred to as a youth guidance center, a state-funded residential facility for at-risk youth. The males living there are ward of the juvenile court and trust to the care of the Los Angeles County Probation Department and Department of Children and Family Service.
 The wardens arrive at the nurse office on the escort by staff and wait patiently to receive their medicine. A counselor informs me that 90% of the dormant population is here and are on psychotropic drugs, according to the Office of the Day. Psychotropic medication is a prescribed drug capable of affecting the mind, emotions, and behavior of individuals, and is often used to treat mental illness. In this case, it appears at this facility, they mostly treat teenage gang members.
 Psychotherapist Leonard Johns, who is responsible for weekly psychotherapy sessions at YDC, believes that gang banging is a result of environment. Gang association, assimilation. He said individuals first become associated with gangs simply because of their environment. It's all around them. Then, if they choose, they become a gang member on that level. They sometimes get involved in dealing drugs and other illegal activities.
 There are multiple levels of gang affiliation. They know all the members, but really don't get involved in illegal activity. Gang members are the ones who put in major work. They do drive-by shoots, murders, and conduct extortion activities to uphold the image of their gangs and protect their interests, said Johnson. As a psychotherapist who has worked with numerous social service agents for 40 years, Johnson said he believes that the majority of inner-city youth involved in gangs as actual members have mental issues.
 This is potentially due to their parents' past substance abuse. The United States Navy found this out in 1959, have long understood that children of drug addicts, alcoholics, could have mental health issues and learning disabilities. It's a fun one. When I was in there for a time, they gave me this, and I'm going to tell you this. If you give me 30 minutes, we'll walk the talkies.
 Thirty minutes is all I need. I can reduce crime here in Rockwood in nine days because I know your hotspot. And that concept system that you're using, I know the man who invented it, Jack Mayweather. Now, you're going to try to arrest. Now it's time to try to test it. If you really want to reduce this crime, let me, the man of God, do it for you. Thank you, Dr. Smith. Thank you. Our third and final speaker this evening is John Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor Marshall, Aldermen, all the women and citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. Psalm 23, St. James, I walk through the body of the shadow of death. I should fear no evil, for thy staff are with me, thy rod is with me. Come from me all the days and glory of my life. I should dwell in the house of the Lord forever. A day after Donald Trump passionately attacked Hillary Clinton, a surgeon, the half of his supporters fall into a basket.
 are deplorable the democratic nominee campaign is heating back with a new and using his own comments about america to attack him the one-minute published online last monday began with a clip of trump bashing clinton
 at the rally in Baltimore early in the day. You can lead this nation if you have such a low opinion for a citizen, Trump said of Clinton's comment, which has partially walked back over the weekend. To add quickly, privilege to a complication of Trump's sound bites from the campaign trail, including his criticism of the Gulf rival, how stupid are the peoples in this country?
 His question of the fact that an American-born federal judge of Mexico descent was adjudicating a lawsuit against Trump University. We are building walls. He's a Mexican. His attempt to reach out to African-American voters, you are living in poverty. Your schools are no good. You have no job. What the hell do you have to do? And his comment about Rosie O'Donnell.
 disgusting pig. This is why I have to think twice about running for alderman. It's sad when a person that is running for a political office tries to find anything negative to say about you, yet not once talk about how you are going to help your country. That's why I want you to know what the do's and don'ts of an alderman. You receive $12,000 a year
 part-time salary. However, when I went to the Legal Aid Department of City Hall, they did not have a job description. Therefore, I'm still waiting to find out. I think that I work outside the box when it comes to working for our people. Will I still be able to do the things that I do in the community, or would I just be forced to be a figurehead sitting at the table?
 It's not a day that goes by that I keep hearing from the grassroot people have told me for the past two years, keep up the good work. We see you everywhere. Way to look out for the have-nots. Watch your back because some of the power of the beat do not like you stepping on their toes or being a whistleblower. Every weekend, you can spot John Tack Brantley from some of the comments I've seen in the Facebook.
 somewhere in Rockford. Just look for the man with about 100 kids. He's always taking the kids somewhere and giving them experience that they do not receive at home or in the neighborhood. Just want to say we see you and some of you could take notes from him. He keep these young ones in line. We are still working on trying to get a minibus or a van so that we can take more of our at-risk youth
 and adult afterhood and to different events in the Rockford and the surrounding area. This weekend we took 30 kids to Angie Park and a 3-year-old won a bike on her birthday, another 6-year-old won a bike and then two of our kids from Fairgrounds, all four of the kids were from Fairgrounds, one won the $50 contest and the other one won the $25 raffle. That's the things we do with our kids. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications. Alderman Durkee. Alderman Durkee here. Alderman Getsch, do you want to take that? Absolutely. I have a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, Grants Compliance Supervisor, regarding the 2017 Draft Annual Action Plan, Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnership, and Emergency Solutions Grants Program. I would like to refer this item to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Matt. It will be referred. Alderman Trelle. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We've got several items tonight. One is a memorandum from LaFleur Caria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding 301-107.
 401 South Water Street, Groundwater Ordinance. Second and third is Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board Agenda and the Zoning Board of Appeals Agenda for the meeting held on September 20th, 2016 and the minutes from those meetings for consideration of the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on September 26th, 2016. The fourth item is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding Plat Number 4 of Halstead Park Subdivision.
 The fifth is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the final plat of Peary West State Subdivision. The sixth is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, again, regarding the final plat of Family Video Charles Street Subdivision. And the seventh is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, again, regarding the final plat of Sports Factory Subdivision. All those items will be referred to the Codes and Rights Committee, Your Honor. As we refer, thank you. Thank you. Finance and Personnel.
 Yes, Your Honor. I have two items. The first is a memorandum from Mayor Morrissey regarding department head appointments reappointments. That will continue to lay over. And I've got a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, city traffic engineer, regarding release of leasing parking permits for Center Place LP, the old City Hall apartments. And I'd like to refer this item to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Matters are referred. Proclamations, we have one proclamation this evening.
 I'd invite anyone who's here with regard to the U.S. Constitution Week, Daughters of the American Revolution, Rockford chapter. Please come forward. With me tonight is Peggy Mangiford. She is with the Daughters of the American Revolution. I'll hand you that. Thank you.
 Whereas the Constitution of the United States of America, our guardian of our liberties, embodies the principles of limited government and a republic dedicated to the rule by law. Whereas September 17, 2016, marks the 229th anniversary of the framing of the Constitution by the Constitutional Convention.
 whereas it is fitting and proper to accord official recognition to this magnificent document and its memorable anniversary, and to the patriotic celebrations which will commemorate the occasion, whereas by public law 915, the issuing of a proclamation each year by the President of the United States of America designating September 17th through the 23rd is guaranteed as U.S. Constitution Week.
 Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the days of September 17th through the 23rd to be U.S. Constitution Week in Rockford and to urge citizens to reflect on the privilege of being American with all the rights and
 that privilege involves. Would you like to share a little bit more? Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Morrissey. I'm indeed honored and privileged to accept the proclamation from the Rockford City Council. The Rockford Chapter, NSDAR, thanks you for your support and of our celebration for our revered document, our Constitution. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Alderman Durkee, I'm sorry, Alderman Hervey. I'm sorry, Your Honor. I hope it's not inappropriate or if it's for a better time, that's okay. I'd like to ask if we could have a moment of silence for the family that perished in the fire recently and a prayer for the firefighters and police officers.
 and first responders who had to enter that home and find an infant and all the rest of the horror. The Austin family, and we'll ask for a moment of silence. Thank you. For the Austin family, all of their friends and all the community supporters, the police and firefighters and all those first responders that have been supporting them in this community during this time of tragedy. Thank you. Alderman Durkee? Yes, sir. Did that...
 Okay, that was a item that we held that you held a committee. I'm sorry. So go to codes and regulations All in Shirley. Thank you your honor new committee reports
 Under B, Code and Regulation Committee, items 1 through 7, I'd like to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Second. I've got a motion and a second to suspend the rules under Roman numeral 5B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. Your Honor, I place those seven items up for passage this evening. The matters are up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 30 I get just like that we're not crossed hurting photo you but each only big really cheerily 11 I'm best best thank you thank you I'm all that all the guesses thank you
 It's your honor for a finance personnel committee of items Charlie 1, 2, 3, and 4. The first, recommending approval of the vouchers for $10,526,049.87. The second, intergovernmental agreement, Rock River Water Reclamation District for $5,000 for storm sewer improvements. Third, a Head Start,
 Early Head Start non-federal share waiver request for reduction in requirement amount for non-federal share of the grant period July 1st, 2015 to June 30th, 2016. And the extension of PNC line of credit in amount to $12 million. Fifth along to the $12 million taxable promissory note series 2009 related fifth amended and related line of credit agreement and
 I think it's been a motion and second to spend rules and Roman were 5 see items 1, 2, 3, and 4. All those in favor spend rules please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Aye. I said the rules be suspended. Governor places items on the class. Thank you. The matters are up for passage is their discussion.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number three, the reduction from the federal government, if I may have an explanation, please. Mr. Davis, do you want to take that? Yes, Your Honor. So this particular request is the result of the grant that we have specifically to serve children in collaboration with child care centers under the Early Historic Child Care Partnership Grant.
 And as with our other Head Start grants, if we are not able to fully match or provide the required match, which is 20% of the total grant amount, then our only alternative to avoid having to return federal funds that cannot be matched is to request a federal waiver of the in-kind requirement of 20%.
 So the purpose of this is to request the City Council's approval of making the request to waive the 20% match due to the inability to really raise the necessary required match.
 Mr. Davis, if you could just add to my recollection, we've made the same request for the last several years. That's correct, Your Honor. This has become, unfortunately, routine for both our Head Start and Early Head Start grants, as well as this particular grant, which is one of the three Head Start originating grants that we operate, due to our shortfall in being able to provide the federal match. Thank you.
 Any further discussion on the items? Alderman Hervey. I just wanted to make clear, we never, the city's general fund has never had to pay on that commitment. You often always, each year you come through, so it's never cost us a dime. That's correct, Alderman. We have...
 we've had years in the past where we were able to make the match but even when we were not able at the time to make the match we've always received a waiver when we've requested one and there's never been a payout of the general fund or a return of any federal dollars as a result. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee. Yes sir. Aye. McNamara. Aye.
 Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3 have 11 ayes. Item number 4, 10 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Matters all passed. Officers, reports. We just have a couple items.
 First of all, I want to go back to, and I appreciate Alderman Hervey asking for the moment of silence for the Austin family. I just wanted to share a few just additional thoughts that we will all continue to pray and support the family on this horrible tragedy that occurred.
 Currently the matter is being investigated as a homicide matter. So a lot of work, tons of work that will have to continue to be done by all of the partners involved, including the police department, fire department, the coroner's office. Autopsies and the forensic work from those will continue for some time. During all this time, we just pray for the families and the friends and all of our first responders that have been part of our response team.
 This is all too familiar to a tragedy we had, which as several of us know, probably perhaps most of us,
 in the community of the Cleary family a few years back that lost two children and a mom in frighteningly similar, it seems, circumstances. It's still very early. We don't know all the details on it, but I just want to, again, share, as Alderman Hervey said, support for all of our first responders and the incredible job that they're doing, literally working around the clock to try to help solve this horrific tragedy.
 It also just reminded me, last week I had the privilege to attend a conference on Baltimore, Maryland. It was the first of its kind, the 20th Century American Cities Conference and American Neighborhoods Conference. I had a chance to – there was a number of mayors that were there, big cities, smaller cities –
 A number of folks from the White House, I was invited to give some remarks based on our experience working with the White House Strong Cities, Strong Communities program. But what was very present in all of those discussions was just how challenging many cities are, have right now dealing with an uptick in violence that occurred in 2015.
 that we know happened here. It happened in cities, many cities across the country. There are practices that are working.
 to help curb violence and I'm very proud of our police department, our fire department, all of our team that's really trying to take a very comprehensive approach in addressing these issues. The one other element I would just mention, for those aldermen that are going to be going to the Illinois Municipal League, this Friday at 3.30, a number of our staff will be presenting some materials on a project that we're calling the Healthy Rockford Initiative.
 The big takeaway that I've had in being able to work with Chief Berkson, Chief O'Shea, so many leaders within our fire department, police department, human social services, is just how interesting an opportunity we have as the state is applying for what's called a Medicaid Section 1115 waiver. They're expanding through this waiver, if it's granted, the definitions of what services could be compensated as behavioral health treatments
 for our population. So if you're on Medicaid and right now you need a lot of services, many of those services aren't covered through Medicaid, so you have to hope that an entity like Rosecrans as a grant, they can help take care of you.
 Under this expanded definition, a lot of work, even work that our police department does, fire department does, potentially could get reimbursed from Medicaid. And so Chief Bergeson has been helping to lead some conversations with the state's managed care organizations, folks like Blue Cross Blue Shield, Aetna, IlliniCare, those are the three that are operating in our area, about how our fire department can literally be a prevention-based department for,
 The Chief Ferguson has been helping to lead this. We're the first department in the state to get this designation to be able to do mobile integrated care and get paid to do it on a prevention basis as opposed to having to wait for a 911 call. So we'll have a chance to discuss this and some of the work that's really cutting-edge work that's happening. And I would just say while we have certainly tons of challenges, we're not alone. And I appreciate all the work that is happening on a horrible tragedy that the Austin family suffered
 suffered, but our community suffers and shares our support with them. And I appreciate and am honored to work with all of our professionals and community members who are working to try to help create a better, safer home for all of us. Finally, I want to mention another tragedy, former long-term caretaker
 A Rockford employee who retired, I believe, earlier this spring, Kathy Fackety, died tragically over the weekend in a motorcycle accident. Her husband, Terry, who is also a Rockford employee, is in critical condition as a result of that accident. So I'd also ask that we take a moment of silence for them and their families, and please rise. Thank you.
 One final mention, there is a memorandum that Jim Ryan distributed today regarding the status on the Amrock Hotel project. If you have questions on that, feel free to follow up with Mr. Ryan. He and I also have a meeting this week on that. We could go into more detail on that offline, but we're continuing to work that project
 vigorously trying to get a solution in place as quickly as we can to allow the financing on the project to move forward. Further officers' reports? Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I am in my first term. So first, there's got to be a second. I would like to publicly announce that I am going to run for re-election for 9th Ward Alderman. I have been privileged to serve.
 my constituents and I would like the opportunity to continue because I think we've got some good things started in my ward and some things in the city and I want to help make them better. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Harvey. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to announce next Thursday, the 29th normally would be the 5th Ward meeting. Next Thursday is the 29th, right? Please tell me that's the 29th.
 Oh, thank you. Normally would be our monthly fifth ward meeting. However, that is also the night that the...
 Ethnic Heritage Museum is having their program, Celebrate Our Heritage. If you've never been to one, they are amazing. The Ethnic Heritage Museum celebrates the six ethnicities that settled southwest Rockford, and I claim being a part of each one of those ethnicities, so it's very confusing for people, but it's just an amazing program. The first year, Susan St. James, who is from Rockford, Macmillan and wife,
 Um,
 her mom collects hats, and she came and was one of our speakers, and the tradition was hats that are famous in each of the ethnicities. One year we did weddings, and you know, each group. One year we did Christmas traditions, and just amazing things. I'm not sure what the one is for this year, but it is going to be that Thursday night. I believe tickets are $50.
 I'd be happy to spring for half if some of my aldermen wanted to go and have a table. I'm actually, I have a table I'm sponsoring for ward residents. But the real announcement is we will not have our fifth ward meeting that night.
 On the 27th, that Tuesday, New Zion Baptist Church is hosting a meeting. I believe Chief O'Shea is going to be there. And it is about solutions to some of the obstacles and difficulties that we have in the immediate community. So it's open to everyone. But we're going to actually be talking with Chief O'Shea about what we need to do as churches, as churches,
 ward organizations to get some things done in the fifth ward and elsewhere. So to the extent that people would come to that meeting, I'm going to send out postcards and email flyers to make sure that people know. So the 27th, I don't know the time, but I'll send that out, will be at New Zion supporting that effort.
 with Chief O'Shea. And then on the 29th, I'm hoping everybody can join us for Celebrate Our Heritage. It's gonna be at Tabella Hall out on Newberg Road. And Green Fire is catering. So it's gonna be good food, good program. Dorothy Paige Turner organizes a program every year. So you know Dorothy's gonna have it efficient and it's gonna be good. So I hope you all can join us and thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports?
 on beach thank you i hope dorothy sings a little bit for us that's great
 That's great. You'll find on your desk a letter that's signed both by myself and Third Board Alderman McNamara regarding Rosecrans and the triage problem that you've heard. We certainly applaud our mayor for taking the steps to try to get this 1115 waiver. We think that's a longer term solution.
 solution we've got to look at something shorter term and I just urge you on behalf of Rosecraft's which have been a great partner we need to do something here in spite of the pressures that we have as a city to help them continue to at least try to seek longer-term so for the problem so would you just please just read this letter and respond to it either way you want to I'd like to have
 it referred to the record to the mayor's desk and perhaps to the finance committee. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you. If I could, Alderman Beach, you just reminded me, and I'll just call this an additional law officer's report. I was going to mention this when it was at committee, but we ended up laying it over. And I've had discussions with Rosecrans leadership.
 as well as a number of our local hospitals and governor's office, et cetera. And as you indicated, in part, we believe a long-term solution support can be generated through the state's 1115 waiver.
 Just had a conversation with some folks from Washington today on the likely timeline of that 1115 and what it might mean in terms of long-term solution. But what's very clear is that we will have to have a solution that is an interim solution most likely. And so I'm continuing, I've got discussions and follow-up discussions with the
 folks in Springfield specifically working on a follow-up with the DHS office. But you know what I had asked is that we not have a moving target. So to the extent
 we can come up with a comprehensive approach and solution. I think that would serve all of us in trying to get a clear idea of what we might be expecting, not just for the next couple months, but what would get us to a point where we'd have some options on some sustainable funding. And so that's an active conversation. I would just encourage continued discussions on it. If there's any additional thoughts from council members, if you want to follow up offline with me, I'm happy to meet.
 Just a request. If this is going to come before us as a request, I personally want something more than just a request. I think that sets a bad precedent. I need $100,000. I'm concerned that we're going to start getting that from other agencies that are just as worthy and do a lot to take some of the pressure off the rest of our city resources.
 So number one, I'd like something in writing. I'd like to see who else is joining in. Rosecrans is not just serving Rockford. And that's the comment that I've gotten from a number of people. Where's everybody else?
 You know, where's the county, where's Love's Park, where's every single municipality, village, town that also benefits because Rosecrans serves northern, big swath of northern Illinois. So where's their contribution and why is it always just Rockford? It needs to be an entire community support.
 And when people say, yeah, but most of the people are from Rockford, no, they're not. Rockford gets most of those people because we have all of the support agencies. And it's unfair to our taxpayers. I think it's unfair to our citizens. We're already dealing with the brunt of the burden. Part two is...
 I hope Rosecrans would join in with some of the other agencies that got their money by suing the state. So the second piece that I'd like to know is what has Rosecrans done to pressure the state or force the state to give them the funding that is due? Because when they closed Singer, we all screamed bloody murder and said this is exactly what's going to happen. And now the chickens are coming home to roost. So,
 I want to know what they're doing to force the state to relinquish that money because it wasn't just the promise from closing Singer, it's the promise to take care of people that they literally put on the street. I can tell you, just as a, again, follow-up, Rosecrans has been extremely active in pursuing this issue with the state, and they continue to be very active.
 There's some questions about the, you know, what exactly was promised and, you know, what does a promise mean in Springfield that normal places don't necessarily, you know, it's, the state budget process has been fluid, let's just put it that way. And there's a significant degree of hope that if a budget compromise can be reached in January, that there might be additional funding available. But really this, again, goes to the heart of the very issue of, you know, the state
 moving from a grant, inconsistent grant-based approach to funding behavioral health to something that is certainly not perfect when you're dealing with Medicaid, but in terms of reliability, you know, you send a bill, generally you get paid, even if it takes some time, and there's dollars in the queue. The conversation right now that I've been personally having with the state is on this question of
 the very issue, what was promised, what funds are out there, and how much, you know, the point I've made is that our, we're already in. We spend approximately $100 million just under it between our police department and fire department, and a good chunk of our activity deals with people in crisis.
 either short-term or long-term crises, chronic, acute, all above. So we're already in the mix. We're investing a lot, as are so many other providers, hospitals, other human and social service providers, as well as, obviously, Rosecrans.
 So those are all appropriate, good questions to ask. And I would just say it's my intent, and I've committed both to Rosecrans and to the state, that we would stay on top of this issue, keep pushing. Because even if, you know, we're not going out of business, even if the Rosecrans Triage Center were to close, we still have to deal with human suffering and the populations that are at risk.
 So this is why it's in our, I'll be very blunt about you, Chief Bergson has been in these meetings, George Davis and some of them as well. We're asking the managed care organizations, the Blue Cross Blue Shields and others, you know, how much does domestic violence cost you? How much does mental health crises cost you, the state of Illinois? And the truth of the matter is, for many of them, they don't know.
 because they don't typically get asked those questions. They're writing checks, they're managing care. We're just not doing it, all of us, collectively very effectively. So it's my belief that we can do better, we should be able to do better, but that is, you know, there's a lot of long-term stuff that we might be able to improve upon, but in the short run,
 We are, I've also asked the question, our records weren't the best. Remember, just real quickly, we can't bring, an ambulance currently can't drop anybody off at the triage center. So many times it's somebody going into the back of a squad car that gets brought to the triage center. And so it's a better solution than bringing someone typically to an ER. But in terms of what's it saving us, what's it saving the state,
 We don't always have the best records on that. That's what we're hoping. I've asked those questions. Phil Eaton from Rosecrans was going to try to pull some of that data together to help us even give more information to the state and how we might continue to justify the state's investment in supporting this operation. Because our general belief is they're going to pay one way or another. It will pay on the front end, pay with a lower cost intervention at the triage center, or it's likely to be a trip to the ER. Alderman Newberg. Thank you.
 I'd like to second what Alderman Hervey has said. The other thing that I have not seen in any type of writing, I like the letter that the two aldermen have given us, but there are also other counties. I mean, it's not just Winnebago County that Rosecrans handles, and I have not seen one thing from Boone County or from Belvedere. And I worked with the...
 court system for 25 years. 17th District is Winnebago and Boone County combined under the 17th. There are many things that we do that both counties have to contribute to, and I've not seen one thing. I know police officers from Belvedere and Boone County both have brought individuals here.
 And they've been very quiet on this. And it's time to speak up. Thank you. Further discussion? Further officer's report. Sorry. Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to reiterate, I think Alderman Hervey asked a whole host of really important questions, and I know myself and Alderman Beach asked many of them, not all, but many of the questions that Alderman Hervey posed. I'm having printed a packet of information that won't address all of those questions, but I'll work to get many more of those answers for everyone, but I'll share that this evening with everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports. Unfinished business. Yes.
 I'm sorry motions and resolutions. Alderman Shirling. Thank you, Your Honor. Under motions and resolutions, I have one, two items tonight. One is the Rocktoberfest scheduled for Saturday, October 1st, 2016.
 from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. at Rural on Tap, 17th on Rural Street. The second is the Miracle Mile Rock and Bowl Car Show, scheduled on Saturday, October 8, 2016, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. in Don Carter Bowling Alley parking lot, 4007 East 8th Street. Place those two items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Up for passage, Roman numeral 7B, items 1 and 2. Is there discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I just have it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under Roman numeral VII, items Charlie 1 through 7. First item is an award of bid for anti-icing liquid from Smith Fertilizer in Knoxville for $35,000. Second is an award of bid for road construction materials to William Charles for unit pricing of $280,000. The third is an award of bid for ditch repair and bank stabilizations to Copenhaver Construction in Gilbert, Illinois for amount not to exceed $250,000.
 Fourth is an award of bid, granular activated carbon replacement to Calgon Carbon Corporation of Moon Township, Pennsylvania for their bid of $1 per pound for an estimated annual value of $40,000. The fifth is award of sole source contract for duty and practice ammunition to Keesler Police Supply Inc. of Jefferson, Indiana in the amount of $63,866.49.
 The sixth is an extension of banking services with PNC Bank for an estimated annual spend of $165,000. Funding sources is the finance department operating budget. And the seventh is a change order. Sole source contract for tasers was originally awarded to Taser International of Scottsdale, Arizona for 17 tasers.
 each in 2016 and 2017 for $33,966 annually. The Police Department is seeking to add an additional 22 tasers for $48,682. The new contract total is $116,613. Funding sources, asset forfeiture funds, and Police Department operating budget. Your Honor, I place these items up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage, Roman Wuerl, 7C.
 And one through seven to discussion hearing none clerk please color all Get your spot back to me Ross Herbie Odo Newberg Beach Lea meet me Lee cheer Ellie 11 I try better to pass. Thank you new business Australia Roman numeral eight new business ordinances the first under B and
 Your Honor, I'd like to hold out item number eight, first of all. That's the alley right away vacation. Eight will be held out. Okay, thank you. And the remaining items one through seven, Your Honor, I'd like to move to suspend the rules.
 I'm going to motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 8B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. All those in favor of suspending the rules on those items, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Your Honor, I place those seven ordinances up for passage. The matter is up for passage. Roman numeral 8B, items 1 through 7. Is there discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Thank you. Aye.
 get just not come here for us for being I don't I you're bird beach Ellie really I cheer really I let a nice best best thank you I got just
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items. The first three will be taken up tonight. The items Charlie 4 and 5 will be laying over. The first item is an intergovernmental agreement with Rock River Water Reclamation District for West Jefferson Street sewer rehabilitation for $5,000.
 The second is the Head Start, early Head Start non-federal share waiver request for reduction in the required amount of non-federal share at the grant period of July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016.
 The third is an ordinance of the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Obel Counties, Illinois, authorizing and providing for a fifth allonge to the Taxable Commissary Note Series 2009 for the purpose of paying ordinary and necessary expenses to the City, authorizing a related Fifth Amendment amended and restated line of credit agreement describing the details of the Fifth Amendment and restated line of credit agreement and note providing for the security for and means of payment of the note.
 Item number four is an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of approximately $22,080,000 general revenue obligation bonds from the sales tax alternate revenue source series 2016A of the City of Rockford, Winnebago and Humboldt County, Illinois. The purpose of refunding certain previously issued and outstanding general obligation
 For such revenue source financing the construction rehabilitation of police stations and repair, and concourse parking that is in effect in the city, describing the details of said bonds, providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same, and for the collection, segregation, and application of certain sales tax receipts to pay said bonds, and further providing the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance, and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof. This matter will lay over.
 And an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issuance of approximately $12,540,000 general obligation refunding bonds, Water Works System Ultimate Revenue Source Series 2016 Bravo. Of the city of Rockford, Winnebago, and Oval County, Illinois. For the purpose of refunding service previously issued general obligation bonds in said city payable from a revenue source. Prescribing the details of said bonds and providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same for the collection segregation application of the Water Works System revenues to pay said bond.
 and further provided the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance and authorizing sales to advance to the purchaser thereof. This matter will lay over for passage on October 3, 2016. Your Honor, I place Items 1, 2, and 3 up for rule suspension.
 second the motion seconds for the rules and Roman world 8 see items one two and three all those in favor suspend rules most reality and policing the public saying I close no I said it was the standard I this is I have to pass matters are for passages their discussion on her I don't agree just the way it's stated that still just the 12 million for the line credit correct
 There's nothing else added in there for an expenditure. Item 3 is just the same $12 million line of credit. I believe so, yes. $2 million for the RAVE per agreement and $10 million for city purposes, and that's the same. Okay, I didn't see the announcement. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Lombardi. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Lombardi.
 Odo, Newberg, Nye, Beach, Elie, McNeely, Chiarelli. Items one and two, 11 ayes. Item number three, 10 ayes, one no. Matters passed, thank you. Further business, Alderman Chiarelli. Yes, Your Honor, tonight I move to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. There's been a motion and second to go into closed session for purposes of discussing pending litigation matters. Is there any discussion on the motion?
 Hearing none, I'll listen. I'm sorry, hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gutches. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. Levin. Aye. Brown. Thank you. The motion carries. We will recess for the purposes of discussing in closed session pending litigation matters. Thank you.
 There is no additional visit before the council. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. There's been a motion and a second. We've got a meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Seventh. The meeting is adjourned. Thank you.