To be present as we make decisions for the city and the good of this community. In your name we pray. In the name of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, with liberty and justice for all. Could I have a motion to approve the journal proceedings? All those in favor of approving journal proceedings for city council meeting held on September 5th, 2017. Oh, thank you.
 Trying to move as fast as possible. Clerk, could we please call the roll for... Berkey. Here. Logeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Here. Chiarelli. Here. 12 present. Thank you.
 Now that we have a quorum, could I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on September 5th? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed say aye. The motion passes. Could I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on September 11th? All those in favor? Those opposed? Item's passed. Thank you.
 We have one proclamation for U.S. Constitution Week, and if Alice Uphouse could please come forward. How are you? Good to see you. Same here. I can give you this. Of course.
 Whereas the Constitution of the United States of America, the guardian of our liberties, embodies the principles of limited government and a republic dedicated to the rule by law. Whereas September 17, 2017 marks the 230th anniversary of the framing of the Constitution of the United States of America by the Constitution Convention.
 and whereas it is fitting and proper to accord official recognition to this magnificent document and its memorable anniversary, and to the patriotic celebrations which will commemorate the occasion, and whereas Public Law 915 guarantees the issuing of a proclamation each year by the President of the United States of America designating September 17th through September 23rd as U.S. Constitution Week.
 Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the days of September 17th through the 23rd of 2017 to be U.S. Constitution Week. Alice, would you like to share a few words? Thank you, Your Honor. Constitution Week is a commemoration of one of America's most important documents. The United States Constitution stands as a testament to the tenacity of Americans, and
 through history to maintain their liberties, freedom, and inalienable rights. The celebration of Constitution Week was started by the Daughters of the American Revolution. In 1955, DAR petitioned the United States Congress to set aside September 17th through the 23rd dedicated to this observance.
 The resolution was later adopted by Congress and signed into public law on August 2, 1956 by Dwight D. Eisenhower. On a side note, Mamie Dowd Eisenhower was a member of the Gettysburg DAR chapter. We can only think that perhaps she influenced Ike to make sure that this happened.
 Thank you, Your Honor and Alderman, for allowing me to come and represent Rockford Chapter and continue our service as we continue our service to this community. Thank you, Alice. Thank you so much. Great to see you. You can take that, too. There's just a copy for you. Thank you. Alderman Durkee, under Petitions and Communications for Planning and Development. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items.
 Under Roman numeral 3A, the memorandum from Deb Dorsey, grants compliance supervisor, regarding the community and economic development department, regarding the 2018 draft annual action plan. This is referred to planning and development. And a memorandum from Carl Franzen, economic development coordinator, regarding Rockford Community Partners quarterly progress report. This is also referred to planning and development.
 Thank you. And Alderman Shirella? Thank you, Your Honor. I have the Zoni Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on September 19, 2017, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Coes and Regs Committee meeting on September 25, 2017.
 I also have the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on September 19, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on September 25, 2017. I have a memorandum from LaFecurie Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code and all three of those items will be referred to the Codes and Regs, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, I have one. It's a memorandum from Chief Derek Bergsten regarding purchase of aerial apparatus and this will be referred to finance and personnel. Next up we have our public speakers. Just a reminder that each of our public speakers will have three minutes to speak. First public speaker we have this evening is Cynthia Horton. Good evening, Your Honor and fellow aldermen.
 If you want to put Rockford, Illinois back on the map, let us join forces here in Rockford, Illinois, and on the Stroll-On State and at the Nicholas Conservatory at Christmastime. Let us see how, as a community, gather two semi-trailers for the kids down in Florida and down in Texas. Because my vision is...
 These kids are not going to have a Christmas this year. So we might as well, as a community, pull together and just put in teddy bears and slightly used toys, like you're selling at garage sales or whatever. And...
 I just want you guys to come along on my journey and my sign would be on the semis, put a smile on a kid's face at Christmas time. And we would have the emoji smile and a picture of a child from the hurricanes on the truck.
 If we do, if we give from the heart, then as a community we get our blessings. Come on, Rockford, donate for a child. So Mr. Mayor and Alderman of Rockford, Illinois, let's do this together. One big heart shows all the love we have for our brothers and sisters of this great nation. And I want to challenge you guys tonight. I feel if we have people from different ethnic groups coming to the city councils,
 Maybe they can put their input the next week on what they feel about Rockford and what their ambitions are for Rockford, Illinois. And also, I want to close out. If everybody can grab somebody's hand and say these words like Diana Ross, reach out and touch somebody so we can make a better place of this world. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Psalms, the 23rd chapter, the first verse, the psalmist says, The Lord is my shepherd. I should not be in want. Mayor McNamara, I want to ask you a question. How many months in a year? You're right. I'm going to name what I'm going to speak about tonight, the 12 reasons why people are leaving Rockford.
 Number one, people don't have a visionary leader here. Two, people have no hope to live here. Three, there are no jobs who get wages and benefits. Four, no transportation. The bus don't run 24 hours a day, seven days a week, so people can get to jobs and back home. Five, women don't have free daycare service, so they can't get to jobs or go to school. Six, no affordable homes or rental apartments. Seven, bad public schools. I call them dropout factors. Eight, high crime. Nine, high property taxes. That's killing the people here in Rock.
 10. No diversity and entertainment for the different races of people who live here in Rockford. 11. Companies and business in Rockford do not believe in giving people a job that offers good wages and benefits if they have a family. That's why the crime rate is so high in Rockford. People here do not believe in giving people a second chance like God gave us with His grace and mercy. 12.
 People see that they can't have anything by staying here in Rockford. If you eliminate these 12 obstacles, you could stop people from leaving Rockford. Rockford is a gold mine. You don't know how to use your resources. I can turn Rockford around in one year, six months, 22 days, one hour, 10 minutes, and 15 seconds. And if you give me 30 million of women with walking torpes, I can reduce crime in Rockford in 90 days. If you use the power of visibility,
 criminals seeing you walking beats, that's how you reduce crime. That's the best way of community police. By being in a patrol car, you isolate yourself from the community. This makes the people in the community don't trust the police. They had an article about me, about the 12 reasons. They also had an article about me in the Register of Stars, and the man told me, he said, I've never seen a man like you. I said, you never will. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet Yusuf.
 Our next public speaker is Reverend Derek Shelby. Ezekiel chapter 24, verse 9. Therefore, thus saith the Lord, therefore, thus saith the Lord God, woe to the bloody city. I will even make the power for fire great. Woe, saith the Lord God, woe to the bloody city. Rock of the Lord is a bloody city.
 I'm a home person from Rockford. I've been here all my life. So somebody can't come out of town and tell me nothing about Rockford. I grew up, I've been here all my life. And Rockford is a bloody, wicked, filthy city. What we had in Rockford was a de facto containment policy. Containing black people economically, socially, and politically.
 That's evil, y'all. Fifty-plus years. Half of that filthy prison down there, I call it the Oxfordson Justice Center, full of black kids. I still ain't got my son's license and Social Security card. I'm 63 years old, and I have never in my life heard of somebody, the police keeping somebody's license and Social Security card. Never. I'm talking about the whole nation. I ain't never heard that.
 And you all gonna tell me that ain't evil? Now listen, my son didn't have no record. None! And they, I got the documents where they manipulated his bond. A bloody city. A filthy, bloody city. And it's some filthy, bloody white men that's behind it. Rotten to the core. This, this ain't no black person doing this. Containment policy. This is white men came up with this.
 I've named a few of them. Can't do that no more. That's fine with me. The Lord Jesus knows who they are, what they've done. I don't know how they're going to face the Lord Jesus. When you die, you meet Christ. I don't care who. If you believe anything else, you're going to hell. A bloody city. The whole city is soaked with black blood. Containment policy. Every white person in Rockford should be ashamed of what them white men have done.
 Talking about the Constitution. Thank you, Reverend Shelby. Okay. Next public speaker is Mr. John Pack-Brandley. All right.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the men and all the women and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 29 verses 25, fear of peoples can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form that can make you afraid to leave your home. Why fear of peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others to those who do not.
 intended by others are too good for those who trust his word. In 1973, the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice filed a civil rights suit against the Trump organization. Donald Trump, his father, Fred Trump, and Donald Trump, who was 27 years old, charged him then with violating the Fair Housing Act of 1968. The suit arose
 after complaints to the New York City Commission on Human Rights and the Urban League, led the League and other groups to send blacks and white testers to apply for apartments in Trump-owned complex, which led them to conclude that whites got apartments in the buildings of their answers while blacks generally did not. Both advocacy organizations then raised the issue with the Justice Department. I can go on, but I'm going to stop there. This weekend at the Grove House and Authority Cookout,
 uh... this past uh... said he was members of housing authority officers that was there in attendance the former ceo rockler came back at the c o m is worse and i do with the the new ceo from up there but i'm not for free port that we used was there the two grown men uh... mister i'd rate but i could be in this duty uh... taken out of their family there and i want to quote something dr martin luther king
 He stated was if he was here today he would be very proud of something he said back in the 60s. I quote, one day black men, brown men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics would be able to sit down at the table of brotherly love. I have a dream to see the neighbors from the Newtown community and the residents of New Grove eating together. One of the New Grove residents commented and she said,
 and her husband like to watch the city hall meeting just to hear what we have to say before the meeting gets started. With no turning point and beautiful beginning community outreach, we were there to support those that have moved out of fairgrounds and to the grove to turn their life around to a new beginning.
 This weekend, I've been talking about this for a long time. We have started cleaning up, we need to start cleaning up our own house and not wait for someone else to clean up our house for us. We talk about the shooting, the killing, and etc. on the news. Why not talk about the positive things that we are doing in Fairgrounds on the news? Guess what? This Saturday, the 23rd, from 10 o'clock to 2 o'clock, United Way of Rock Valley, Rock River Valley Day of Caring is committed
 a community-wide effort that brings together volunteers, local businesses to provide short-term projects focused on volunteer service to non-profits and public organizations. This event gives volunteers the opportunity to assist the community organizations. In partnership with the Renewal Turning Point program, we'll be cleaning up the fairgrounds area. We would like to conclude by saying we are in need of volunteers' trash bags and anything that y'all can donate to help us.
 Alpine Bank is also contributing to help us. You can either contact Jim and Minx or even myself. Thank you. I'll mention it as well. Oh, okay. Thank you. Thank you. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, under New Committee Reports, we have Alderman Durkee. Governor, we have New Committee Report under Roman numeral V, letter A, number 1. The committee recommends approval of the request for approval.
 of the 2018 Community Action Plan for Community Services Block Grant. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and place it under passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Alderman Hurley? Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that Mr. Davis and his staff know that my objection to the plan is not to the work that they do and to the very difficult work, but to some of the absolutely ridiculous restrictions that are placed on community
 this money and for decades many people have talked about the need for the federal government to loosen the strings so that they can better address the needs of individual communities.
 The plan is better than it used to be 20, 30 years ago, but it still cripples us in terms of being able to provide direct services to the people who need them the most, for scholarships, for jobs that people are prepared for and that the community is begging for. So for that reason only, it's more of a protest vote, but certainly not one directed at our staff. Thank you. Thank you. Other discussion on this?
 Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Hogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. Eleven ayes, one no. Thank you, sir. That item passes. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under 5B of Committee Reports, the
 First item is the committee recommends approving the annexation of 3502 20th Street. The second item is the committee recommends approving the proposed sale of 4608 Auburn Street for a minimum bid of $5,000. The third item is the committee recommends approving a proposed ordinance to revise language in the city Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 28-2286, type of protection required to meet compliance with the Illinois Plumbing Code.
 The fourth, the committee report, committee recommends approving the proposed amendment concerning the treatment of vouchers by the Finance and Personnel Committee and the City Council Amendment to City Council Rule 16, Section 2-31. The fifth item is the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the Section 2-407
 raising threshold for requirement competitive bids from 20,000 to 25,000 in accordance with House Bill 547. The sixth item is the committee recommends approval of the Second Amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement fixing the extraterritorial boundaries for the proposed annexation between the city of Rockford and the city of Luffs Park. The legal director shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances, Your Honor, and I place all those items up for passage.
 Thank you. Is there a discussion on any of those items? Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to talk again about number four. There was, I think, some pretty good discussion at the committee level on this, but my concern is that
 Our payment schedule is pretty generous, as I would like to say it, as we get our bills paid. I understand from the committee's discussion there may be some vendors that need a little quicker action, but few in terms of the total. So I'm just wondering why we're changing the whole thing to accommodate just a few rather than trying to figure out some other way to deal with a few and leave the system in place as it is.
 Thank you, and before I give this over to Director Eklund, I think overarching is we as a council have wanted to move towards making Rockford as easy as possible to do business with, and this was brought forward by a number of local small vendors, and if we could turn around payments faster and make it uniformed, I think that's where it was coming from, but I'll let Director Eklund respond.
 So, I think that the two-week timeframe that we discussed at the committee level, that's really, that's best case scenario. I wouldn't say that's typical. I would say a typical turnaround time for an invoice is closer to four to six weeks. There are particular vendors that we give deadlines to, this is the day it's got to be submitted for payment on a certain day. So they understand what the timeline is. But I wouldn't say that it's...
 three or four vendors, I would say it's a fairly common complaint or concern from
 the smaller local businesses that we work with. And that concern is raised almost exclusively by small local businesses. So we're moving this forward in an attempt to be, to not only encourage them to continue to do business with the city, because we believe that we have a number of great partner businesses in this community that provide great service to the city, that are also employing local residents, but,
 it doesn't create an additional burden on time for our staff. From our perspective, the way that Accounts Payable or the supervisors in the departments that are signing off on these invoices
 For us, it doesn't matter. It doesn't affect our transaction cost, the time that it takes for us to process things. Generally, I think it would likely help staff time because we would be fielding fewer calls from vendors looking to find their payment. So I just wanted to make sure that was clear. And it's not just one or two or three vendors. We hear it fairly often.
 Sir, Alderman Beach. I certainly appreciate your comments, Your Honor, and I wasn't thinking in terms of getting your invoice paid in 30 days as not being good stewards. I would like to just ask this question. How long do we wait to get our sales tax money in? That's due us. If I buy something today, should he get my sales tax dollar in two weeks, one week?
 A month, three months? It would be over three months. That's right. And we consider that to be normal. And I'm just simply saying in a nice, kind, kind, kind way that if we're not paying our bills in 30 days, okay, I can see that maybe we could really strengthen that up some way.
 But we certainly aren't paying our vendors in 60, 90 days or longer, I don't believe. But anyway, I just don't want to get it confused with trying to do good business. But I think we've got to look at both sides of the ledger. Thank you. I would just add that we don't ever want to use the state of Illinois as our benchmark for business.
 Alderman Toomberg. Hi, thank you. Back in my old prehistoric undergraduate college days, it was 210 net 30. Some people don't know that you get a 2% discount if you pay your vendor within 10 days of
 But most were 30 days, that's usual. So I understand maybe with automation that it's become more efficient than when I was taught those back, I'd like to think it was yesterday.
 You mentioned, Ms. Eklund, that the city would possibly save money. Unfortunately, I didn't have a chance to call you this week. I was going to ask you that. Can you explain how we would possibly save money by paying vendors sooner? I think that the risk comes from...
 eliminating vendors that need a faster turnaround on payment from competition, ultimately. We have a number of vendors that we get very low-cost services from, I would say primarily on a number of our mowing contracts that we have for city property and for privately owned property where we're contracting for mowing on those lots.
 We get very, very competitive rates from local vendors that provide great service at a very low cost to the city. And I believe that the timeline it takes to get invoices turned around can be a reason for a small business to not participate in our bid process and could potentially be a reason for vendors to no longer do business with the city because of these concerns that they've expressed there.
 particularly to our community and economic development staff. Do you have a follow-up? No, not particularly, but I just, if a business relies solely on us paying within seven days for the wellness and or the well-being of their whole company, you know, maybe causes a little concern
 for the company itself if it's relying solely on the company or the Rockford paying within seven days. Otherwise, if we don't pay within seven days, the company folds or causes big undue hardship, according to them. So, thank you. Thank you. And Alderman Hervey? I just kind of wanted to reiterate what I said last week. These are not the companies most of us are used to, you know, in that rarefied air. These are the little PO folks. These are the folks who
 have big outlays sometimes. They're the ones that are doing some of our renovations for some of our properties and some of the work for our senior properties for weatherization and things of that sort. Sometimes they have to outlay...
 you know, three, five, $7,000 for furnaces, for sheet metal work and things of that sort. They're not your big boys. Yes, it does make a difference to them. And I want to show them that we're open for business too, not just the people who are spending a half billion dollars
 I'm not going there. I'm just saying that I want to make sure that we can, if we can make that accommodation and it's not costing us anything, I don't think we're going to lose money on the float for those small vendors. Now, if we were going to start paying that for our big vendors and not have time for due diligence, different story. But these are guys who come up all the time. What happens if we can't get...
 our small vendors and our small businesses is that we end up paying more, because the big guys charge more. They're not hungry for it like these guys are. And yes, I have a soft spot for them, because I represented small businesses and helped them organize, and I know how difficult it is. And sometimes they can't make ends meet. That is true, when they have those big outlays and they're waiting to make payroll and things of that sort. So I'd ask that we,
 consider them to be a little outside the norm of what we're doing. All we're doing here, if I'm reading this correctly, is saying that we're going to vote on our vouchers every week, which vouchers are pretty much – I'm sorry. Yeah, it would be voting on vouchers at council exclusively. It wouldn't be at committee first. I didn't mean every week. I meant at council so that when they come up, they're not going through committee, but you're getting them turned around and bunched.
 a little bit better than what we typically do. So I don't think that's going to kill us on a 1% float if we have that much. So I would ask that we give a little leeway to these small businesses who are some of the backbone of what we do in our city. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kellett. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to say that we were discussing this.
 last week and I did get a couple phone calls from a couple of small businesses that is so appreciative to do business with the city of Rockford. And what they explained to me was it does, it's a matter of how many individuals they can have on their payroll and get the job done that they're expected to do. I just hope we adjust our bid packages to where it says net term 30 for those that will fall under this category.
 Thank you. Alderman Frost. You know, and I understand that we sometimes we can talk about how we feel about things down here, but this really is strictly an economic issue and we really should leave our feelings out of it. At the end of the day, we're running a city here and I've talked to Director Eklund, you know, we do, there's an issue called sweeping, so all of our cash money sits in an account.
 So, it's earning interest, the amount of interest, but we have a great deal of money in there. This sweep account, it actually gives us some interest that then we actually can utilize for our city services. I don't know, I've never seen the list. Someone's getting called, all the nervies, you know. I don't know who these little folks are that are having to buy a furnace and they can't float it for an extra week.
 I mean, if folks are in business and doing business and they're doing it for the city and now I hear that we're doing low-cost work, I've never seen, for instance, I've heard it's landscapers and tree cutters. Well, if they're coming to my home individually and charge me $50 an hour to cut it, I mean, are they doing it for the city for $25 an hour? Just a hunch the answer is going to be a big fat no to that.
 So when we talk about doing, you know, making our city more business friendly, I'm all for that. And that's for when the solo plumber comes downstairs to the window and tries to get a permit or tries to get an inspection done and is able to get an inspector out there within a reasonable amount of time and doesn't get jacked around. That's business friendly. These are folks that are doing business, and their businesses are doing business with this.
 with the City of Rockford and they're getting paid. We're not paying them in 60 days. We're not paying them in 90 days. I don't know who they are and frankly, it shouldn't matter. We shouldn't be doing a favor for one business because they call six times to our city and now our costs have gone up because we've gotten phone calls. I mean, we should treat all businesses the same, that they're vendors. And if we're paying our vendors within, it's at times at best two weeks,
 and at worst four weeks, where if they don't get their documents in, why don't we just fill out the documents for them, right? I mean, where do we stop it? Why don't we just advance them the money? Why don't we say, I'm going to do work for you in November, and we'll just give money now.
 I mean, you've got to kind of draw the line somewhere, and I don't think the way we do it now, like I said, we went through a long discussion three years ago on changing our council method from going through a week to every other week. And I voted no for it. I wasn't a fan of doing it this way. But this is the way we did it, and this is our system. And to make special exceptions all the time, and make special exceptions for six or eight vendors that call and complain that they didn't get paid in three weeks.
 three weeks, they had to wait four weeks, so they didn't get paid in two weeks, they got paid in three weeks. To me, it is a little bit of lunacy and we're going down a road now, we're just going to please everybody like this when someone calls and complains instead of having uniform rules. You know, this is an accounting system like
 Mayor McNamara said, we are not the state of Illinois. We're not 90 days out. We're not 180 days out. We're not putting people out of work. But they're in business to make money, and they wouldn't be bidding our work if they weren't making money. I don't know many people that buy work from the city. So these folks are people that need work, and they're making money. And so if they get it a week late, I mean, again, I spoke on this last week, and I'm sorry for being so redundant and wasting time.
 everyone's time with us, but I just hear a little bit from the administration, a little bit of talk going back and forth that we're worried about how many phone calls we get. Well, I mean, no offense, but that's part of doing business is your phone rings. The people are upset sometimes. Thank you. Thank you. Administrator Cagnoni, did you want to add something?
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just a little bit of clarification in regards to how this request came about. This wasn't individuals calling and complaining to our process. We went and engaged a number of our small businesses that provide services to the City of Rockford and we asked them, how can we be a better partner? How can we provide
 more efficient services under the contracts that we pursue. And they had a variety of suggestions. One of the suggestions that they had is if there was a way to expedite payment upon completion of work, that helped them as they were constantly managing their cash flow as a small business corporation.
 This is not special treatment for one subgroup of contractors. We recognize the importance of timely payments to all our contractors, so the rule would be for all of them. And it would allow, whether it's a large or small contract, they provide services that we would be able to advance the payment upon work completed a little bit sooner than what we currently do at this point in time.
 Thank you. And Alderman Rose. I just wanted to mention, having worked for a small business that was a vendor of the City of Rockford, I was one of those workers that didn't get paid at one point because, you know, the vendor, my former boss,
 Maybe it had something to do with the city, maybe it was his finances, maybe it was a lot of different things, but it's not a feeling that you get when you don't get paid. It's a reality that I don't have a paycheck, and if I don't have a paycheck, then I can't work here. So the reality for some of these small businesses is that whatever we can do to make it easier for them to operate, I'm all for, and I hope we support this.
 Thank you. Alderman Frost, did you want to follow up? I was under the impression that this all came about because there were some vendors that were calling and had complaints and issues with their cash flow. I didn't know we actually reached out to them. And lo and behold, I'm so shocked that the first thing they said was on their list of improvements that they'd all like to get paid quicker. I mean, most people that run a business would agree with that and would always like to get paid quicker. So I didn't know that was the threshold that brought us here tonight, but I'm glad that was cleared up.
 I guess for everyone, I wouldn't be shocked if we go out and reach out to businesses, ask them how we can be a better partner. We will continue to do that. Other discussion? Okay. Clark, will you please call the vote? Durkee. No. For. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. No. For. And Russ. Frost. No. For. And Irving. Hervey. No. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. No.
 He said no on four. Aye on the rest? And five. Four and five. Quinones, Beck, Shirelli. Items number one, two, three, 12 ayes. Item number four, eight ayes, four noes. Item number five, nine ayes, three noes. Item number six, 11 ayes, one no. Thank you. So those items pass. Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. First is the vouchers in the amount of $4,325,999.42. And the second item is the approval of the 2017 development agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement for residential demolitions. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Is there any discussion on those items? Alderman Herbert? Just very quickly, for Rockford Corridor Improvement, and I apologize, I can't get my system to turn around for me, but is their focus going to change so that they're available for a broader scope of demolitions within the city, or for the next three-year term, are they going to still be in Ellis Heights only? Okay.
 Mr. Tegnone. Thank you, Your Honor. I can't speak for the next three years. This particular year is for the same areas that they have been focused in. We've had a number of discussions with them on when they may –
 choose to transfer out of that neighborhood, and they have discussed that possibility, but also at the same time stated that they wanted to get to a point where they left the neighborhood in a good position and, you know, removed as many of the blight reduction homes and disrepairs possible. Alderman Thompson-Kellett?
 I met with the board of this organization because I still have my doubts.
 in regards to all the properties. But one of the things that they said that they were going to be trying to recruit adjacent property owners. Could you tell me how that process is or have they done that and have they accomplished that of the demos that has taken place already? Mr. Cagnone? I'm not aware that they've recruited any adjacent property owners to take ownership of the vacant lot.
 I'm not certain how many properties we've transferred to them at this point in time, so I'd want to confirm that. I believe that's what you're referencing. Yeah. I'd also add one more comment. You know, going back, when you, you know, the way that they're identifying the properties to demolish is the city of Rockford's ranking system.
 within this area. So as a result, even though they're not going outside of the geographical boundary that they've been focused on, it allows additional resources to go outside the area because they're picking up a number of properties that would otherwise be demolished under our funds through our demolition ranking system. Any further discussion on any of the items? Seeing none, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Bogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye.
 Frost, Hervey, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, Shirelli, 12-I, Shirelli. Thank you. Next up is officers' reports. And just to reiterate an item that Mr. Brantley was mentioning, the day of cleanup or day of carrying is Saturday, September 23rd from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
 They will be meeting at Fairgrounds Community Center, which is 1015 West Jefferson Street, Rockford, Illinois, at 10 a.m. Again, that's Saturday, September 23rd, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Alderman Thompson-Killer. Thank you, Your Honor. Couple of things.
 It's a habit of standing. The individual that spoke about victims of Texas and Florida, I hope we have her information because I would definitely be interested in sharing that with the neighborhood group organizations to give some support to it.
 The other thing is I wanted to address the alderman this evening. Turkey time is coming and as usual, our serving the seniors is coming up very rapidly. For the new alderman every year, this is not, well I'm going to be nice, this is a request. What the alderman do is- He doesn't mean that.
 Georgia staff works very hard in providing and putting on a luncheon for our seniors. They sign up, and the aldermen make donations to buy the gifts for the seniors. We also serve the seniors. So I will be passing out my sheet for that luncheon. I don't, the final details has not been drawn up, but I just wanted to let the department heads and the aldermen know that it's coming.
 Turkey time. Thank you. Thank you sir for the reports alderman show. Thank your honor I just wanted to report that everyone should have a memorandum on their desk This evening for myself and as co-chair and alderman Beach is another co-chair and the mayor McNamara and mr Cagnone or city administrator concerning the advisory committee that for members doing business in Rockford and
 I just want to just read the memorandum for you in case you don't have it. So the resolution approved by the city council that created the advisory committee to evaluate best practices and regulations for doing business in Rockfordshire includes six members of the community appointed by the mayor and the code and regulations committee chair with consent of the city council. The following individuals and the community sector they represent are being presented for consideration and consent to the city council.
 The names are John Thompson of Butita Brothers Automotive, Jerry Sagona, Vice President of National Business Development, Craig Sockwell of Rockford Transport, David Anspaugh, Northern Illinois Building Contractors Association, David Saavedra, Architect, I'm sorry, Dan Saavedra, Architect, and Jaria Crudup, Awaken Foundation L3C. Those are the six names.
 Committee members that we will be presenting next week so I'm proud to say that we are moving forward with this initiative and I look forward to Having some good committee discussion on this and doing what we can to improve the environment in our cities as far as businesses Thank you. Thank you. So further Reports Alderman Kenyans. Yeah, I want to thank the neighborhood inspectors Rob Wilhelmi and
 community service officer Matt Williams from the Rockford Police Department for assisting me at street meetings in my ward. They came out and answered all the constituents' questions. So what I'm doing in my ward is taking it right to the street, and they can meet their public servants. Other reports? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to offer a comment, and I don't want to mess this up, but on the memorandum,
 from alderman shirely when i looked at the list of businesses um i i and i know i'm just going to say it out loud but i'm sure it's being considered but we have no one from as a key member from the hospitality industry as far as restaurants so just an observation what you do with it
 Alderman Terrell? Yeah, thank you Alderman Durkee. So what we're going to be doing, the six committee members that will be on the committee, we're also going to be holding roundtable discussions that will include different sectors of the community. A lot of people couldn't commit their time to the committee, so we decided to have a roundtable discussions and open that up to the hospitality industry, the liquor association, you know, different sectors that are represented in this city that do business with our city.
 Couldn't fit everybody on there a lot of time constraints with people so that's how we decided to be able to help that Issue out that you're talking about. Thank you other reports saying none We will move on alderman back for the appointments laid over well the mayor has been very
 Busy, busy man finding people who are going to serve on all of our various empty seats on our different committees that we appoint people. So just bear with me. Give me about an hour here. We should be able to get it all done. So under Roman numeral seven, item one, appointment to community action agency board of Barbara Chidley for a three-year term expiring August 2020. I'm going to skip item two because I'm going to handle that one separately.
 So item three, appointments to historic preservation for a three-year term of Val Olofsson and Olga Kampmeyer. Number four is appointment and reappointment to Rockford-Mass Transit District for a four-year staggered term. David Sidney, term to expire August 2021. Herbert Johnson is a reappointment, term to expire August 2022. Appointment to the Fire and Police Commission of Jessica Jones for a three-year term expiring 2020.
 Appointment number six is appointment and reappointment to the library board for a three-year term.
 Cesar Sanchez, filling a vacant position, expiring 2019. Henrietta Dotson-Williams, term expiring June 2020. Paul Logley, term expiring June 2019. Dawn Durkin, term expiring 2019. Jessica Colts, term expiring June 2018. Oliver Baird, term expiring June 2020. And Brad Long, term expiring June 2020.
 Number seven is appointments and reappointments traffic commission for a five year term. Michael Smith, term expiring August 2021. Tom Fagan, a term expiring August 2021. Don Bissell, term expiring August 2021. Fred Learman, term expiring June 2022. And Doc Ward, term expiring June 2022.
 Item eight is appointment to Radford Housing Authority for a five-year term of Jeff DiBenedetto and also Ken Oliver. Both their terms expire August 2019. Number nine is reappointments to the Building Board of Appeal for a five-year term. Mokhtar Mohamed, term expiring June 2017. Jennifer Spencer, term expiring in 2020.
 Joel Sjostom, term expiring 2022. I'm sorry, the previous one was 2022 as well. Brian Blakemore, term expiring June 2022. William Waldorf, term to expire June 2022. And Kelly Harlacher, term to expire June 2022. Number 10 is appointment and reappointments to electrical commission for a three-year term. Scott Beyer, term expiring June 30, 2022.
 Andy Kwiatkowski and Mark Prim, both have terms expiring June 2020. Appointment and reappointment to the Mechanical Board for a five-year term. Todd Whitlock and Richard Beck, both of them expiring June 2020. Number 12 is reappointment to the RAVE Board for a five-year term. Sunil Pari, term expiring June 2021, and Mike Dunn, term expiring June 2020.
 reappointment of the Police Pension Board, Scott Lowey for a term expiring June 2020, and appointment of Jaime Sanchez to the Rockford Housing Authority for a five-year term expiring September 2022. And these are to be placed up for passage, and then they will be official on October 1st, I believe. Except for 14 is not going to be... I'm sorry, yeah. That one is for October 18th.
 2017. So all the other ones would be taking effect on October 1st. Did you want to go back and touch on item two? Let's go ahead and vote on these. Is there a discussion on these, Alderman Hervey? Just a question. On number nine, Mr. Muhammad says that his term expires June 2017. I'm assuming that's 19? Yes. I'm guessing. Yes, it is. So you might want to make that a correction. Yep, thank you. Good catch. Thank you.
 Alderman can you honest these new appointees? Maybe I missed the boat here some To do all the men have resumes on their new appointees. Yes Other discussion seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll? That emphatic I I
 Thank you. The item passes. Alderman Beck? Thank you.
 Just for clarity, we know right now that the current ZBA, the reason why we're asking for this special date is we know today that the current ZBA members will not have a quorum tomorrow, and we know that by having new ZBA members, we've reached out to them that there would be a quorum. Mr. Cagnone. Thank you.
 No, there will not be a suspension of rules on the matter. Just that the original memo that the mayor published on August 7th stated that the effective date would be October 1st. So we just wanted to clear up the record and advise the council, with your permission, that the effective date will be upon passage this evening. Thank you. And Alderman Herb. Do not shorten any current member's term.
 by making this effective October 1st. We're not encroaching on anyone's existing term? No, we should not be encroaching on anyone's existing term. Okay, all right, just, okay. Is there further discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? So moved. Aye. Aye. Thank you, and we'll have at least one more round coming up.
 hopefully sooner than later, once I get a few more confirmations, and then probably a third round following in several months to some of these vacancies. We're trying to scatter them as we don't want to put any one board with all brand-new members. So they may still have vacancies or people on expired terms, and we're keeping it that way so that we can respect the process and make sure that current members have vacancies
 time to educate the new members and there's an onboarding process to those boards. Alderman Hervey, did you have a... I just wanted to ask when those come around and to mention to the public in general that there will be another wave of appointments to committees and if you could do the same thing you did last time, that was very helpful. I was
 very surprised at this response that we got from people who said, I'm interested, I want to serve. I think we did an excellent job of broadening the pool of people that we usually don't
 And I thought that was really a great thing. So because you did it that way and it wasn't just, hey, give me some names, it was here's the definitions, here's the terms, here's what the boards are, and I broadcasted that and was really pleased with the response that we got. So thank you for doing that. Please do it again. And to the public, there will be another round coming up continuously. So if you're thinking about it, can we post those on the website?
 The memo that you all did that had the definition of, well, not the definition, but the function of each committee? I believe they're already posted under each committee, but I'll confirm. Maybe it was on the old site and not on the new. I'll confirm. Okay. That was good. Thank you. I will say the response, thank you all for the work that you did getting it out. I feel bad that it's already gotten calls, but why wasn't I selected? We got hundreds of people who wanted to serve and just really appreciate the work that you all did to bring names forward.
 And many of the people that you have brought forward, I still have them on a list and may come back to you and say are they still interested just because we're doing the second wave and like I said, probably a third wave and then it'll be this ongoing process. But it's a lot to reach out to them all and get all their information and I really do appreciate it. Okay, moving forward under motions and resolutions, Alderman Durkee, you don't have any, is that correct? I didn't, huh?
 Okay, I don't see any there. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under motions and resolutions.
 I have two items. I'm going to hold out the third item. The first item is the review of the Code and Regulations Committee closed session minutes. The second is review of the City Council closed session minutes. The third item, I'm going to be holding that out until later this evening, Your Honor. So the first two items I place up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on these items? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye.
 Herbie, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, Shirelli, 12-I. Thank you. And Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. First is an awarded bid for private property tree removal program to Tree Care Enterprises of Rockford, Illinois, Flying W Tree Service of Belvedere.
 Busy Beaver Tree Care of Roscoe and Mark's Tree Care of Rockford for not to exceed value of $300,000.
 The contract duration is three years. Second is award of a bid for citywide sidewalk package number 5, 2017 to Campos Construction in the amount of $36,643. And the third item is award of non-competitive bid for NEC Global Workstation for latent fingerprint analysis to NEC Corporation of America of Irving, Texas in the amount of $50,580. Funding source is the 2014 JAG grant and police operating budget. And I place those three items up for passage.
 Thank you. Is there any discussion on those items? Alderman Herby. Is there another sidewalk package that will be out for bid this year? I'm sorry, is this the end? Mr. Stockton. There will be at least one more package come up for bid, possibly two depending on favorable pricing or not. The current package that we're voting on tonight is for Wards 5, 7, 9, 12, and 13.
 Thank you. And there was Alderman Thompson-Keller. Hi, yeah. My question is, item number three, the $50,580, is this including tech services with the software, Chief? Hello. Chief O'Shea, for number three, under finance and personnel for the noncompetitive NEC Global Workstation for latent fingerprint analysis, is this including technology
 Technology services. Yeah, it's just a software upgrade because it's like Windows 2003 that we're operating on and it's no longer allowed by the federal government, so we have to go to the new software. So it's just part of our regular operating budget that currently exists. We're just trying to get caught up with 2017 and a federal mandate that we have current software that's supported by Microsoft. Thank you. Is there further discussion on those items?
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Cherokee. Aye. Loganman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Hervey. I'm sorry, Frost. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. 12 ayes.
 Thank you. Moving on to new business. Alderman Durkee. I'd like to introduce one item under Roman numeral 9A. It's an ordinance approving the 2018 Community Action Plan for Community Services Block Grant. Please set up for passage. Thank you. Is there further discussion on this item? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye.
 Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Shirely. Aye. Eleven ayes, one no. Thank you. That item passes. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I have several items, ordinances this evening. An ordinance approving the annexation of 3502 20th Street. An ordinance approving the proposed sale of 4608 Auburn Street for a minimum bid of $5,000.
 Third is an ordinance to revise the language in the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 28-286, type of protection required to meet compliance with the Illinois Plumbing Code. The fourth item, Your Honor, in light of all the discussion that we've been having recently,
 I would like to talk to you further. The city administrator and my co-chair on the new committee were forming to see if that would be appropriate to bring to that committee for further discussion. And I would like to hold that item out this evening. Thank you. Since that is time, there was comments made about being friendly in the business environment in the city. Thank you.
 That's my reasoning for that. The fifth item is an ordinance approving amendments to section 2-407 and raising the threshold for requirement required competitive bids from 20,000 to 25,000 in accordance with HB 547. The sixth is an ordinance approving the second amendment to the intergovernmental agreement
 fixing the extra territorial boundaries for purposes of annexation between the City of Rockford and the City of Loves Park. I place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Frost? You said a question of point of order. We voted that passed the, we're talking about number four. It passed the committee, it's out of committee and it's now up for ordinance. I mean, unless someone's going to lay it over, I don't know if you can pull it out at this point.
 Could have pulled it at committee level, but I don't think you can pull it out now. Our rules allow the... I mean, you can... One sec. Can we allow the legal director to answer? Our rules allow the chair to hold it out. At the ordinance level? Correct. Can you give me the citation on that? I can look it up for you. I'm sorry? No, not right now. Well, I'll look it up. I mean, I think before we convene tonight, it would be important to know that that can happen. I don't think you can. I apologize. Just going to clarify here.
 One second. We got legal director? Sure. That would be our ordinance. It would be a procedure in Robert Shule's order. If you'd like, it would be easier to move to lay it over. Okay. Item number four has been laid over. Naomi takes two, correct? Okay. Okay.
 So, point of order, there's been a motion on the floor in a second to lay over item number four, so that could be heard by the new committee, the Financial Task Force.
 That vote also needs 10 votes for approval of it. So I think the understanding is to find out if this task force committee also sees that this is important. And if they don't, then it wouldn't be brought forward. If they do, it would. So they're asking for that layover. Been seconded. Clerk, will you please call a vote on laying over item number four? Turkey. Yes. I was told that we need to vote on it. Oh. All right.
 It's been laid over. Only committee reports. Thank you. Yes, it needs to be voted on. Logman. Tunberg. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. No. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. He said no. What was the vote on that? Huh? We didn't hear that vote. He said no. Thank you. Beck. Shirelli. Seven ayes, five noes. All right. Thanks. Thank you.
 You can in one second. Could you speak into a microphone so I can actually hear what you guys are saying? I've got a question to answer. Item passes. Right. Item's laid over. Alderman Beach, you had a follow-up question. If it's possible that the newly formed committee would suggest that this isn't something we should do, we've got a past committee report on it, and an order's laid over. I'm just asking procedurally, should we really have voted for it
 and then motion to consider it, and then send that thing back to committee. So it's off the whole thing completely. I would say procedurally it's already been laid over. But it's still active. True. And we can bring it back up after the committee reviews it and vote it up or down based on their recommendation. As an ordinance. True. Yes. Thank you. Okay, so now we still have other items out there. One, two, three. Okay.
 5 and 6. Any discussion on those items? Clerk, will you please call a vote? Durkee. Logeman. 9B, 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6. Toonberg. Frost. Hervey. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 12 ayes. Item number 5.
 8 ayes, 4 noes, and item number 6, 11 ayes, 1 noe. Thank you. Those items pass. Alderman Beck? Your Honor, I have one item. It's the ordinance approving the 2017 development agreement with Rockford Quarter Improvement for residential demolitions. I place it up for passage. Thank you. Is there further discussion on this item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the vote? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly Hoffman throws beach you know and it's back I sure really love I thank you and all the winter early you have a an extra item for us this evening yet my favorite item your honor I moved convene in closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters and labor negotiation matters
 Again. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Toonberg. Frost. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Chiarelli. 12 ayes. 12 ayes.