Turkey. Yes, bring me frost. Herbie urban's Thompson. Kelly Hoffman rose beach. Canona's back. McNeely surely 13 present. Thank you. So we have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on September 3rd 2019?
 We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. We've already done proclamations for the evening. We will move into petitions and communications. First up is Alderman Chiarelli for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 First item is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on September 17, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on September 30, 2019. Second is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the special meeting to be held on September 24, 2019, and those minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on September 30, 2019.
 The third is the LTAB's agenda for the meeting to be held on September 17, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on September 30, 2019. Thank you.
 Number four is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding a contract between the City of Rockford and Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. Number five is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 8055 Springbrook Road.
 Number six is a memorandum from Lafayette, Kyrie Yvonne assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 4630 Charles Street.
 Number seven is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, the land transactions officer, regarding a proposed temporary construction easement for a portion of 3805 West State Street to IDOT. Number eight is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, the project manager for permits and special events regarding upcoming special events for Rockford Roasting Company. Fifth anniversary, excuse me, celebration and Swift of Rockford.
 International Festival I refer all eight of those items to codes and regs your honor Thank You alderman Trelli next up We'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman. Thank you your honor. I have one memorandum from Lisa Warren head start director Regarding a head start with budget revision and I refer that to finance and personnel committee alderman. I believe there's Yep, I got the updated
 I have another one, which is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford, County of Winnebago, and the Winnebago County Emergency Telephone Systems Board for 911 call taking. And then I have a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and County of Winnebago for animal services. And these will also be referred to finance and personnel.
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. Next up, the moment we've all been waiting for since we passed our last budget, the 2020 budget presentation. We will have Director Haggerty provide us with it.
 And I'll just say before Director Haggerty begins, one, just a sincere thank you to yourself, your entire team, and all the departments that help provide all of this information so that we can get to where we're at this evening.
 Secondly, we all understand that you just received the budget information, I believe, on Friday. Probably didn't have tons of time, unless you were super bored this weekend, to dive deep into it.
 We understand Director Haggerty's going to provide a high level this evening. Many people will not have seen enough information or read enough information to have a lot of questions. We're going to be having sessions frequently for the next several months, so we will have plenty of time to dive deep into line by line if you so wish.
 Thank you, Mayor. So again, you know, I emailed out the PowerPoint presentation that we'll be going over on Friday. We did have one very minor update to that. So the most current copy is printed off on your desks. In addition, we've distributed proposed budget binders for your use as well. So if you have any questions, once you get some time to dig into those, please feel free to reach out. I'd be happy to answer specific questions on anything in there. Okay.
 I again just want to reiterate what Mayor said this is the first presentation we will at a minimum have a second presentation covering the general fund forecast the redevelopment fund and the parking fund so if you have specific questions on those funds or those topics just know that you will have another presentation to follow this one we wanted to cover you know the big topics general fund and the
 the property tax levy in tonight's presentation so if you have questions on anything specifically that you would like covered in a future budget session please reach out to me directly or questions generally i'm happy to answer
 So just sort of a highlight, understanding that we have gone through several exercises over the last couple of years to try to optimize our budget, make sure we're operating as efficiently as possible, and adopt best practices. Between the Finance Task Force and the NRN, National Resource Network Study, we have implemented several of the recommendations that came out of those two processes.
 I think the biggest financial impact successfully negotiated employee health contribution increases with all but one employee group and those were negotiated through our collective bargaining process. So we have implemented billing convenience fees in lieu of a water system pilot or sale that were recommended by NRN. We are paying for pothole patching and parade and tourism costs from special revenue sources as recommended by the finance task force.
 investment in crime prevention strategies with long-term payoff, like Family Peace Center and the Camp Hope, that will be considered this evening. That was an NRN recommendation. Increase ambulance collections through fee-scheduled revisions. And again, just to point out that we did that with, while at the same time, reducing out-of-pocket exposure for residents. That was an NRN recommendation.
 vacant property registration and creating a regional land bank and continuing to return city-owned property to the market. I would like to wait until you get through. Go ahead. Alderman. What do you, please explain vacant property registration. What are you going to do with that?
 So, Council approved a process for vacant and foreclosing property registrations. I don't know if Director Franzen can give a little more specific details on how that's moving forward. I just wanted to know if there was any changes to what we have already agreed to do.
 to do oh no it hasn't and this council did set by annual fees for both residential and commercial properties and that registration is taking place at this time
 Have we started? We have started collecting. I don't have the specifics of how much we've collected so far or any projections, but I'd be happy to gather those for you. Okay, I would. And have we started collecting commercial property information because that's something that we didn't have information on? I believe we have, but let me get exactly where we're at in terms of registrations, both residential, commercial, and the dollar amounts associated with each. Thank you. I appreciate it.
 Yeah, this slide is just intended to be sort of a recap of issues that council has already considered. I just want to remind everybody that we don't go through these exercises and then put the recommendations on a shelf, right? We're actually reviewing these recommendations, looking for ways that we can implement them either as they come out of the group that's making the recommendation or modified to fit what works best in this community. So, and those efforts will continue.
 So pending major budget changes, and I want to make sure that it's clear that these, while these are very much so anticipated changes down the line, these are not incorporated into the 2020 budget, would be the Rockford Casino. Obviously anticipate that that will generate not only gaming tax, but sales and metro taxes and permit revenue. Wow.
 i'm sorry property taxes without a clear understanding of projected tax revenue at this point as well as the timing of issuance of the license by the gaming board we have not programmed any specific revenue into this budget when we have a clear idea of of the timing for that we will come back to city council recommendations
 recreational and I apologize, I'm this should say cannabis, not marijuana, but recreational cannabis, obviously the 3% tax that's being considered by council this evening, not only our base 1% city, I'm sorry, statewide sales tax
 the CAP sales tax and the additional 3% that council is considering. Again, timing on the issuance of those licenses by the state for the two current medical dispensaries is unknown, as is sales volume. So we will provide recommendations as that revenue, we actually start collecting that revenue, we understand the timing and have an idea of how much revenue we anticipate that.
 generating so I just want to make sure that everyone understands that these are not incorporated into this budget as proposed Just a quick question on
 The revenue generator that's anticipated from recreational marijuana. There's another other municipalities or states that have actually suffered Negative costs because of it. So when we look at revenue projections Will we use you know some somebody's analysis or metrics to?
 to help us with costs either in police calls or things like that. I mean, it's out there. So when you talk about revenue, it's gonna be in a manner of net revenue. Certainly.
 Certainly. So we, you know, obviously as licenses are issued and we understand how exactly everything moves forward with that, with the state law change, you know, we'll continue to have discussions about impacts on operational costs. Future budgets will obviously include not only the revenue component, but any additional staffing or resources that would be necessary to address growth and calls for service.
 But that information for the vacant property register, could you also give Alderman Thunberg a copy of that information? Because that's what we were nailed on at Signal Hill Thursday. Thank you.
 Okay, so fund consolidation I just want to remind everybody that we began this process in 2019 with the consolidation of the sanitation fund and the audit fund into the general fund Which account for a fairly significant jump in the total general fund budget in 2019 We will continue this practice of consolidation
 based on recommendations from our auditors and best practice in municipal finance. This budget reflects a consolidation of the tuberculosis sanitarium fund and the justice assistance grant fund into the general fund, as well as the special revenue fund, which is OTB proceeds into the redevelopment fund. None of these are significant in the budget,
 Big overall big picture just wanted to make sure you understood those were previously separate budget units that will now be consolidated into existing funds
 Okay, so general fund revenue projected for 2020 is 163 million dollars The breakdown by source has not changed dramatically year over year Except that you know me as I mentioned the utility taxes that came on in 2019 represent a bigger piece and they have traditionally as well as the other taxes that includes the the
 Sanitation fund fees. I'm sorry sanitation user fees that would have otherwise been in the sanitation fund that moved in 2019 and that obviously continues in 2020. Yes, sir. Oh actually If you turn the page with some numbers beside that pie chart Some of the questions that I had when I look at the actual in 18 and the numbers for the 20 budget Will you explain?
 why some of them have such a high swing. Other taxes up $4 million.
 charge of other services down 17 million transfers and miscellaneous down 7 million talk to us about that so property taxes this is really collection so we had a particularly low collection rate in 2018 which we anticipate you know we would we would recover we we budget what we levy and then what's actually collected is what the county is able to collect from taxpayers and
 Other taxes, this reflects increases primarily in income tax and use tax that are collected at the state level and distributed. Licenses and inspections, there isn't a dramatic change there. Intergovernmental, I apologize, income tax falls under intergovernmental. So that increase there is income tax and replacement tax.
 Charges for services, this increase here is where you see the garbage user fees. So when we moved the sanitation fund into the general fund, that revenue came in here. I see, okay. Fines, again, not a dramatic increase there. And transfers, decreases here in part because we had the elimination of the purchase of services from the sanitation fund to the general fund.
 So now that that whole function is moved to the general fund, we don't have to move money back and forth between the sanitation and general funds. In addition, we had at least two one-time transfers in 2018 from the health fund and the workers' comp fund due to overcharging and trying to align those funds and their fund balances appropriately. So those $2 million transfers both fell off after 2018. Okay.
 we would consider that to be one-time revenue and i can give you more specific more detailed breakdown if you would like to see that alderman
 Is the sanitation fund, since it moved into the general fund, still considered an enterprise fund? It was never an enterprise fund. It was considered a special revenue fund. But it was all user-funded? It was. At the time it was eliminated. That had not always been the case. It was.
 When I started here, it was half property taxes, half user fees. The property tax component declined over time and shifted to full user fees, but it's not considered an enterprise fund. Okay, but was that, I'm thinking of specifically before we put in forestry and some of those things. It was all user fund based at that time. It was all user funded. Yes. But it was not considered an enterprise fund. And that's a general government purpose. It's not considered a utility.
 for accounting purposes so it doesn't yeah it never operated as a as an enterprise fund okay but are there any surplus funds does does the temp sanitation fund generate any excess funds
 on an annual basis? Not beyond the services that we've already determined that we're covering from the, so the street sweeping and forestry. Okay, so with all of those, even if there were excess funds from collection? It's intended to cover those costs. To cover the other costs. Okay. Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. And just a quick question. Revenue increase is projected to be $5.9 million. How ambitious are those numbers?
 I am a conservative finance director. I would rather provide you with a monthly report that says we're overperforming than have to execute a mid-year budget reduction. So these are revenue estimates that, you know, absent some unforeseen economic downturn, I am reasonably assured that we will meet.
 So then to highlight major elastic revenue sources, these are the primary revenue sources we have that are subject to economic conditions. Sales tax, you can see a moderate increase here. That is based on the one component of the state budget that impacts our budget that we have incorporated in here is the applicability of our budget
 our sales tax to internet purchases. So the state now requires that any vendor that sells more than $100,000 of goods in the state of Illinois to collect Illinois sales tax. And that will go into effect July 1st. So we're anticipating a very conservative 3% increase in sales tax as a result of that. So we're budgeting here 3% half a year for that increase.
 There were a number of states that were collecting Illinois sales tax on online purchases going back as far as, I'd say probably four years ago. Were we the recipients of...
 Yes. So if there was a physical presence that, for example, Amazon, right? Amazon had a physical presence. Once they had a physical presence in Illinois, so they had distribution facilities, then the state could come in and say, now you have to collect our sales tax. So this would apply to anybody who wasn't already collecting it, to retailers with no physical presence in the state of Illinois. Okay. Okay.
 Use tax, we're adjusting based on current collections and IML estimates. Replacement tax, similar movement in the budget. Same with income tax. Utility tax, that includes
 as it did in 2019, a full year of our two new utility taxes, which are performing as indicated when you combine the two. But we are budgeting for a reduction in our phone tax, which has declined significantly.
 year over year for the last decade or so. So we've got about a 3% reduction in phone tax receipts, which is reflected here. So you can see 4.4% total increase in our elastic revenue sources, which is one of the best increases we've seen in some time. Yes. The 7% communications tax. Yes. Where does that go in opposition to the telephone, which is landline?
 So the telecommunications tax applies to both landlines and cell phones. It only applies to the portion of your bill, though, that is actual voice services. So it doesn't apply to your device rental or device lease payments, which is oftentimes a fairly significant piece of your cell phone bill. It doesn't apply to data either.
 and which is why as landlines decline and as cell phone bills the voice portion of your cell phone bill that becomes a smaller piece of your total bill that revenue continues to drop but that that percentage very often for my own self cell bill is 16 18 dollars it's a huge portion yeah of the overall bill so that's got to be covering something more than just the voice
 portion. It just seems like it's such a big amount, large amount.
 And I don't know if that, and it's been a while since I've looked at it, that might include state-level taxes as well, but I can look at it. But I know that there has been some significant push on the municipal side to increase the applicability of that tax, which has met resistance at the federal level because of how those service providers are defined. And then last thing, you used to give us, and it was very good,
 a definition of use tax replacement, what was incorporated into all of this. Could you redistribute that, especially for some who are new? Yep, I will do that. When you figure out your increases...
 You're doing it off of the 19 budget rather than the actual 18, right? We're looking at all of those things. We're looking at 18 actual receipts. We're looking at 19 budget. We're looking at 19 year-to-date performance. We're also looking at estimates that the IML –
 commissions essentially for municipalities. They publish on a monthly basis, monthly estimates moving forward for most of these major revenue sources statewide. So we kind of look at all of those numbers before we land on a specific increase. Okay, thank you. Certainly. So again, and I've gone over most of this already, but major elastic changes, the sales tax increase
 Includes that new internet sales tax law, utility includes the telecom tax, which has continued to decline over time, and income and use tax. We had healthy increases and based on not only actual collections, but estimates provided by IML.
 So general fund expense, also $163 million. Again, not a significant change year over year, although the capital portion has declined as we were only asking for $3 million instead of the $5 million in vehicle replacements this year. And benefits has increased with the increase in not only our pension contribution, but also health and IMRF.
 So expense by department, police and fire continue to represent a growing percent of the total general fund budget. So expenses overall increase just under $6.2 million with, as I mentioned, pension, IMRF, and health insurance driving the majority of that budget growth. As you can see...
 Increases of $3 and $2 million, respectively, in police and fire, again, largely driven by pension contribution increases as well as contractual wage increases. Public works declined slightly, but that was largely due to $1 million less in capital equipment purchases year over year.
 a slight increase in community and economic development, and in support departments. So a total 3.9% increase in expenses year over year. Well, that was almost like $10 million from actual expenses in 2018 under C&E development. Yes, and again, oh, again, that's the consolidation of the sanitation fund.
 Okay. All right. So just to kind of break down that $6.2 million, about $2.2 is from pensions, another $200,000 or so from IMRF, $2 million in wage increases overall, and $1.8 million in health contributions. So it's really all on the personnel side. Vehicle replacements, so this is year three of the five-year plan that was approved in 2018. Okay.
 The 2020 program includes $3.8 million in equipment purchases in the general fund. That $3.8 is offset by revenue from lease proceeds. That is down $1.9 million from the $5.8 that was approved for 2019. And we'll provide more specifics on that plan as those individual purchases move forward.
 So pension and IMRF funding, obviously this is a big factor in this year's budget. IMRF lowered their actuarial interest rate assumption, which drove up contribution rates for all participating municipalities. We went from a contribution of 9.33% of pay in 2019 to 12.05% in 2020. So that's...
 IMRF gives us a percent. It's smoothed over time, just like our own pension contributions are. And just like we see on our end, when that actuarial rate of return is lowered, costs in immediate contributions go up. 2.189 million increase in public safety pension contribution, as we've discussed, about 12.4%.
 So, and just a reminder that our updates to our funding policy for 2020 include the mortality table adjustments and step one of a multi-year plan to lower our own interest rate assumption. Just an illustration of pension funding as it compares to the general fund over time.
 You can see here in 2013 was when the state passed legislation moving the funding policy from 100% by 2030 to 90% by 2040. So we had sort of a bit of a reset here, but we're traveling on the same path now. And this jump here from 18 to 19 in the general fund, again, is that sanitation fund consolidation.
 Since 2013, our 2013 pension contribution was $9.5 million, and this year it's $19.9 million, just to put it into context.
 Staffing changes, and this is throughout the budget, not just the general fund, but our finance department staffing drops one as we eliminate a vacant accountant position. Police staffing increases one for the proposed Camp Hope coordinator.
 fire staffing increases to an ESDA coordinator position to be reimbursed by Winnebago County that the council has already approved as well as the equipment specialist that we're using we're billing out billable repairs to area fire protection districts again council's already considered that engineering and CAP staffing increases too
 a senior engineering technician that was already approved by council in early 2019. And then this budget adds a project manager that will work in both engineering and CAP and water. And then our human services staffing increases 7.29 total FTEs with funding and program changes. Those are all grant funded positions. So the net change in the general fund staffing is 2.6. Yes.
 Are these staffing changes, these are already positions that are already approved in the departments not new? These are all changes from what was approved in part of the 2019 budget. So obviously Camp Hope, you guys are
 Gonna vote on later tonight. Yeah These two fire staffing positions council has already been presented with the information and voted to either add or approve moving forward with these The same thing with the senior engineering technician position in Engineering and CAP that person's already here. They were approved in earlier in 2019. So the only net change
 that would go into effect in January that hasn't already been acted on by council would be the project manager that split between engineering and CAP and the elimination of the position in finance. And those staffing changes are calculated in the budget? Yes, they are included, yes.
 I lied. I did have another one. And I may be incorrect about this, but I was under the belief that there is a position, one or two, in code enforcement that has gone unfilled now. I think we're going into this is the second year. I'm not sure exactly what the cause is,
 But we're down two people. And I just wonder, are they purposely not being filled? Are they frozen? And what is that going to do? Because if we've been moseying along for a couple of years without them, I really want to push that those positions be filled in 2020.
 because we need them desperately in in some of our areas we're just not getting things done i've got people cars sitting on the street i got one down the street from my house that's been there for four weeks and that there's a lot of quality of life issues that are suffering um
 and we need those staff put those positions filled. Director Franzen could you address that? So all authorized positions in code enforcement are filled have been filled. We did modify one into the assistant neighborhood stabilization officer to really reinforce the code enforcement efforts especially as it relates to property standards relationship with code enforcement.
 we are experiencing some operational difficulties now we do have a a clerk in code enforcement uh who accepts the position in public works that we are currently replacing um and having to backfill that workload with uh with some of our inspectors assistance and then some um some uh
 Leave and vacation at this time. So all of the code enforcement officers the boots on the ground that are responding to requests for service to evaluate vacant properties or Sanitation issues all of those positions are filled correct. I stand corrected Your Honor can I add some clarification on that?
 Alderman, not in this budget year, but previously in 2018, we did have an issue related to eligibility of code enforcement staff under the CDBG rules, which restricted us from moving forward with hiring all those positions at that time. But we made that correction in the 2019 budget so that we could go back and hire those folks.
 So in essence we shifted money from the general fund to code enforcement versus relying on CDBG But those adjustments were made in 2019. Thank you Yeah, I bet there Actually this dovetails on all of them in her these comment given the problem that we have with blighted properties and trouble with actually with code enforcement is the staff that staffing level that we have now adequate to do the job and
 Well, I know my code enforcement staff would certainly appreciate additional resources as they are forced to, given the number of complaints and violations that come in from a multitude of people,
 of avenues forced to be very reactionary. You know, we are attempting to take proactionary steps, both with some sweeps in some of your awards in conjunction with our community service officers and how we're tailoring some of the code enforcement activities that we are able to do with CDBG and linking that to our rehab program activities.
 But and bringing on additional interventions like the vacant property registry so that we can have early identification of cases and engagement with property owners and potential solutions as early as possible and
 and i would just add and i'll come right back to alderman durkee but i mean if you recall the nrn report i would say almost nearly all of our departments are quote unquote understaffed we have one-third less employees of all compared to all of our comparable cities yeah and i'm sorry alderman oh so i i was i was just going to put words in carl's mouth and say the answer is no right
 You could do the same to Glenn. Yeah. Cherise. So that's an excellent segue into my next slide here. General fund authorized staffing, you know, there's just evidence of the
 the prioritization of public safety staffing in the police department over the last ten years and you know the city's commitment to while operating with fewer staff doing our best to do so without reductions in service to the residents and I think most of us would say that we've done an excellent job doing so and as mayor mentioned at staffing levels that are significantly lower than our counterparts throughout the state
 But there are 753.7 total FTEs for the general fund for this budget. Investment in capital. So this proposed budget includes repairs to existing facilities at City Hall and City Yards, implementation of year three of the vehicle replacement plan, as I already mentioned, and then another $300,000 in necessary improvements to fire stations. Again, trying to address the most pressing concerns at those locations.
 which puts us at a general fund position of just under 58,000 positive. So we are presenting a balanced budget this evening.
 A property tax levy overview. This should be short, not much change, but again, just to reiterate, two variables affect that each individual taxpayer's tax bill, the amount of revenue or the levy the city determines is needed, and then the equalized assessed valuation or property value that shares that burden amongst the taxpayers.
 The way that the bill is calculated is the levy divided by the EAV. That gives you a rate, and that times the individual owner's EAV gives you the tax bill.
 We are recommending in this budget a flat property tax levy as you can see for the second year in a row now There's no debt service component on on the city's tax bill and on our levy the last piece of the Property tax supported road referendum debt was paid off in 2018. We levied for it in 2017 Operationally, we don't anticipate any additional revenue from property taxes. We are recommending that flat levy
 And the projected rate decreases 4.4% or just shy of 14 cents due to the anticipated 7% increase in assessed valuation. That number was provided to us about a month ago from the county clerk's office.
 We anticipate that once all of the assessment challenges are educated, we get a final EAV in the spring. It will be something less than 7%, but we don't anticipate a dramatic change from what we've been provided. But we will provide that final information to City Council once it's available. Yes. Thank you. On this debt service, is that debt service from the general fund? That would be voter-approved debt.
 So that would be any referendum supported bond issues that are paid exclusively by property taxes So any any debt that's being paid out of the redevelopment fund is not demonstrated No, that is not because we don't pay for it by property taxes paid for with other sources. I
 Thank you. You're welcome. So again, this is just an illustration of the effect that the EAV has on the total rate. You can see here. It's been some time since we were below 3 dollars and that was 2012. I believe there. So, as the starts to recover here, we get in conjunction with holding the levy flat. We get great relief over time.
 alderman hervey so will taxpayers see that rate i don't know how to convert the the change in eav the rate that they are charged per thousand is that expected to drop below 14 percent uh not or 14 knowing for sure what all of the other taxing bodies are going to do the you know levies don't have to be filed until december oh so we've got
 a few months before we know what everyone is doing and then on top of that the rate won't be finalized until probably March or April when all of the assessment reviews are completed so you know obviously we've had some indications the school district for example the biggest piece has committed to holding their levy flat you know understanding that that's not done until the levees filed with the county clerk's office but we're hopeful that that will be the case obviously
 assuming that any and an individual's property increases the 7% that citywide EAV increases and everyone holds their levy flat there won't be a change in the dollar amount of the taxes paid but the rate will be lower and your value will be higher the rate is what people notice and I think everybody would like to see the dollars go down but when people see that rate creeping to 15 yeah per
 percent that's what just so two years ago we were at 15.1 now we're at 14.2 right yeah I would say you have an incredibly high likelihood to be in 13 low mid 13s and people do notice that I mean I get confused by it on a daily basis but people people notice that when they look at that tax bill and see that that it's not the multiplier but that's what people call it multiplier how much
 am i going to be multiplied by to get my final taxes absolutely so again this is our total levy that consists of a variety of categories or funds that we are allowed to levy for under state law so this just breaks that down by purpose that that we have that the city has levied for historically yes sir so so help me understand again then if we are paying no debt out of general fund
 This line down here, 2.98, a rate for levies of debt service. Is that money that's collected even though we have no debt to pay? Levees of debt service here is zero. But above that, there's a number. Oh, I apologize. That's a... It's property taxes, right? Okay.
 I mean, the way it's listed here would look to me like we're authorized to collect $48 million. It looks like we've included that. It's not included in the total here. I apologize. I'm not sure how that got on there, but we are not levying anything. We are not recommending a levy. This may be the amount that we end up abating. Right now, we go through a process to abate property taxes for all of our debt service. And I apologize. I'm not sure how that made it on this worksheet. Okay. Thank you.
 but we will obviously council will consider the levy specifically and we will give you a detailed breakdown of levy by purpose and you will have an opportunity to review and discuss that independent of this presentation so again um yes question on the uh the hope
 y prosiect Camp. O ble mae'r arian hynny'n dod o? Rwy'n gwybod bod y gwybodaeth yn dweud bod y Gweithiol, ond maen nhw dros y cyllideb. Felly, o ble mae'r arian hynny'n dod o?
 Yn y llineau yma. Mae'n cael ei gymryd yn y budjet 2020 ac wedi'i ddarparu gyda fudiau cyffredinol hyd at y cyfnod y grant. Felly yn y budjet 2019, yn amlwg, nawr, rydym yn disgwyl y cyd-dau ar y cyfnod o ran ein perfformiad ar ddiwedd y flwyddyn, er y bydd y budjet y Ddeddf Gweinidog yn benodol efallai o'r budjet. Nid ydyn nhw'n
 Mae'n dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda. Mae'r cyfrif yn dda.
 Rwy'n ddim yn siŵr beth yw'r tax ar gynyddol y ffwrdd ffwrdd, y tax ar gynyddol y ffwrdd ffwrdd. A yw unrhyw un o hynny'n llwyddo i'r cymunedau fel rhan o'r arian amrywiol? Ie, rydym yn amlwg arall arall o 1.9 miliwn yn arian MFT a fydd yn cael ei rhagweithio fel rhan o'r cyflwyniad CIP. Iawn, felly gyda rhai o'r arian hynny,
 A ydym ni'n gwybod ble y byddwn yn mynd i ddatblygu'r arian hynny? Ydych chi'n siarad am yr arian MFT? Mae MFT yn dda. Dwi'n siarad amdani. Roedd hynny'n enghraifft ddewis. Ond, er enghraifft, ganrif casinog, ganrif canabwys. Nid ydym wedi cael y drafodaeth hwnnw fel grŵp. Rydym yn mynd i'r afael â'r arian. Roeddwn i wedi mynd am amser, felly doeddwn i ddim yn gwybod beth ydym yn ei wneud. Nid ydym wedi'i wneud, ond rydym yn gwneud y draf
 Rwy'n deall bod gennym gyfrifon cyflogol mawr ond rwy'n credu bod tynnu'r gyda'r ddynion a chynhyrchu economaidd yn unig. Rwy'n hoffi gweld ein bod yn cadw arian i mewn i rywbeth ac nid edrych ar ymwneud â chyfrifon ein cynyddion o ran ein cynyddion oherwydd rwy'n bwysig ein bod yn ceisio mynd yn ôl i ddewis.
 i fwyaf ein bas economaidd, a dwi'n meddwl mai dyna ffordd ddifonol i'w wneud yn hytrach na defnyddio arian eraill sydd ar gael. Ydy, fe fyddwn ni'n cael y sgwrsion hynny oherwydd mae gennym fwy o wybodaeth am, fel y dywedais, y cyfnod a'r amrywiaeth ymchwil. Ie, sir. Ac roedd hynny'n fy cwestiwn. O ran y sleid y gawesteb ar y ddangos y gwerth cynydd o 5.9 miliwn, rydych chi wedi cael ymdriniaethau ar rhan
 ond efallai y gallech chi ddarparu rhwng breg-dyn fel, chi'n gwybod, trefi arall o 17 i 20 yn mynd o 32.7 i 43.8 miliwn. Ie. Byddai'n braf gwybod beth fyddai'n... Ie, gallaf ddarparu adnoddau addas ar, chi'n gwybod, rydyn ni'n gwneud llinell ar y cyfan cyffredinol ein holl arian, ac byddwn i'n hapus i ddarparu'r lefel hwnnw o adnoddau os ydych chi'n hoffi. Ie, byddai hynny'n wych. Ie. Ydych chi'n gwybod.
 okay so uh just to wrap up the property tax um presentation here i would be failing to do my job if i didn't tell you that maintaining that flat levy means that we're leaving about 1.05 million dollars in revenue on the table that the city could otherwise collect under ptel continued growth in the eav will alleviate pressure on our limited rates which have been a concern over the last several years and create operational flexibility
 Obviously, property taxes are the primary funding source for pensions, and flat levies mean fewer resources to fund general fund operations as pension contributions continue to rise.
 Alderman Thompson-Killey. So your 20—I waited until you called on me this time. So your 2020 numbers does not include the tax levy increase, nor does it include fee increases. Does it include—well. We have some general growth in things like business licenses, building permits, those things. We will put a specific—
 fee schedule in front of council for consideration as part of the budget process that we can discuss we assume you know anywhere between a two to three percent growth annually in that type of revenue not just from increased activity but also increases in fees so we will when we provide that to you we will give you estimates on new revenue production that if we are to forego we need to make adjustments in the budget otherwise to make that up thank you you're welcome
 Director Haggerty. Certainly. Again, if you have any specific questions on anything covered tonight or anything that you would like us to see specifically cover in a future budget meeting, please feel free to reach out. So next up, moving along, we have New Committee Reports and Planning and Development Committee Alderman Roest. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have four items tonight. The committee recommends approval of an amendment to the Rockford River Edge Redevelopment Zone designating ordinance for the purpose of applying to the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity to expand and limit property tax abatement incentives.
 The second item is similar ones committee recommends approval of an amendment to the Rockford I-90 enterprise zone designating ordinance for the purpose of applying to Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity to expand and limit property tax abatement incentives and
 The committee recommends approval of an amendment to the Rockford Enterprise Zone number one, designating ordinance for the purpose of applying to Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity to expand and limit the property tax abatement incentives.
 And finally, number four, the committee recommends approval of the proposed intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority for the acquisition of certain properties through the abandonment proceedings. I place those items forward. Thank you. So you have four items before you. Is there any discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelly? And item number four, do we know what the land bank is going to be doing with all that land? Mr. Pagnoni?
 Thank you, Your Honor. Their intent is to disrupt properties that are blighting in our neighborhoods, and then the plan would be to get them back in the private sector as soon as possible. They're starting off slowly in identifying properties, and so they'll probably take six to a dozen properties countywide to utilize the IDA grant that they have and reposition these properties, but ultimately they want to get them back into the private sector. And how long are they supposed to have them in?
 How long are they supposed to take in this process? Is it three years? Well, I mean, they hope to build a sustainable practice and process so that they continue to take on additional blighted properties and turn them back into the private sector. So it could likely take anywhere from six to 12 months for a property, but once they dispose of the property in a responsible way, they'd take on another property. Any other questions? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye.
 Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Urbans. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Groves. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. No. Schiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item number 4, 12 ayes, 2 noes.
 Committee recommends reversing the zoning Board of Appeals denial for a variation to increase the maximum sign height permitted from 8 feet to 14 feet and our E zoning districts at 34 45 Elmwood Road subject to conditions place that up for passage your honor Thank you. So you have one item before you is there any discussion on that one item saying no discussion clerk Would you please call the roll? Turkey? Yes, preemie. I
 Toomer frost Herbie Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Kenones back McNeely Shirely 13 eyes 1 no Thank you. Next up. We have all those that item passes next up. We have finance and personnel committee alderman back Thank you, Your Honor. We have to report approval of vouchers and
 In the amount of $4,433,599.64, we have the approval of the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership non-federal share waiver request in the amount of $138,556 for the grant period ending June 30th, 2019.
 We have the committee report recommending approval of the EMS Resource Hospital Agreement with Swedish American Health System. Contract commences on January 1, 2020 and may be extended for five years. Additional one-year terms, I'm sorry, for five additional one-year terms upon mutual agreement of both parties. There's no cost to the city.
 Number four is recommending approval of an ordinance imposing a municipal cannabis retailers occupation tax. And number five is recommending approval of an ordinance authorizing the city to utilize funds from the public water supply loan program at the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and application of loan for future phases. The city will borrow $2.5 million per year for three years.
 for a total of seven point five million dollars and in addition staff opera also recommends that accounts of approval to submit a long application nearly to the i e p a my places i have five items of her passage thank you see if i've had a bit for you is there any discussion on those five items alderman back for beach answer so if they get her of just help me here the total model only seven point five million will each of the loans
 be separate year by year, and if that's true, then we set up a new interest rate, a new payment. It's not gonna be total, is that correct? Director Saunders? Okay. Yes. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg? Thank you, Mayor. Item three for the EMS Resource Hospital Agreement. When this was first brought to my attention, I've always wondered why a program,
 this size and magnitude has not gone out for RFP I've had conversations with with chief Bergsten on it and I appreciate that he was very insightful I would say the least to the least on that all right he was very insightful didn't want to mix that up but you know I when we have
 i believe as a city we are held to what i thought was things of this magnitude and this nature would be put out to rfp somewhere on the line i guess i could be wrong but i have heard that this was not put out for rfp previously and that kind of set the standard um i wouldn't
 necessarily agree back then that it shouldn't have been put out for RFP if we go back in a time machine. I don't know how it came about that it wasn't put out for RFP. When we look at what we have in front of us regarding the casino, we have a whole slew of independent consultants, lawyers, to go out there and look and see what is in the best interests of our city.
 and our citizens, and then they come back and give us a recommendation. They help us in determining what maybe we can ask from these different organizations, i.e. the casinos, the operators, and maybe what they can do to help us along in various ways. And we've always strived to get more than one proposal
 I just don't see why this wasn't gone out for RFP and also if there is one organization that is one entity, one hospital in this case, that is willing to give us as a city something, maybe there's another hospital that would be willing to give more like the casino, like we were looking at in the casinos.
 that there wasn't any independent consulting done to Give us a scoring system or a health score To show what may be the what entity is best for this? I'm just I'm perplexed. You know, it's the health we're looking out for the health and welfare of our community Regarding this, you know
 For full disclosure, I have a non-immediate family relative that's on a board of another hospital. I was born at Rockford Memorial on Rockton. We chose to have our daughter born at Swedes, and I'm a patient of OSF. So I say I'm a full equal opportunity health care citizen of our community, but I just...
 have a an issue with a program of this magnitude being a political decision per se versus having the input and you know if it went up for RFP and We see a this has nothing and may I stress nothing against Swedes. I think Swedes is a great hospital You know, they employed dr. Durkee so they but
 I root for them. I root for the other two health systems. I think it makes Rockford a place on the map regionally that we have great health care here. Swedes may be the best out of all three of them for this program, but we'll never really know what to compare it to if the other health care systems do not care to be a part of this
 Let us know. And an RFP would show us that. If OSF wants out, they can either not RFP or they can put together a half you-know-what job and they would be immediately ousted on it. Mercy, same thing. But we'll never know.
 and we'll never know what the other systems have to offer because it wasn't put out for rfp i have again no i stress no issue with swedes great organization
 I will be voting no tonight strictly based on the process. I have Nothing but respect for chief Bergston. I'm a friend of the fire Department I would say and they do a great job. So it has nothing to do with that either It's strictly the process of not putting this out for RFP that I have an issue with. Thank you Thank you. And just
 It can all come to me on this one. So I would say a couple of things. One, you're 100% correct. We have three phenomenal health systems, and we are really fortunate. And really some would argue a fourth with Crusader and the wonderful work that they do. Secondly, I would push back a little bit on being at political. I would say that's 100% inaccurate. I would say what it is is...
 a mayor and administration listening to our fire department i think when we went out to get input as a previous contract was coming to a close what we i'll just speak for myself what i thought of was we have a chief who happens to be the head of a fire department that is one of 10 in the entire country that is dual accredited for both police and ems
 That makes us a little different than your comparison with a casino. We don't have someone who's, you know, went through this process before. Not only is there no money involved, we don't have the expertise in casino negotiations, discussing with operators, doing all those things.
 Apples and oranges obviously and I know you understand that but we don't have the expertise internally. I would argue that we have tremendous expertise internally when it comes to Selecting a resource hospital not only have we went through it, but we have the experts on our staff And we're fortunate to have that I would have lastly say I
 I think from the city standpoint, all have been a very good partner to the city. And I believe most recently, I think if you look over the last several years, the partnership that Swedes has continued to do with the city of Rockford and what they offer in this agreement, having a nurse stationed at the 911 facility, the mobile integrated health program, which I believe all hospitals were involved
 provided that opportunity some even went through the pilot process and then chose not to continue for so there's a host of factors that went in but i would say couple things one hundred-percent political i was born at all that stuff uh... to uh... uh... i think uh... we do have the consultants in the expertise actually sitting here alderman top and maybe the chief can share some history uh... with this
 not going up to bid, OSF having the contract, and Swedes having the contract. But I'm sure the chief can share the history that we've had with us. Chief, would you like to share any history? Sure. First, I want to say thank you to all the aldermen who took my phone calls all over the last two weeks and asked questions, even Mr. Tunberg.
 So we do have a long history with our resource hospitals. We are a very unique community in the state of Illinois. There's no other fire department that has such a...
 positive relationships with the resource hospitals that really want to provide that service to us. We did not go off for bid last time and I will thank the Mayor and the administration for allowing us to have input this time around. Because it is a huge impact on what we do in the final level of service that we provide to the citizens. And we look for someone to continually push us and to make us better to provide the highest level of service and have the best outcomes for the patients.
 But yeah, it was this go around and my opinion it was apolitical that the mayor and city manager came and said, you know, what do you want to do? And we take this very seriously what we do, the level of training to all of our EMTs, paramedics and the 80 EMS calls we respond to a day and the partnerships. We work well with all three hospitals. We do training. We have a training coming up with Mercy on stroke.
 A training with OSF because we take patients to all three hospitals. This just goes a step further of who's going to be in charge, what doctor's medical license are we going to operate under, and who's going to push us to be the best that we possibly can be. And then also the partnerships we've had over the past with Swedes, how they've stepped up with our mobile integrated health program, with the health data exchange that comes along with this contract.
 with having a nurse working in our 911 center to help triage calls. Ideas that they brought to us and we're very supportive of to have that and that's kind of the relationship we're looking for. Nothing despairingly about the other two hospitals. We have great relationships and we'll continue to have great relationships because we are partners with them. We train with them with disaster preparedness, other emergency response.
 And nothing's going to change with this, and we'll continue on that same professionalism with all three hospitals. But I think this is a good move and a positive move for the fire department and the city and its residents.
 Alderman Herbert. Yeah, I think most of my fellow aldermen know I used to be very bullish about ensuring that the city followed bidding and RFP guidelines. The reason I flipped on that was because I looked at the huge amount of work that it takes for the RFPs for these resource hospitals. I didn't even want to read the whole thing when we would get them in committee.
 And I took that hugely into account with the fire department's work and the time that it took them, the committees they had to put together to review. We have a very limited universe here. I mean, there's three hospitals. None of them are bad. You know, you go to some very large cities and there's a couple of hospitals that no one wants to go to.
 We are fortunate in having three top-notch hospitals, and yes, you just heard me include Mercy Health in there too, for whatever objections I might have had to Mercy.
 Mercy Health in the past, it has never extended to their staff or to their competence as a hospital system. And I tease about it sometimes, but it certainly never would disparage or have any question about the competence and the professionalism of their operating staffs.
 And that had a lot to do with it for me. I don't want them to give us something. I don't want them to compete and believe that they have to give the city something other than top-notch teaching.
 and a 100% professional and competent example to our firefighter paramedics in their training. And they're all going to do that. So I took huge consideration of the time it took on the part of our firefighting staff
 to go through these things, to put together the RFPs, to review and go through that whole process. But second, I looked at the relationships they're developing. In the next 10 years, that might very well flip over to Mercy Health for whatever reason. And I would certainly be willing to take a look at that time without an RFP if necessary.
 the fire department were to say hey we've really got some good things going with with mercy health i'd like to incorporate those into our training and push those further up the river so in spite of the fact that dr durkee is employed by swedes i am supporting swedes for for this this this opportunity this opportunity
 And I think it would be fantastic. But I agree largely with
 I forgot your last name. Gee whiz. Mr. Thunberg. I always call him by his first name. In most circumstances, but in this one, given the limited universe of potential suppliers and the fact that there's nothing wrong with any of them, I defer to the fire department. Thank you. Any other comments on the five items that are before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Abstain and agree to iron the record.
 Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 14 ayes. Item number 3, 12 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. Items 4, 5, 12 ayes. I'm sorry, 14 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items all pass. Next up, we have officers' reports. Are there any aldermen who'd like to share any reports? Alderman Hervey? Yes. Senator Severson, first I'd like to thank him for the letter that we found on our desks.
 regarding the recreational cannabis taxation. It's a, I think, a good overview of the different taxation that will go onto cannabis. And by the way, he provided this just as information, but reiterated that he did not support recreational cannabis but did support the medical use so that people could receive it for the health benefits.
 Just for the record, he did not support the recreational cannabis. And I just wanted to ask if we've had any conversations with the county regarding how they plan to impose some of the excise taxes that are available to them. We have a purchaser excise tax, but it looks like the county has
 uh an overall excise tax depending on where they're located the dispensaries i guess you would call them are located within the county so for anybody that didn't see it this is um a good one and i just wanted to ask if if there's any possibility that we could actually piggyback onto some of the other taxation
 Types the retailers occupation tax with the county so I have not seen the letter and part of me wants to say Who at the county should we talk to but I'm not going to go there. Okay, and simply just state that We'll make a we'll make I'll make a copy of that and I'll certainly reach out to it's very good overview. So perfect. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Oh
 I just wanted to say thank you to you and Wester for coming out to the neighborhood meetings this past week over at the Nezna neighborhood, North End Square and the Northwest neighbors. You answered a lot of questions about a lot of topics, and I know you ended up staying for both of you staying for about an hour and a half.
 So it was really good to get that in. But I also wanted to just mention, I had a meeting with Kyle Saunders, our new director of public works, and he's developing a plan for addressing some of the snow removal issues. And so seeing that work that he's putting into it and taking the excitement that he brought with
 water treatment Now over to Public Works it's really nice to see that the city's developing a plan especially along with the idea of Snow removal and placement in cul-de-sac So I'm looking forward to seeing that plan that he's developing and I hope residents if you do live in a cul-de-sac Contact the city and let them know that you're interested in being a part of that work So I don't think reporters are ready for Kyle Saunders head during the winter storm. I
 Alderman Thompson Kelly and then alderman urban. Thank you. Your honor. I'd like to thank you for presenting the proclamation to FYM foundation simply because they came into our community and established their church here and that on September When they had their event they gave over $40,000 to organizations in this community and
 They gave $5,000 to our police department. They gave $5,000 to West Gateway Coalition. They gave $5,000 to Feed the Hungry, the homeless.
 Um, just coming into this community, they saw a need and they addressed that need. So I want to personally appreciate them being partners in wanting to be partners of this community and wanting to expand their generosity and work in the community. So thank you very much for that. Uh, that's what a real partner is Todd.
 So I do appreciate you acknowledging them. I didn't know the whole congregation was coming, but I want to thank you again. Thank you. Alderman Ervant.
 Yes, so if you're looking for some entertainment this Sunday at noon, Soar Assembly, we've been all month doing Fun Month and this month or this week we'll be doing Sneaker Sunday and I'll be a part of a cypher while I'll be on stage rapping a Sweet 16 bars if any of you guys are interested in that type of thing. But yeah, I just want to...
 put that out there is downtown Rockford Norloth Center right across the street from district Alderman Frost did you ever know Alderman Tumberg I'm sorry thanks mayor director Saunders excellent job the third ward unfortunately it seems like the past couple weeks has experienced infrastructure issues one pipe I think being 110 years old it was found in one
 um director saunders has just been on the ball and i appreciate his efforts and mitch leatherby and harry noble um just is is is good and comforting to know they got our backs and uh thank you very much on that because i've had him on speed dial
 seeing no others we'll move on to unfinished business uh no items under planning development moving to code and regulation alderman trelli thank your honor i've got a couple items this evening if i could move to item number two because i have an amendment for item number one first so item number two your honor i'm
 I'd like to make a motion to table this item to a further notice because I would like to. There's some good things with these amendments, and I want to be able to send this back to the Doing Business in Rockford committee for further review. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to table item number two. Is there any discussion on that? All those in favor of tabling item number two, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, sign, sign.
 All right, thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. And back to item one. So item number one, I move to amend the committee report reversing the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum number of allowed wall signs above ground of a structure from two to three in a light industrial district at 4949 Harrison Avenue to state as follows.
 Denials of this variation is based upon the following findings. Number one, because the particular physical surrounding shape and topography conditions of the specific property involved at no particular hardship to the owner would not result if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out.
 Number two, the conditions upon which a petition for this variation are based are not unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are applicable, generally to other property within the same zoning classification.
 Number three, the purpose of this variation is based exclusively upon a desire to increase the value or income potential of the property. Number four, the alleged difficulty of a hardship is caused by this ordinance has been created by persons presently having an interest in the property or by any predecessor in title. Thank you. Late this evening, your honor.
 the granting of this variation will be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located
 number six the proposed variation will impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of the public streets or increase the danger or fire in danger public safety or Substantially diminish or impair the property values within the neighborhood number seven The proposed variation does not comply with the spirit and intent of restrictions imposed by this ordinance Is there a second for the motion?
 All right. So we have a motion and a second. Anyone want Alderman Shirely to repeat that? No. Thank God. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. I'm just asked that legal take a look at number one and number four. It seems like some words have been left in. It doesn't. Alderman, or, well. It says a no particular hardship to the owner would not result if the strict letter were to be carried out. So I think there's just a portion that should have been.
 deleted and then number four i think it should say it should not say it's caused by this ordinance i would not by the way do that to any citizen in rockford so director myers could you address that thanks uh yeah we uh cribbed up this uh motion uh sort of last second and we did miss a couple of those typos in number one number four those would be considered clerical errors we'll make sure that they're uh they're prop appropriately reflected in the minutes
 Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you. So the way I understand it, the motion that's been made by Alderman Shirely is an attempt to actually not allow an additional sign at 4949 Harris-Stenlund. Is that correct? This motion's intention is to incorporate the findings of fact for the committee report that recommended a denial for this sign. Because they were neglected. I'm just still a little confused. So if we vote yes,
 for this particular item we are we are voting to not allow an additional sign on this property is that correct yes
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Director Myers. I just want to clarify the reason, the purpose of the amendment is when the ZBA item was reversed at committee, they did not include a vote on findings of fact that were all, you know, that contradicted the ZBA findings, which is required under the Act and under our own rules. So in order for the Council to take a final vote on this committee report, we had to include the findings of fact.
 to sort of the opposite of what the ZBA found. So a vote in favor of this amendment is to include the findings of fact in the committee report, which will then be voted on in order to justify the reversing the ZBA's recommendation. Thank you. Any discussion? Seeing no more further discussion, Clerk, will you call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose Beach Kenones Beck McNeely Chiarelli 13 ayes Thank you and lucky for us that was just an amendment so are you placing the amended item up for passage? Thank you this is exciting Any further discussion on the amended item before us? Seeing none can I just do a voice vote? No, alright. Clerk will you please call the roll? Durkee Aye Gasparini Aye
 Hervey, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. Moving along, we have Finance Committee Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Committee recommends approval of the creation and funding of a Camp Hope
 project manager position for the Juvenile Crime Prevention Initiative. The funding sources police operating budget for the first 12 months amount not to exceed $101,631. And PSN funding for the additional two years amount not to exceed $203,262 for a total amount not to exceed $304,893.
 The Camp Hope Initiative is a crime prevention strategy aimed at reducing the number of juvenile offenders entering the criminal justice system in Rockford, Illinois. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I believe that Chief O'Shea wanted to make a couple of comments on this item. Chief O'Shea?
 So I would ask that the council approve the Camp Hope initiative. We're always looking for prevention strategies, especially involving juveniles. It will come out of our budget, and it will also be funded by the PSN funding we will get from the federal government. It's another way for us to keep kids from coming into the system, kids who have been traumatized, kids who have been part of watching violence their whole life. I think it's worth considering.
 giving it a shot i know it's something new i know i also realize the council does not like to bring on personnel to the city i understand that but i think the benefits will outweigh the costs down
 So I would ask for your approval of it. Thank you. Thank you alderman mcneely. Thank you. Mr Mayor, I thank council. I had asked that this be laid over and I had the opportunity To talk with jennifer regarding this as well as to the mayor and the legal department so i'm i've received the answers
 To the questions that I had so i'm comfortable tonight to move forward with this and I do hope that It will do all that we're expecting for it to do Thank you. Good alderman thompson kelly Um, i'd just like to make a request that if this does pass that for the additional two years that we get some type of report
 the first year of the camp the number of students and the success rates or whatever initiatives you're having in the camp all their men heard thank you your honor I have no issue with the goals of of the camp I am disturbed that given Rockford's crime rate given the fact Rockford grant given the fact that
 Rockford needs all the help that we can get in in trying to help and heal our kids. This program is open to everybody I do not believe that using the Domestic violence program which seems to operate on a countywide basis is is the way to help
 To do that theoretically this program could have 50 or even 75 percent of kids from outside the city of Rockford and Somewhere Rockford has got to start putting its kids in itself first We're the ones who I'm not saying that any kid that that's faced with domestic violence doesn't have that risk but I can tell you that I believe Rockford has more of the risk and
 That's what I keep hearing about all the time. When it's time to point the finger at Rockford, we're always front and center. But in this case, when we need this program to help and to heal, there's no assurance that it will be even a majority of Rockford kids. And we've seen that with some of the other programs that we tried to put into effect.
 And Rockford was the one whose kids were underrepresented, for example, in police and fire, and some of the other areas of our city. And yet our kids aren't necessarily the ones that are sought out and take a primary seat in those programs. And I was really hoping that we would come back and flip that around. And I just, somewhere, I think we've gotta draw the line and say Rockford first.
 So I think we say yeah, certainly. Thank you any other comments alderman frost. Thank you Mayor I want to commend you and Jennifer catch up. I and the Honorable Rosemary Collins and starting the effort you have started With preventing domestic violence in our entire community and I applaud you for that and I've talking to miss catch play about this particular program and what what I have a problem with really is a number of things one is we just had a budget and
 address. They had some information in it. One of the things that we talk about a lot is a lot of our increasing costs. And I'll say the buzzword pension costs. We're going to go from 9 million to 19.5 million dollars. And every chance we get, and I was on the financial task force and I read the NRN. And just by the way, on the first slide that
 Kerry presented it said that it cited Camp Hope and nowhere in the NRN report did it say whatsoever that Camp Hope was a way to prevent youth violence. I'm not saying it isn't, I'm just saying it's not in there and I don't appreciate getting misinformation. But if you read at the actual NRN report, it says that school based prevention programs reach a large number of youths for less cost and without increasing full time employees.
 So we just saw a slide later on today that said if this program goes through, we're going to increase the full-time employees by one of a police officer with respect to Camp Hope. I don't know where we're going with this, but all I remember is when this movement started, that we were going to use grants and private donations and other revenue sources. And I've understood that there's been a grant coming on this.
 But it's not here and we can't go forward without it. Then we're going to get it back and then now we're not going to get it back and lo and behold tonight we're getting asked to spend $303,000 on a camp for a limited number of kids. When the actual report indicates that school based programs work better and reach a large number,
 for a better cost so where's the school in this i mean when did it become the burden of the city i understand what chief o'shea's saying we all agree on this we all want crime to go down it's a matter of with the with the money that we have what's the best use of that money and and i would propose that this is not a good use of our budget money i'm not saying it's not a good use or a good program but when we're talking about cutting other things
 And lo and behold, I would love to tell my residents of the ward and the residents of the city of Rockford that our tax levy has actually gone down. And every time we have a chance to actually reduce our tax levy, we spend it. And one thing I'd like to accomplish on the city council, since I've done it, is I would truly like to see our actual tax levy reduced.
 Go down so we're taking on a new item on our police budget here and that money could be used for other things It could be used for new patrol cars. It could be used for better training it could be used lo and behold for more police officers on the street and and Then I received the actual Camp Hope study and lo and behold I read it and if you go to the results section and you go through all their graphs children's was resiliency
 It goes from a 28.28 to a 29.4. Here's a question. I have friends that really care about me. It goes from a 4.84 to a 5. I can go through this 4.93 to a 5.04. Their own data indicates that, yes, is it, are there changes? Yes. Are they significant? No.
 And then we were told information about 100% of the kids that go through the program going to college. No, I read it, it wasn't that. It was 100% of the kids having an intent on going to college or wanting to go to college.
 So I just, I don't, I mean, I had told Ms. Catch-Prior this, I don't know why you can't put this program on yourself. Why do you have to go to some, to pay a lot of this money for this, Camp Povist, is to pay for travel and training of folks from the city of Rockford to go undergo this matter. We can do it ourselves.
 Who says we need to go to Milwaukee to be trained on how to prevent youth violence and how to actually help kids that are victims of ACEs, right? Why can't we do that by ourselves? I mean, we've been undergoing training for a while now. We can do this without having to spend all this money.
 and again so i mean i just it's not what the nrn report said to use uh we can use this money uh elsewhere and i just i i question the success of this particular program that's been run in very limited places around this nation with very limited children thank you thank you so a couple of comments uh in response so if you don't recall uh
 Two years ago when we both started in our current roles, we actually did reduce the property tax levy. Two years ago when we both started in our current roles, we actually did increase our authorized police force to over 300 for the first time in a decade. We have about a $57 million budget in our police department, approximately. If you were to combine...
 Jennifer Kachapalia's role in office, including rent that office pays here, supplies, and this program, you're at under $250,000. If you look at where our crime is occurring, 40 percent
 of all of our violent crime is domestic violence related. Through August of this year, 53% of all of our aggravated assaults are domestic violence related. In 2018, when you review all of the juveniles arrested for violent offenses, lo and behold, you find that 60% of them had domestic violence in their household growing up or were direct victims. I believe,
 getting more on the proactive side is a good thing so that we can
 Potentially will it for sure work alderman frost? We got to try it to see if it'll work because we know what we're doing today Continuing to just increase officers Continuing to just be reactive will not cut it and if we do it and we get the training to utilize some best Practices and get some technical assistance. We can have a better program. I also Would just say that
 I think that one of the most powerful things when you look at what happened with Constance Lane was that all of these groups came together. You had the city, you had the county, you had the school district, everyone coming together to help beautify that neighborhood.
 I can continue to say that our school system isn't performing the way I want it to, but I also think we have to get our children who have low hope scores, high ACEs scores, to a point that we can help bring them to that school system where they have a sense of hope. And today, I don't think many do.
 If you look at the homicides just this year, 15 homicides and 12 out of the 15 people who committed murders, lo and behold, Alderman Frost. They had domestic violence in their background. Can I respond to that when you're done? After I'm done you can as I waited for you. So I just think it is a cycle.
 All I'm saying is we simply need to stop doing the things that we've always been doing and try something new. And for $100,000 a year for potentially the next three years, worst case scenario, if we don't get the grant, which...
 I believe we will. Worst case scenario looking at 300,000 out of 114, 21, $171 million budget, we're looking at about 300,000. I think that's worth spending in hopes of improving our child's outcomes so that they don't feel that they need to turn to violence when they come to a conflict.
 If you'd like to respond to your more than statistics, your honor, and it's about criminal aspects of whether it's murder or aggravated assaults. And you know what? It's true. Most people that killed someone else, they know them. They're close to them. That's what that's. It's a crime of passion most times. So, yes, it is a statistic that you cite and I'm not disputing it.
 I mean, the relevance of that to this particular program, I'm confused about. And again, my gripe really is that
 I sat on the committee, your honor, that we talked a lot about how to save $250,000. And I think $250,000, I know in the scheme of government or the city budget, of a police budget of 52 million, which a vast majority of is related to a pension cost. It's still significant. I mean, I don't think a quarter million dollars is a dime here, a dime there, thrown around here. And I think we spent a lot of time trying to save some money.
 But the issue that still is addressed is we went outside and we participated in the NRN. We got findings, and in their own findings, they actually indicate that a school based prevention program is better. And that's what I'm saying. I mean, I would just as soon try it with the school based prevention. I mean, I understand we may disagree on how to get there, and I respect you for that.
 these are some of the proposals that were indicated by the nrn that really were not addressing and were ignored good thanks what's the vote alderman rose well i'd like to address the school-based thing um i don't speak for uh rockford public schools in this matter because it's not just um them that's a part of the matter and i'm an employee of theirs but i will speak from a a voice of working with jen kachapalia and her dedication to
 Reaching out to educators, especially when it comes to training in domestic abuse and human trafficking. There were 70 teachers regionally and professionals that just recently received domestic abuse and human trafficking training free of cost.
 to the district not just rps but numerous other districts she's working with a team of teachers that is identifying school districts regionally to do more of these trainings um
 I think her goal is basically to turn this into a regional battle because we are facing these things. And so to mention that it isn't a school based program, I'm pretty sure she's covering all of her bases when it comes to those recommendations. Having been a part of that and being a part of that committee with her as educators.
 seeing the 15 or so educators and people within the, or professionals within the human trafficking and domestic violence programs, and getting information from them and getting their recommendations. I feel like she's meeting those goals. Just kind of to...
 brag about that the 70 teachers that attended that training 70 of them said that it was it was one of the best trainings that they had received so it was quite impressive i go to
 you know i'd say a handful of trainings each year it would be a top three training i've received as an educator in my career in 10 years and and i can say that wholeheartedly and honestly because of the level of professionalism that uh that took to put together and the people that she brought in as a part of that training thank you alderman hoffman thank you mayor um i just want to say that unfortunately we have a huge number of children in this community
 that aren't in school and I'm talking about kids from grade school level to high school I'm working with a program where they're going and looking for these kids they're finding them they're getting them into a program and then they're trying to get them back into the schools but there is a surprising number of children that aren't in the schools and are the victims of domestic violence and sometimes it is one of the parents that's keeping them out of school
 the abuser, the drunk, the drug addict. And so that's why the kids aren't there. They need help too. So I am supporting this program because maybe we can get to these kids.
 Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelliff. Oh my God. Thank you, Your Honor. We have quite a few issues in this community. And I do agree with Alderman Frost and some of the comments that he made, but I also do believe that we have to do something with our youth in this community.
 You know, from the residents and the neighborhood groups that I'm going to, in all honesty, they think, Your Honor, when you and the chief get up and talk about the numbers and crime going down, they think you're a joke.
 because they hear the gunfire every night. They see the crime in their community. I was at a neighborhood watch group Thursday evening, and the most important thing that we were told was crime may be going down. The numbers that you're giving this community is the entire community. It's not Signal Hill crime is up. West Rockford crime is up. So crime isn't going down from some of the residents that we have in this community with the children.
 So we do need to do something and nothing else has been offered or nothing else has been done and we are losing our children Because lord knows district 205 is not our savior We have to do something and I do have a concern about it being county-wide and not city-wide. Thank you Thanks alderman urbans, you know, I would agree that uh,
 Something definitely needs to be done with our youth. I just don't know if a camp is the answer, you know Unfortunately, I was a victim of much domestic abuse coming up There wasn't a camp there wasn't a Boys and Girls Club. There wasn't a mentor There wasn't a teacher that could help me out of that situation You know training
 You know, at the end of the day, I believe that our youth desperately desire relationship. As a youth pastor, growing a youth ministry from five students to 50 students in a matter of two and a half years, one thing that I learned was rules without relationship equals rebellion. You know, and then there's also consistency. And then we talk about hope, hope.
 I believe can't fully even be restored unless the parents are hopeful as well. And when we talk about jobs and equal pay opportunity, the living situation that one stays in could cause one to be chaotic. I remember after my mother had passed and my grandmother had passed, moving in with
 who had two of her own kids in a terrible marriage where she experienced physical abuse and verbal abuse we lost our home there was all these different scenarios that I just don't think a camp could prepare the the devastation that one occurs on on a consistent basis especially if a person's life is just continued domestic abuse
 I desperately agree that there's something that needs to be done. I mean, I have youth of my own that I'm looking at and I'm crying out. I have my niece, she's 16 years old and her boyfriend who's impregnated her just recently got stabbed. And it was a point where he was holding his guts in his hands and he's homeless.
 You know, his mom is homeless. He has two younger brothers that he has to take care of. You know, that's something that I have to go and deal with because he doesn't even know any better. That's my 16-year-old niece. She's a teenager. You know, how could a camp address some of these situations? He's been kicked out of school. Why? Because he doesn't have a mentor. He doesn't have a male figure. He doesn't have hope in what you would say. So...
 I believe that in order for one to really want to change, it has to be a desire of their own. And there's an entire not, I mean, you could train this teacher, but the truth be told, the student's mind needs to be transformed. And so, I don't know. So just to your point, I think actually you hit on many of the positives of the program. So it is a camp that folks go away.
 Quite honestly, that's like the smallest part of the program. It's a year-round mentoring as you mentioned Is it that is part of it that actually has a greater impact? But thank you. Was there other alderman to work? I just be clear on Has the grant been
 Has it been granted? The grant's been approved at the local regional level and it goes to the federal government. And we have been told from our local regional office that every time they submit one to the federal government, it is approved, we're just waiting on that approval. Is that accurate, Chief? I see. Thank you. All right, so it's money we're hoping to get.
 Yeah, it's money that was approved at the Chicago office, which we have been told that when Chicago office approves it, feds always approve it. To your point, feds have not approved it yet. We are waiting for them to do so. Because yes, I have the concerns of $300,000 that could be spent on additional police officers.
 and that I just, I don't see, what I've looked into Camp Hope too, I just, I don't see a proven track record of change. I do, for someone that also, myself, that does support children's initiatives, i.e. the YMCA has a number of programs which I personally support, and I question also the, as the board has said,
 Alderman Frost alluded to with the schools that I think there is a whole slew of Christian based organizations out there that I believe may be not utilized to the fullest extent I would like to know if they are and those are costs that are not incurred at all by the taxpayer unless they choose to make a donation to
 So I do have a problem with that amount for a program that hasn't been proven, I think, to the fullest extent. But also, Alderman Hervey brings up an excellent point, is that constituents regularly tell me whether they see more homeless individuals and vagrants walking downtown than they have in the past, whether that's true or not.
 or whether it's some people's observations whether true or not but yes that i do have an issue with individuals coming from other communities at our taxpayer rockford taxpayer expense coming into programs that are funded uh whether it's you know again whether it's city
 taxpayer or it's federally funded it's still taxpayer i pay federal taxes everyone here does too i believe so um it's still coming out of our pockets um but so i yes i i i do have issues with this and i think that also within and i'll say my piece is that it comes down to again uh
 many times getting to the root cause of the household. It does. And we know that I could go on another rant, and I will another time, I guarantee it, on fatherless households and that issue in itself.
 So thank you. So providing these young men with male mentors is a big piece of this program. And as for Christian-based organizations, I believe the YMCA is one who has also provided a letter of support in your packet for Camp Hope and plans to be a partner along with the Park District. I would just say, I mean, let's not go too far awry that we're insinuating that people are going to move to Rockford for Camp Hope.
 It just isn't going to happen. So Alderman Durkee, we've been asked to call the vote. So we have Alderman Durkee. Can we just have him make a comment since he has not commented yet? And I'll be very brief. Just a couple of comments. I agree with a lot of what's being said and what our goals in the community. I am...
 More of a fan of the private sector I'm a big fan of Rock House kids But I would also say that we whenever whatever we're gonna do we need to be effective doing something doesn't mean we do anything And that's that's the wrong path the the data when we I've looked at it as well It's not that truly an effective of a program. So that's my 22nd comment. Thank you We've been asked to call the boat clerk. Would you please call that boat? Thank you
 No. Gasparini? Yes. Toonberg? No. Frost? No. Hervey? No. Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McMilley? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 8 ayes, 6 noes. Item passes. Next up, we have appointments laid over. That item is going to be laid over until after September 18th. We'll move to motions and resolutions. We have planning and development. Alderman Rose?
 alderman hervey i'm sorry i wanted to ask if we could suspend the rules that today's the 16th it's just you know we have a motion to suspend the rules is that real fit yeah
 We have a motion to suspend the rules. We have a second. Is there any discussion on that? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor of approving Kathy Johnson to Community Action Agency Board to serve a three-year term, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. We'll continue to move on. Thank you, Alderman Herbie, for that. We'll continue to move on to motions and resolutions to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Rose.
 We have one item to put up, the amendment to the resolution with Zion Development Corporation for the property located at 528 7th Street for forgiveness of the 7th Street tax increment financing loan in the amount of $180,000. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Gasparini. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No. Herbie. Urbans. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman.
 Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli. Ten ayes, three noes.
 Thank you. So that item passes. Next up we have Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Shirell. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is the approval to place for sale 68XX Rote Road. Located on the southwest corner of Rote Road and Perryville Road. The anticipated listing price will be $165,000 subject to an appraisal. Number two is Dash Your Dash scheduled for Saturday, November 30th, 2019.
 Number three is the stroll on state and I dot resolution scheduled for Saturday, November 30th 2019 and number four your honor. I have the amendment I moved to reconsider the ordinance approving a variation to reduce the required front yard setback from 30 feet to 27 feet along round tree Lane for a 12 feet wide garage addition to the west side of the attached garage and
 and an r1 single family zoning district at 1769 red oak lane thank you so we have uh four items let's take that one motion up first on item four if it's allowable to the council second so we have a motion in a second uh is there any discussion this one we can take a voice vote
 So all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. So motion passes. So this matter will be up for reconsideration. So you have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items that's before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely.
 Shirely 12 eyes. Thank you. So those items pass. I just want to say a big thank you to the cvb staff That is still here with us this evening at 8 46 for the work that you've done already and continue to do Specifically this time with us draw and stay. So, thank you Next up we have finance and personnel committee
 Alderman Frost. Thank you, your honor. First, we have an award of bid for the city wide sidewalk and ADE package number three to Stensland excavation of Rockford in the amount of $78,432.20, the funding source is sales tax.
 Two, we have an award of bid for the Michigan Avenue and West State Street, Indiana Avenue and Illinois Avenue water main replacement to N-Track Group of Love's Park in the amount of $905,256.30. The funding source is a water replacement improvement account. Number three is an award of an engineering agreement for the police evidence facility phase two ESA proposal.
 to Fairgram Engineering and Environmental of Rockford in the amount of $32,000. The funding source is bond proceeds. Number four is an award of engineering agreement for well 39 water treatment addition to Fairgram and Associates of Rockford in the amount of $265,000. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account.
 Number five is an award of RFP for security software to CDW-G of Vernon Hills, Illinois in the amount of $136,500. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the information technology operating budget. Thank you. We have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Seeing no discussion on those five items, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasperini. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Urbans. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next up, all those items passed. Next up, we have new business under planning and development. Alderman Rose. Aye.
 We have four items, an ordinance approving an amendment to the Rockford River Edge Redevelopment Zone, designating ordinance for the purpose of applying to the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity to expand and limit property tax abatement incentives. That was number one. Item two, an ordinance approving an amendment to the Rockford I-90 Enterprise Zone, designating ordinance for the purpose of applying to Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
 to expand and limit property tax abatement incentives. Item three, an ordinance approving an amendment to Rockford Enterprise Zone number one designating ordinance for the purpose of applying to Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity to expand and limit property tax abatement incentives. And item four, an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority for the acquisition of certain properties through abandonment proceedings.
 thank you sue you have uh four items before you is there any discussion on those four items i've seen none clerk will you please call the roll jerky thunberg frost hervey thompson kelly hoffman rose beach quinones mcmillie shirely gasperini items one two three thirteen eyes item number four twelve eyes one no thank you
 Next up, we have those items pass. Next up, we have Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, your honor. First is an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum sign height permitted from eight feet to four feet two inches. In a rural estate zoning district at 3445 Elmwood.
 number two is an ordinance approving the amendments to the icc no i'm sorry i already i'm we went to table that one table there so i'll move on to item number three your honor i move to amend the ordinance on the roman numeral 11
 Code and regulations committee item number three to reflect the approval of a variation to reduce the required front yard setback from 30 feet to 23 feet. Along round tree lane for a 26 feet by 16 feet garage addition to the West side of the attached garage. At 1769, red oak lane.
 The approval of this variation is based upon the following findings, your honor. Because of the particular physical surrounding shape and topography conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result.
 as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out. Number two, the conditions upon which the petition for this variation are based are unique to the property for the variation is sought and are not applicable generally to other property within the same zoning classification. Number three, the purpose of this variation is not based exclusively upon the desire to increase the value or income potential of the property.
 Number four, the alleged difficulty of hardship is not caused by this ordinance, has not been created by any persons presently having an interest in the property or by any predecessor entitled.
 Number five, the granting of this variation will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located. Number six, the proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of public streets.
 or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood number seven the proposed variation complies with the spirit and intent of restrictions imposed by this ordinance is there a second we have a motion in a second before you so we have a motion in a second uh all those in favor say aye those opposed same sign
 Motion passes. So now we just have those two just No, the second one was laid or table. So we have two items before us items one and item three So you have two items before you is there any discussion on those two items that are before us seeing no discussion clerk Will you please call the roll? Durkee? Gasparini? Toonberg? Frost? Hervey? Irvins? Thompson-Kelley?
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely. Items 1 and 3, 12 ayes, 1 no.
 Excellent. Those items pass. I know it's been a long evening. I'll just make two quick statements before we get to this last section so everyone can go. I want everyone to remember that next week we do not have a meeting here. I don't know if anyone could forget that's in this horseshoe, but we actually have a public hearing on a potential casino. It's going to be held at Coronado Theater, and I know many of you have already received the emails that we've distributed.
 The following week, just as a reminder, we will have committee and council. So that should be a really short and fun night for all of us. And most importantly this evening, I want to just say happy birthday to Alderman McNeely. So happy birthday. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. When are we going to receive our information for the three proposals? So as of what was emailed out, you'll have it this Friday. Thank you.
 We have items remaining. Alderman Frost. Number one is an ordinance approving the early head start child care partnership non-federal share waiver request in the amount of $138,556 for the grant period ending June 30, 2019.
 Number two is an ordinance approving the EMS resource hospital agreement with Swedish American health system The contract commences on January 1 2020 and may be extended for five additional one-year terms upon mutual agreement of both parties There is no cost to the city of Rockford number three is an ordinance approving imposing a municipal cannabis retailers occupation tax a
 Number four is an ordinance authorizing the city to utilize funds from the public water supply loan program at the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. An application of loan for future phases. The city will borrow $2.5 million per year for three years for phases for a total of $7.5 million. The city staff is also authorized to submit a loan application yearly to the IEPA.
 Number five is an ordinance approving the creation and funding of a Camp Hope project manager position for the Juvenile Crime Prevention Initiative. The funding sources the police operating budget for the first 12 months in amount not to exceed $101,631. And PSN funding for additional two years amount not to exceed $203,262 for a total amount not to exceed $304,893.
 The Camp Hope Initiative is a crime prevention strategy aimed at reducing the number of juvenile offenders entering the criminal justice system in Rockford, Illinois. I place that message for you. So we have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Alderman Toonberg. Thanks, Mayor. Could I just clarify what PSN funding is? Project Safe Neighborhood. Bingo. That's a grant dollar. Yep. Thank you.
 Any other discussion on the five items before us? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Abstain on two. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. No on two and five. Frost. No on five. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye on five. Aye.
 Items 1 13 eyes and number 2 11 eyes 1 no 1 abstain item 3 13 eyes and 413 eyes item number 5 8 eyes 6 nose. Thank you. I Voted so I was the 8th. I what do you say? Because there were seven if we want to discuss item again, that'd be more fun Is there a motion to adjourn?
 Is there a second? We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Have a wonderful night.