Good evening, we will call to order the city of Rockford's regularly scheduled city council meeting for Monday, September 19th, 2022. To begin the evening in our meetings, we is Kaplan Norma Barrero with us for an invocation. I do not see our chaplain with us, so I'm going to call on Alderman Beach to see if he would provide us with an invocation. You're being asked to unmute yourself. To unmute, press star six. Don't worry, it's just God talking. I was wondering what he was saying. Let's pray together. So, Father, all over the world today we've watched the end of one reign of Queen Elizabeth and the pomp that goes with it. And yet the humility... Father God, as she cast her crowns on the older. And we're grateful for this evening, Lord, as you let us serve you, that you let us have life, that you let us have opportunity. And we thank you for that. And now for this evening, Lord, we ask a blessing upon our alderman, our staff, our mayor and his staff, those that serve to protect us here, life and property. Be with us this evening, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag. of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Here. Tarina. Here. Prunty. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Here. 11 present. Excellent we have a quorum this evening is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on August 15th 2022 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion all those in favor say aye is there any one opposed Motion passes next is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 6 2022 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye all Those opposed okay next we are to we're supposed to have a proclamation But I do not see the recipient is miss Alice up house with us this evening Council with your permission. I'd like to hold off on the proclamation. She's very dutiful of coming in each year I just want to make sure she receives it and has the opportunity to be part of it. Is that okay? Thank you. I Next we'll go to petitions and communications and we will go to planning and development committee and Alderwoman Meeks Thank you so much your honor under planning and development committee item number one is a memorandum from Anna Garrison economic development manager regarding an ordinance for the correction due to Scrivener's error in The first amendment to the redevelopment plan and redevelopment project for the amended Amarok Hotel redevelopment project area This is referred to planning and development committee. I Item 2 is the memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding a proposed ordinance for the termination of the Assisted Living River Housing Redevelopment Project Area and the dissolution of the Special Tax Allocation Fund for the Assisted Living River Housing Tax Increment Financing District. This is referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number three is the memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding the adoption of the ordinance to terminate the West State Kilburn TIF and ordinances for the second amendment to the Amarok TIF referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item four is the memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an application and award acceptance for the Illinois Special Bridge Program, fiscal year 28. ISBP GRANT FOR 15TH AVENUE OVER ROCK RIVER BRIDGE, REFERRED TO THE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE. Item 5 is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a resolution in support of the tax increment financing districts. This is referred to Planning and Development Committee. And item 6, final item, is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the 2021 Tax Increment Finance Districts Update. And this is all referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Alderwoman. And before we get to the next committee, I'm going to see if we can adjust some of our technical difficulties here. All right. I think we're good to go. All right. Next, we will go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor McNamara. For the Code and Regulation Committee, I have three items. Item number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on September 20th, 2022, and meetings from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on September 26th, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on September 20th, 2022. And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on September 26th, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And lastly, item number three, a memorandum for Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding the final plat of the cottages at Peterson Meadows Subdivision, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you alderwoman next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman to bird. All right. Thank you mayor We have two items under finance and personnel committee memorandum from Todd Cagnotti city administrator regarding the lien assignment of city leans to the Northern Illinois Land Bank in the city of Rockford vacant parcels Emerson estate subdivision Referred to finance and personnel committee item number two is memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding reimbursement agreement for preliminary engineering services for grade crossing improvements for 11th Street between Railroad Avenue and Woodruff Avenue And Union Pacific Railroad tracks referred to finance and personnel committee. Thank you mayor. I Thank you, Alderman Tunberg. Next, we will move to our public speaker section. And I just want to remind all the public speakers, there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of city council chambers. You can use either one. You have three minutes to address the city council. You then will hear an obnoxious cell phone alarm and ask that you close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Nancy Spahr. Nancy I believe you can use the mic right behind that one. I believe I believe so why don't you test it real quick? Make sure can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. Okay. Um, I'm Nancy spar I'm a lifelong resident to Rockford and I'm here to voice my opinion regarding the plan to have a multi-use path put on on High Quest Road and The short stretch of road is very dangerous because of the visibility issues and the road's curves and varying elevations, but primarily due to the high speeds of many of the motorists. I did hand out a paper for all you guys. It's kind of edited, so half of what I'm saying is on there. Okay, great. I realize much of the money to build the path may come from a grant, however, the city is planning to chip in hundreds of thousands of dollars for a path that is a mile and a half long and already has a sidewalk and a painted bike lane. The city will need to spend tens, maybe hundreds of thousands of dollars for the maintenance of this path, a path that is not needed. I feel the city could use this money for more pressing concerns and on things that will be more beneficial to the whole community. And I thought cyclists were to ride on the street, not on the sidewalk. There are about 70 driveways and side streets that they will need to cross. So why are cyclists riding on this sidewalk? Is it just because it is wider? The last time, a couple years ago, we applied for the grant from ITEP that they're going to apply for, and I got six pages of signatures from people who are opposed to the multi-use path on Highcrest. I got these signatures a couple years ago, and I did send all of these copies to ITEP at that time. Let's see. Okay. Sorry, I edited things. I do not think a multi-use path is a good idea. on High Crest will be safe for bicyclists, pedestrians, or homeowners, especially those that are backing out of their driveway. I am on a driveway that's on a slant, and I'm backing out through our three side streets within two houses of mine, so cars are already coming around and I don't see them if they're pulling out of there out of the other side streets and then also there's a curve About a block away. So if I'm already looking for cars going, you know, 30 to 50 miles an hour now I'll be looking for pedestrians and bicyclists Why don't we use the spend the money on streets that do not have sidewalks and that are needed? there's a lot of areas that do not have sidewalks and even like near Auburn High School and I think that's my end. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Paul Bates. Yes, it is working. Hi, my name is Paul Bates. Thank you for letting me speak. I'm the board president for the National Land Institute. If you've seen, say, Belbo Prairie signs around town, that's the subject on which I'm speaking. Belbo Prairie, a little bit about it. It is, there are only about 1,000. of a percent of Illinois' original prairies that still exist, one out of every 10,000 acres, which is terrible for a prairie state. Of those, a very tiny number, like now probably under 20, are of a type called dry gravel prairie, which supports flora and fauna that are different than other types of prairie Those only occur at the leading edge of glaciers when they retreat. So they leave little piles of gravel right at that spot. There happens to be one that is at the airport property, and that's our Belleville Prairie. It's on the Illinois Natural Areas inventory as a place of special interest or of unique habitat for endangered species. The reason I'm here really is because in about, in under a month, the airport has the authority to plow Belleville Prairie for the expansion, for their cargo expansion capacity. And that, they show a road that goes right through the middle of the highest quality portion of the prairie. There are options, no question. When they applied for permission from Fish and Wildlife and the FAA, they had six plans. We're not sure they were all looked at carefully, so we hired an engineering firm to look at the pros and cons of the rejected plans. One of them gives the airport everything that they're looking for and stays out of the high-quality prairie. Now, the airport is not happy that in their minds we're coming into the lake date. However, our executive director has been speaking with the reps from Senator Durbin and Senator Duckworth. Senator Duckworth says, yeah, we'll support a change. Senator Durbin has committed to us that he will apply for federal appropriation that would pay for the engineering, for the redesign, and pay for any additional construction costs that the airport might have. But he can't do anything procedurally unless the airport authority makes a request to him and the airport Authority has said no, I don't understand frankly, but Rockford appoints three of the seven commissioners on the airport authority board and The two parks appoint two. Winnebago County appoints two. So you've got almost half of the commissioners that are supposed to be representing you. I'm asking that you request of your commissioners that they urge Mike Dunn, the director of the airport, to request of Senator Durbin's office this funding, which Senator Durbin is quite certain he will be able to make. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Larry Washington. The clubs violating liquor laws in the city, the mayor and police have been informed. So far these places are still operating. So I blame the mayor and the police the most because I've seen no signs that they are doing anything serious about it. But yet other cities do take this very seriously. A detective has called me. I have already told the mayor and detectives all they have to do is look at the reviews online to see that several people are confirming what I have said about these places. I asked the detective, have you seen the reviews? She said no. What type of investigative work is this? It's like she don't want the establishment seen in a bad light. And as I have said last week, I believe it's because the owners of these businesses have ties and friends on the police force. I doubt she has even asked for surveillance video. I can't find out what, if anything, she has come up with because she hasn't returned my phone calls. Something fishy is going on here. One review talks of employees being wasted. That's a clear liquor law violation. When I would ask the detective questions, a common reply was, I don't know. I don't know, I don't know. That was during our initial conversation. Like I said, I have not heard anything back from her since then. I found at least nine to 10 negative reviews on each of these two establishments online. My question to the mayor is why on earth would you want places conducting business in this town like that? Other towns have shut businesses down like these. Why hasn't Rockford done the same? So again, something very fishy is going on here. I saw a guy so drunk, he couldn't even stand up. This would clearly be on the cameras if they look at them. A lot would be seen if the detective would just look at their surveillance videos. These people writing these reviews have no reason whatsoever to lie about what they have seen or how unprofessional these owners and managers are, have not heard not one positive thing about any employees and anything positive about the owners, the managers of these places. Would like to see something and writing to me from the mayor and police department telling me why these places are still open When other towns are shutting them down for these illegal activities Thank you our next public speaker this evening is James Castry I speak today in opposition to the high crest bike path I'm not going to address the safety issues too much here this plan absolutely fails regarding safety and somehow the city doesn't get that I high volume of speeding traffic, a history of cars leaving the roadway, no safety study was performed. The Pedestrian and Bicycling Information Center that promotes path safety recommends street bike lanes instead of paths when you have more than eight intersections per mile, where we have over 65 intersections of roads and driveways in 1.7 miles. They also advise to never place a path where users end up behind vehicles backing up, just like high-crisp road driveways. The route is unsafe. It's breathtakingly destructive, tearing out landscapes, moving utility poles, cutting down dozens of trees in the forest city. Okay. to place an ugly strip of asphalt into yards and reduce property values. As the city-wide street bike lane, the type being installed all around town, can't be put on Buckingham Drive one block over. It follows the same route, avoids the destruction and devaluation at a tiny fraction of the cost, and is currently used by cyclists right now to avoid high crests. This path was conceived by minority cycling interests without much public input, and it shows. More residents had been in the room when the route was proposed. Common sense may have prevailed. The path does not serve a transportation need. It's purely recreational. And you know, aside from the river bike path, our system of paths is largely ignored by most Rockford residents. The user population the city proposes is an imaginary one. It doesn't exist now in the city in any meaningful numbers. Just look at the paths. The idea of if you build it, they will come, that's a nice fantasy for the movies, but real Rockford residents' lives and homes will be affected by this plan today, right now. Two and a half million dollars, wow, that's expensive. The city's portion of tax dollars should be used for improvements elsewhere. The money spent for the The benefits the path would bring are greatly out of balance. Remember, with our intense winters, four to five months out of the year, this path would be used by virtually no one. Connecting these paths for those that wish to use them is a good idea, but not like this. I urge the council to vote no and tell city planners that this route is too unsafe to be viable. Vote no and tell the city that the destruction and devaluation of this neighborhood for a special interest recreational idea is very wrong. Vote no and tell the city that tax dollars should be spent for needed improvements for the benefit of the majority, not some imagined hope for a population that does not now exist. Vote no and tell the city that this body has the common sense that was lacking when this bad idea was first hatched. It was a bad idea then. It's a bad idea now. Thank you, council. Thank you. The next public speaker this evening is Michael Smith. Hi, everyone. My name is Michael. I'm a member of I Bike Rockford. and I live in the Edgewater neighborhood. Tonight, I'd like to offer a few reasons why I think the city's ITEP grant application for the High Crest Path is something that is worthy of your support. First, the path is part of the recommended bicycle route network that's identified in the city's bikeway implementation study. this was a plan that was adopted by Council in 2020 and the city has been working swiftly to implement the plan's recommendations it's a good chance you've seen this plan in action in your ward with treatments such as signage shared lane markings and so on this plan that you've adopted has identified the high Crest path as a high priority due to it being a key East West connector which is greatly needed You've supported the plan already. I hope you'll continue to support the plan as it is being implemented. Second, city staff have identified the IDOT's Transportation Enhancements Program, or the ITEP grant, as a viable funding source for this project. Now ITEP has increased ITEP, where are they, IDOT has increased ITEP funding over the last few years, from just $50 million in 2019 to over $125 million in 2022. That's the largest annual amount in the program's history. The City's application for the PATH is competitive, and it checks off a lot of the required boxes, such as inclusion in a local plan, improved connectivity and accessibility, and local support, including a letter of support from IVEC Rockford. You've supported the City's pursuit of the ITEP grant for this project before. I hope you'll consider to support the application as the City tries again. Third, I'd like to remind the council that the majority of the Highcrest path already falls on city-owned right-of-way, especially from Spring Creek to Alpine. So the prospect of a path then is less an issue of conflicting ownership and more of an issue in conflicting access. If Highcrest is a public good, who has right to access it? My perspective, personally, our family is a one-car family by choice. We use our bicycles year-round to get groceries, go to the hardware store, pick up dinner. For us, a high-crest path would afford the same level of accessibility that nearly 12,000 motorists enjoy every single day year-round. We could walk to Anderson Gardens without walking in the grass. We could run errands more efficiently at high-crest shopping center in Edgebrook without having to navigate the existing patchwork that we do today. For us personally, it's not sport. It's transport. It's transport. The Highcrest multi-use path enhances east-west connectivity and increases accessibility for commercial destinations, all while providing the physical separation necessary for ensuring that all people, regardless of age or ability, are able to cycle where they need to go. Tonight, you can vote yes with the confidence that you have a Council-adopted plan, a competitive ITEP application, and the support of bicycle commuters and advocates like myself. Thank you. Thank you to tonight's public speakers. We'll move on to new committee reports. And we have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trena. Thank you, Your Honor. Code and Regulation Committee, item number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval requirements for variation to increase the maximum permitted square footage from 720 feet to 1 112 square feet to allow construction of an additional accessory structure in an r1 single family residential zoning district at 1341 greenwood avenue michael tremaine subject to condition the legal director the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number two the committee recommends denial of a special use permit for a gas station a convenience store and an r1 single-family residential zoning district c1 limited commercial zoning district in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 1334 and 1344 East State Street thus reversing the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of approval. I Item number three, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals denial for variation to increase the fence height from four feet to six feet within the front yard along Shenandoah Avenue. And B, variation to allow a chain link fence with plastic slats within the front yard along Shenandoah Avenue in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 904 Shenandoah Avenue. Stephanie Jones-Sullivan is the applicant. Item 4, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation for approval for a modification of an existing liquor license for the sale of packaged liquor and tobacco license to add additional corporate owners for a total of four corporate owners, and denial for the request to remove restriction on minimum ounce requirement for single-serve bottles of liquor, and the committee recommends approval of the request for change of store hours to 24 hours a day and add video gaming terminals in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District, 542 and 634 North Lyford Road, subject to conditions, thus reversing the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation of denial. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 5 committee recommends approval of the request for authorization To place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 57 98 logistics Parkway pin number 1 5 1 3 3 5 1 0 0 7 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Lastly item 6 the committee recommends approval of a modification to an existing liquor license For an additional video gaming terminal at 1710 rural Street rural on tap the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I Thank you. Thank you. So council there's six items before you is there any discussion on those six items alderman dirty Thank you your honor. I'm just a comment again on number four This is a gas station. That's in the first ward in my ward as a reminder to the alderman This is at the end of the tollway ramp. It is a Like an egress and an entry point for our city. We have some new owners The property has been sort of under stress for a bit of time, but we have some new ambitious owners there they've sought outside assistance to try to redevelop this property and Really try to make a go of it and make it look nice. We've amended some things to help them out and that I think should give them a pretty good jump start. And for the most part, it'll be up to them. But I really would like to see, for once, this property really take off and become something kind of nice as people come in and out of the city. So I think this proposal has given them that shot. So I hope you would support that. Thank you. Alderman Toomber. Thank you, Mayor. On item number one, for the 1341 Greenwood I won't speak necessarily on behalf of alderman logan although he probably wishes I would but no we're both in agreement on this and It's an individual who keeps their property impeccable In a neighborhood that we do sometimes have some issues with there's some great homeowners there But there's seems to be fewer and fewer of those and he is Again, homeowner keeps place great, and he has taken care of the lot next to him, actually purchased it. It used to be a residential lot, and he will be building a garage on that towards the back of his home. I've seen renderings of it, and it looks like it will be in tune to the neighborhood, and he also has approvals from his neighbors as well. So thank you on item number one. Thank you any other discussion clerk. Could you please call the roll turkey? No logan Toomer Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Quinones Meeks Bonnie Item number 112 eyes 1 no and it was 2 3 4 5 12 eyes I am number 6 10 eyes 2 nose all the wrong in Wilkins. Oh, I'm sorry. I Did I not call the woman Hoffman? I just wanted to change my vote for six to a no nine eyes three nose Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll move on to Finance and Personnel Committee and alderman to burg. Okay Finance and Personnel Committee we have six items and Number one, committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $7,709,278.10 as approved at the finance and personnel meeting held on September 12, 2022. Item number two, committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request for 1803 South 8th Street. The request is being made on behalf of William Cornish, the owner of the property. The owner of the property has abated all outstanding violations and is requesting the fine total of $5,470 be reduced to $500. Item number three, committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request for 1726 15th Avenue. The owner of the property has abated all outstanding violations and is requesting the fine of $2,000 be reduced to $500. item number four committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for exchange of services with rockford public school district 205 in support of rockford 5-0 program the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item number five committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with village of davis junction for snow removal insulting For 2,700 feet of Junction Road, the annual value is $6,750 with a 5% increase in each successive year. The contract duration is five years with mutually agreed one-year increments. The funding source is the Street Division Operating Budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number six, committee recommends rejection of the bid for the sale of the city-owned vacant industrial lot located at 4XX Short Horseman Street. pin 1122 405018 to seneca meeks of loves park illinois for his bid of 100 thank you mayor thank you we have uh six items before us is there any discussion on those six items no discussion clerk could you please call the roll turkey logoman tomburg terena prenti wilkins hoffman rose beach quinones meeks McNeely Bonnie and I'm number one. I'm sorry items number one through five thirteen eyes item number six eleven eyes One abstained one. No, thank you. Next we'll move to D redistricting committee and alderman Bonnie Thank You mayor Redistricting committee has one item which is to recommend approval of the new city of Rockford ward map attached to the board packet and Prior to council consideration, however, I move to amend the map to reflect adjustments to the boundaries between Wards 14 and 10 and Wards 14 and 1 as follows. Number one, the boundary between the 14th Ward and the 10th Ward will be adjusted so that the 10th Ward will include the area bounded by Charles Street to the south, South Alpine Road to the west, the northern parcel line of the former Colonial Village Mall in a clockwise direction following the eastern boundary of the former Colonial Village Mall to Newberg Road, then heading west on Newberg Road, then south on Sylvan Road to the starting point of Charles Street. And number two, The boundary between the 14th Ward and the 1st Ward will be adjusted so that the 14th Ward will include the area bounded by East State Street to the north, South Traynor Road to the east, the southern boundary of the right-of-way for Forest Plaza to South Malford Road on the west. Thank you. That's all. So we have one item before you that has a motion to amend. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. So we'll just take the amendment first Is there any discussion on that amendment all those in favor of the amendment alderman Bonnie before it say aye aye Those opposed Okay moves for next we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item seeing none clerk? Could you please call the roll jerky? logan timber Terina Frente Wilkins Hoffman Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? 12 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Next, we'll move to officers' reports. Does any council member have items to report? Alderman Rose? Thank you, Your Honor. Just wanted to mention a few announcements. First of all, On Thursday this week, there is a meeting at 6 p.m. at the Halstead Baptist Church where Trajectory will be presenting a project in the 9th Ward resulting in some solar panel project that they're putting in, and it includes a lot of community input. So they're looking to get community input at that meeting. Again, that's at 6 p.m. at Halstead Baptist Church. October 22nd Northwest neighbors is hosting the Northwest Fest on Rockton Avenue at the former schnooks building there will be events for children all the way to ages 100 so come on by bring your family check out the events there will be food and a trunk or treat. So we'd love to have people come to that on October 22nd from 1 to 4 p.m. I did wanna just make a quick comment also on the Belleville Prairie. I had the opportunity to go do a bucket list trip. to Glendive, Montana a few weeks ago. And it was one of the coolest experiences. I got to do some agate hunting, which is like a rock hunt where you find crystals in the environment. But the highlight of the event was to go dinosaur hunting, dinosaur bone hunting. And if you get a chance to go out there sometime, it's kind of neat because the location land mass out there kind of reflects like a desert more so than a prairie. And it's one of those areas that they refer to as the Badlands, but it's got cactus. It's got all these, all this cool fauna out there. People go out to this place as a tourist industry. Lots of people stay in Glendive for not only the dinosaur stuff, but just for the cool environment. And I I just think the Belleville Prairie is a treasure for a few reasons. There is nothing like it. There are very few prairies like this that exist anymore. I think in a time when we are experiencing global climate change and major issues within our environment, that this would be a primary. saving project that anyone would want to be a part of. I know that the board, the airport authority, has tried to make changes and things, but anytime you have an environment like this, it is just the rarest of the rare. And the species of animals and plants that exist out there don't exist in other areas. We already know the... Rusted Patch Bumblebee is out there. To me, it sounds like a tourist haven, especially environmentalists. And for us to even consider putting a road through it, I think, is just ridiculous. But that's kind of like a Rockford thing, I think, that we tend to do. We make these choices. like sending NIU out to DeKalb and putting our major Tech Training Center and Belvedere and all these other things like that's Rockford story, right and we're gonna do it again So I would encourage people to call the Rockford Airport Authority this is a gem of a gem and And the other thing that I think people don't understand is this is where the kishwaukee and the Rock River meet if you do any investigation of those kind of places around the world My guess is that there has to be some remnants of Native American heritage there. We know that the mound builders in this area picked places like that to hunt. They picked places like that to build mounds. They're not there, obviously, because that area has been bulldozed probably a handful of times. That area would be one of the most sacred areas in Native American heritage if we were to be around in the 17, 1800s. And so I'm not using that as a tool to have people start digging and go looking for that kind of stuff. I'm just saying that that place is a special, special place. And I think that the... The land Institute and them putting forth that plan to offer up alternatives and playing nice in the way that they have with the airport authority Shows the level of extent and professionalism that they put forward but also the fact that this really is a gem and I just encourage people to call the airport authority on it. It's just something that we need. Thank you Thank you. Any other reports all Roman Hoffman? Oh Thank you, Mayor. I just want to take this opportunity to thank everybody who came out to our 8th Ward Fall Festival and I really want to thank my team. We worked really hard on this, especially Suli Cadengo, who is president of the Rockford Regional Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Karen Hobbs from KH Food Safety Consulting Services, Polo Behrman from Behrman Moon Jumps and Party Rentals, Mustafa Abdal from Rockford Park District, Ricardo Montoya from Rockford Regional Hispanic Chamber. Kathy Dietz from Dusty Boots and Eighth Ward Pub. I also want to thank businesses at Five Points Mall, Hot Rods, Don Jose Coffee, and League of Women Voters. And this was a little different opportunity. We not only had things for kids to do so they could have fun, but we had a way for kids to pay back the community. The American Legion brought a table and let children make little cards that we are going to, they are going to be taking to our veterans on Veterans Day, the veterans that are in nursing homes. So it was get a little, but we taught our kids to give a little too. Turned out to be the most fun almost every child jumped in made the cards and some of their parents helped them, too So it was a great time and they really want one again next year mayor just hinting I Think you'll have that opportunity to vote Is there any other reports older woman McNeely then Beach then Durkee Thank You. Mr. Mayor I we moved forward with the redistricting committee tonight but on the on the city website that committee was canceled for today we didn't have a redistricting committee it was just an item on your agenda city council agenda it wasn't a committee no no it was a report out of a committee that If you recall, I believe it was last week, there was some discussion about having a committee. It was no longer needed. And Alderman Bonney brought forward a motion as a presentation on the City Council agenda on behalf of the redistricting committee. So it was not a separate committee. On the agenda it was. It was listed on the agenda, so I'm not following you. Under the committee. I'll show it to you. Director Meyer could you let everyone know what we're looking at so this is Looking at the agenda page 5 under item d 5 d 1 is the committee report that was read in by all of them Bonnie And then he proposed an amendment to their Committee report which was adopted and then the committee report was approved approved Which is the standard procedure goes at a special redistricting? No there was no there was no district meeting meeting today It was cancelled it was unnecessary Read in the committee report which was the basis right which is the report of the committee from last Monday recommending approval of the new Ward map mm-hmm any other questions No worries any other questions alderman other woman McNeely Of course Alderman Beach Thank Your Honor We've discussed this before on this council, and I'm not sure exactly if we can do anything about it all but the panhandlers especially around He'll find it a state street. They're in the streets. There was signs They're not going to car windows and I know that they're allowed to be on the sidewalks I don't understand how allowing to be on the sidewalks Can let anybody driving cars donate because they have to get off the sidewalk to come in the street you get the money I just don't understand how that works. I And when people call and complain, which I've got calls today, I don't know what to tell them. Our police are already burdened. They have a police appointment every corner, you know, eight hours a day. Checking for that can't be done. So I just bring it up again to say I'm confused with how it's okay for them to be on the sidewalk, it's not okay to be in the street, and how people driving their cars can donate to them if they're on the sidewalk. It doesn't make sense to me. So I wish there's some way we can craft some laws to maybe prevent this from happening at these major intersections. There's other places in town where this is very respectful, and I'll say that. Thank you for letting me speak. I would even go a step further and say I wish we could craft laws that they couldn't do it at any intersection, let alone the major ones. But actually just being at the Illinois Municipal League Conference this week, I had the opportunity to talk to Mayor Langefelder of Springfield, Langefelder. and Understanding all the major cities are dealing with all the same issues Especially around panhandling and talking to Mary Dolly and Peoria So mayor Langefelder had an ordinance Was followed by their police department and then they were subsequently sued to the tune of more than three hundred thousand dollars and so I said, is there anything that you would suggest doing? And he goes, don't do what we did. You know, 200 and like he joked and he said about two hundred ninety nine thousand went to the attorneys and about a thousand dollars went to the panhandler. And he said, don't do what we did. I share that frustration. Attorney Meyer can absolutely appreciate that frustration since I call him every day about it. Director Meyer do you want to at least explain which court kind of made this ruling and that it's not local? No, I would say that yes there there have been a number of cases nationwide dealing with the issue of pain handling I would recognize Alderman Beach is right on the issue is not pain handling It's it's public safety and people walking in the street And you know working with municipal attorneys understand they're getting the same questions that I am we are working on a Sort of a comprehensive analysis of the issue for the mayor's office, but I can certainly share that with the alderman But no, I don't want to go into the legalities at this time Understanding this has been a well litigated issue And I'd prefer not to do that in council floor without first completing the memo and maybe asking questions on that later on so then Just to follow up. You don't mind so then if a panhandler is hit by a car that it's just like a Anyone getting hit and the driver is going to be responsible for that Accident even though the panel is on the street shouldn't be industry. Is that is that the way it's going to work? So I IT DOESN'T MATTER WHAT YOUR PROFESSION IS, IF YOU GET IT BY A CAR, IF THERE'S A DRIVER WHO IS A CITIZEN WALKING, CERTAINLY IF THE DRIVER IS AT FAULT, THEN IF THE DRIVER IS NOT AT FAULT, THEN WHETHER YOU'RE A PAIN HANDLER OR SOMEONE ELSE SHOULD NOT BE AN ISSUE HERE. SO LIKE I SAID, I'M CERTAINLY WILLING TO, ONCE WE COMPLETE SORT OF THIS LONGER REVIEW Sort of what the history has been and what the landscape looks like and what are my recommendations we moving forward I can I can give it to the mayor's office and then When that's done, I'll make sure I share with the alderman. Thank you very much Alderman Durkee, thank your honor just been noticing something and some of our police reports and the chief can correct me if I'm wrong, but there seems to be a big uptick in fentanyl in Rockford. And I think this is horribly concerning because I don't think people understand the toxicity of fentanyl. About 200 micrograms, not milligrams, micrograms will kill you, and it could show up anywhere. It's undetected. It's really easy to slip into things and can't see it. There's no marker for it. And it will find its way into either cocaine or whatever people want to put in their bodies. And so I don't know how we do this and increase public awareness of that toxicity and that threat. I know people have substance abuse problems. I believe it's a disease. I don't think it's a crime. I don't think it's a crime. I don't know how we begin to engage these folks to get them the help that they need, but they certainly need to be. And it's difficult because an addict sometimes doesn't think very clearly. But this is a dangerous stuff, and it's finding its way all over the United States. And as I've watched our arrest reports, it seems like we have a pretty good uptick in fentanyl arrests. And I don't know what the ratio would be, but I'm assuming that when we catch a few culprits, there's far more that are running around with this stuff. So I know there's different places that they dispense naloxone in machines and things like that. I don't know if we have to go that far, but it certainly is – I think it's worth a community warning. Okay. regarding it and like I said, I I don't know if I'm correct as far as the statistics go the chief may be able to Speak clear to that, but it just seems like something I've seen in the police reports that we get. Thank you Chief Pankow or chief Fred would you like to add to that? Thank you mayor. Um, yeah, so we do obviously have And we do have an issue in this area and we are working with the health department coroner's office the Sheriff's Department the Rockford Police Department to support that program having said that we do currently have a program that We follow up from the fire department perspective with overdoses and we do treat and Or excuse me we do train family members on how to use naloxone in addition to that we also Recognize that fentanyl is Becoming a larger part of that as well So that is you know absolutely accurate. It is something that we are seeing more of and In addition to that, you just mentioned the dispensaries and things of that nature as it pertains to naloxone. And we are also looking at ways to get more naloxone out there through the health department. But, yes, that is obviously recognized that fentanyl is starting to kind of infiltrate, for lack of a better term, drug use. Mm-hmm. Next alderman Bonnie Thank You mayor. I just wanted to Comment on three of the other aldermen's officers reports. I'll start with the easiest one, which is alderman Hoffman. Sorry we weren't several of us were still at IML and couldn't attend but I I would also put in the plug for the inclusion of this program again in our ARPA funding for next year. The fourth of four Fridays in the 14th Ward was a week ago Friday. I can report back that as for the $10,000 that was invested in that event in the 14th award, the four participating nonprofits are going to be splitting about $4,000 in proceeds from food and beverage sales that is going back to them. So I think that's, besides the value of the event itself, that's a pretty good return on on the investment, at least in our case. And Alderman Beach's, I share his frustration. As a matter of fact, I received a text message today from a constituent complaining about the same problem with panhandling. And I understand the legal difficulty and certainly the First Amendment issues. I would still go back to I know that some information had been forwarded to I think Alderman Beach and myself about public awareness campaigns and this area not being successful but I wonder if we shouldn't still if we shouldn't reconsider that and maybe also and if it's a qualified expense add that into our ARPA plan because Again, if we choke off the money supply the problem goes away and we don't need to worry about the First Amendment legal entanglements and then finally I agree with most of what alderman rose has to say about the Belleville Prairie issue and I wonder if rather than individual aldermen who were are so inclined contacting our representatives on the Airport Authority Board if we might not want to refer this issue to the legislative and lobbying committee to be discussed and possibly for the Possibly for consideration of a resolution that might be recommended to the council Thank you. I can address we did take your comments to heart and looked at other municipalities and what they've done when it comes to COMMUNICATION STRATEGY. I THINK WE SHARED SOME OF IT THAT THEY HAVEN'T BEEN TERRIBLY SUCCESSFUL. ONE AREA THAT WE SAW THAT HAD NOT BEEN HIT YET OR ATTEMPTED YET IS WORKING WITH SOME OF OUR LOCAL NONPROFITS. AND SO WE HAVE PULLED TOGETHER SHELTER CARE MINISTRIES, ROCKFORD RESCUE MISSION, AND CARPENTER'S PLACE. AND WE'RE ACTUALLY MEETING THIS WEEK WITH THEM AS WELL AS OUR HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES TEAM TO SEE WHAT WE CAN DO I think it's one thing for me or other elected officials to say, don't give out money on the street, but I think it may come differently if we work in concert with the nonprofits that are there to help those with some of their greatest needs. They, too, are saying, if they, too, say the same thing, don't give money out on the streets. So we're looking at all avenues, and marketing is certainly going to be a piece of it. Thank you. Alderman Toomberg. We know that RHA – It has individuals put within our community and And you know, I'm wondering though if I could be enlightened as RHA and I don't know if Alderman Hoffman could elaborate on this Is RHA an actual can they be an actual property owner? I of a residence, say in a residential neighborhood. Yes, they can. So, okay, so we know that we have the RHA buildings, North Main Manor, Olsen Plaza, and the Third Ward. I just, I received notice from a constituent on two properties within their immediate neighborhood and that are continuously seem to be not in compliance. Brown Hills? Brown Hills. I've turned those on. Boy, you. They're on it. So obviously there's more people reaching out. Probably the same construction. Could be. But that just disturbs me. A fellow government, local government entity knows the problems that we have in Rockford, and as us aldermen have to continuously deal with, I would expect better from a fellow government entity to keep their properties in alignment with the neighborhood. So on that said, along the lines of Alderman Durkee and looking at the police reports on a weekly basis, almost daily basis, the one thing that I've noticed that I've been meaning to say for a while is a word that continuously comes up is uncooperative. And when talking with these suspects, with these victims, that word comes up way too many times. So there are individuals out in the community that are either victims of these crimes or witnesses to these crimes and would rather take justice into their own hands than... give the information to our police. So unfortunately we have a whole slew of our own citizens here in Rockford that know who's causing a lot of this angst and trouble to our fellow citizens in our community. Crime, no doubt, and everyone here I imagine can back me up on this, is the number one issue here in Rockford amongst our constituents, citizens. And it just peeves me that there are a plethora of individuals continuously going through our community that know who's doing this. But when confronted and asked by our great police department, they have to put in there they were uncooperative. And that's just saying enough right there. So just a little thing I had to get off my chest. So thank you. Thank you. Any other reports? Alderman Woodman. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to congratulate Allen Chapel AME Church. 131 years that they've been serving in the community as a congregation. My little daughter, Maya, and I got to attend the service yesterday, so that was a great thing. A great church on Rural Street, a good part of our community, so congratulations to Allen Chapel AME Church. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I was just going to say if there's any RHA concerns, I would suggest that you contact Laura because they are monitored pretty heavily by HUD and they lose points if something isn't maintained. So I'm wondering what happened here because they are monitored very heavily. I have contacted Laura it seems to be it was a contractor issue in that specific area not getting the work done In a timely fashion, so she's okay, so she's aware. She is addressing it I'm supposed to follow up late this week to see if it's addressed, but yes, it is an issue any other reports We'll move to motions and resolutions planning and development committee all the woman meets. Thank you so much your honor I Under motions and resolutions, there are three items. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance for Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program, or ITEP, grant, Riverwalk Design Engineering. This competitive grant has a maximum grant award amount of $3 million, which will pay for up to 80% of the project costs, with the project sponsor providing the remaining match. Item number two committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance for the Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program High crest Road multi-use path this competitive grant has a maximum grant award amount of three million dollars The grant will pay for up to 80% of the project cost with the project sponsor providing the remaining match. I Then item number three the committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the urban and community forestry grant This grant has an award amount of twenty five thousand dollars grant funding is provided by the United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service through the direction of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources the grant will require a a One to one cost match up to the awarded amount with the grant term expiration of 19 months from the date of Thank you council we have three items before you is there any discussion on those three items alderman Beach Thank You runner 20% match from Rockford is coming from what fund Mr. Hankins Which grant is this for? Well, the one that number one is in number two is Then we've got a one-to-one match for number three and it doesn't identify our source of of the participation For one and two for the I tip grants both of them are coming out of our motor fuel tax funds they are budgeted for in our CIP for the Urban and community forestry grant. I believe the matching funds would come out of our street division operating budget Thank you. Thank you any other questions? I Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Frost. I'm sorry. Logman. Wow. Sorry. My bad. You're throwing out daggers tonight, Chaz. I was thinking he was absent, so sorry about that. Toonberg. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Call the roll. One and two. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Item number one, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item number two, 10 ayes, 3 noes. And item three, 13 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Under the Code and Regulation Committee, Have five items item number one the committee recommends approval of tour de north end This event is scheduled for September 24th from 11 a.m. To 7 p.m. In the Olympic Tavern parking lot located at 23 27 North Main Street Item 2 the committee recommends approval of bourbon brisket and blues this event is scheduled for September 24th from 4 p.m to 7 p.m. At the Laurent house at 46 46 Spring Brook Road and Item 3 committee recommends approval of the Celebrating Our Story Rockford Public Library 150th Anniversary Celebration. This event is scheduled for October 20, 2022 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the City of Rockford Wellness Center Garage located at 120 North 3rd Street. Item 4 committee recommends approval of the Festival of Lights. This event is scheduled on the following dates and times. November 25th and 27th 5 to 11 p.m. Summer 1st through 5th 5 to 11 p.m. December 8th to 11th 5 to 11 5 p.m. To 11 p.m. December 24th all day summer 25th all day summer 26th and 5 to 11 p.m. December 31st, 5 p.m. to 12 a.m. The festival will be held at Sinisevi Park, located at 1401 North 2nd Street. And lastly, the committee recommends approval of Stroll on State, Dasher-5K, with IDOT resolution. This event is scheduled for November 26th from noon to 9 p.m. The 5k will begin at noon the parade stuff up top step off time will be at 1 55 p.m The parade route will begin at Main and Green Street and will end at State and 3rd Street The tree lighting and fireworks portion of the event will begin at 6 15 p.m. Street closures will begin at 5 a.m Lots 3 and 10 will be closed on Friday, November 25th at 4 p.m. I place these items Before you for review. Thank you. There's five items before you is there any discussion on those five items? I Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Logaman. Toomberg. Aye. Tarina. Frunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Toomberg. Thank you, Mayor. Aye. Five items tonight Item number one committee recommends approval of the award of bid demolition of 23 23 West State Street to n-track group of Loves Park Illinois in the amount of $104,780 funding sources construction services operating budget laid over a couple item number two committee recommends approval of the order bid citywide grounds maintenance to raise reyes rodriguez of rockford illinois and nelly garcia madrano of rockford illinois based on unit pricing with an estimated annual value of 125 000 contract duration is through december 31st 2022 with four possible one-year annual extension options annual price adjustments for cpi considered at contract renewal only fund Funding sources street division operating budget item number three committee recommends approval of the award of bid Northwest Channel Repair to so show strom and sons incorporated record, Illinois in the amount of fifty three thousand three hundred seventy one dollars fifty seven cents The project is estimated be completed by October 21st 2022 funding sources CIP general fund item number four committee recommends approval of the order bid HVAC replacements for fire station one in the fire shop to complete mechanical solutions in the Chesney Park and Illinois in the amount of one hundred and thirty eight thousand three hundred forty four dollars the funding source is ARPA funds item number five committee recommends approval of the order of professional environmental services agreement leaking underground storage tank assistance defer fair Graham engineering and environmental environmental of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of 47,700 Contracteration is two years funding sources property funding fund operating budget and Thank you. Counsel, there's five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Alderwoman McNeely? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Item number one, the West State Street project. I did meet with the CD director, and I told him that given the number of locations through your office that are being proposed or already up and running... Would reconsider it. However, I had enough individuals come to me wanting to Know what's going to be put there? I couldn't answer them because staff doesn't know what's gonna go there So I have a petition out that people are signing Regarding what they would like to see see there and I would ask that we lay this over so that we can have a Those petitions come forward before the motion or I'll make a motion to lay this so counsel We have a motion to lay This item over that is item C one. It was laid over initially on August 15th Is there a second we have a motion and we have a second Is there any discussion alderwoman Wilkins? There you go. Thank your honor. Um, I i can't really remember what we talked about um in august when we voted on this but um if we were to demolish the building does that have any impact on someone coming in and doing or rebuilding something else like i'm not understanding what the the motion of hold off on the demolition is i believe from it needs to come down i believe from staff analysis and please correct me if i'm wrong that it's actually more desirable of a site location it's actually a wonderful location but it's more desirable if the building's down uh it actually is of less value with the dilapidated structure on it right so i guess my question would be um to alderman mcneely for the What you're proposing or what you're vetting for from your residents with that need to be? Still up when that building need to come down anyway Yes, the building would still need to come down and what my constituents are asking me what is being proposed We've seen a number of buildings throughout the years come down and the community's not knowing what they're proposing to put there so it would be great if we could I find out what's planning on going there. And I can tell now. I can tell you that I think our initial thing is to get the blight removed. And I can tell you, without going into great detail, that we have already proposed that site in our discussions, economic development team discussions, of this is a great site. We need to market the site once the building's done. It's hard for people to see that vision with such a structure that exists now. There was many hands sorry alderman toberg mayor. I would second what you just mentioned So I was gonna about the same thing that you were gonna say was I was gonna ask that question as well And I just don't I see that property and I got to think that it would be easily to market as a open Property than what stands there right now, so I guess that was my my thought on Thank you. And there was other hands. One second. I'll get right back to it. Was there another comment? I missed alderman rose Yeah, similar to what you had said. I mean to me it almost seems backwards in the sense that Waiting for a petition on what to Put there like nobody has a proposal because of the actual building that's there I mean no one would what would want to build there because of the building so I am not against or i'm not for the change or the amendment and would hope that we would move forward with demolition so that Your petition can propose some ideas to the city on getting some developers to come in No developer is going to look at that that spot with that building on it. It's just that's a fact. Thank you older woman Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I think that I My concern could be avoided if staff would talk to the alderman prior to coming up with these, it's not a suggestion but a proposal. I think with this case, I know that I had talked with you way before now and I think it would have been very considerate. of you to have included me or the director to have included me in those discussions so i would be prepared to talk with my constituents thank you any other uh discussion um so right now we have a motion to lay this item over we have a second any other discussion uh clerk could you please call the roll uh i vote would be to lay this over again uh a no vote would be to move it forward with demolition turkey no logeman timber Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's Meeks McNeely I'm funny for eyes nine nose Excellent we have Five items before us is there any discussion on those five items seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll dirty? Logoman to bird to Rena Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenones Meeks McNeely Bonnie item number 111 eyes to nose items 2 through 5 13 9 Excellent. Thank you those pass next we'll go to new business. There's nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Torino. Thank you your honor Colton regulations committee I'm number one An ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum permitted square footage from 720 square feet to 1,112 square feet to allow construction of an additional accessory structure in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 1341 Greenwood Avenue. Michael Tremaine, applicant. Item number two, an ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license for the sale of packaged liquor and a tobacco license to add additional corporate owners for a total of four corporate owners. The request for change of store hours to 24 hours a day and add video gaming terminals in the C3 general commercial zoning district at 542 and 634 North Lyford Road. BP star petroleum or the applicants in ordinance approving item number three in ordinance approving the Authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 57 98 logistics Parkway pin 15 13 351 007 and lastly item number four in ordinance approving a modification to an existing liquor license for an additional video gaming terminal 1710 rural street rural on tap Thank you very much. Thank you. We have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. No on four. Bogoman. Toomer. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. No on one. That was no on one. Thank you. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Aye. Item number one, 12 ayes, one no. Items two and three, 13 ayes. Item number four, 11 ayes, two noes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to also say that it's been a pleasure as Vice Chair of the Finance and Personnel Committee to stand here today and take place for my friend Alderman Frost, who is Chair. Will say on behalf of the rest of the City Council it's great that you must read from a script for this portion of it Alright, I got two items Item number one an ordinance proving intergovernmental agreement for exchange of services with Rockford Public School district 20205 in support of Rockford 50 program and Number two, an ordinance proving an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Davis Junction for snow removal and salting for 2,700 feet of Junction Road. The annual value is $6,750 with a 5% increase in each successive year. The contract duration is five years with mutually agreed one-year increments. The funding source is street division operating budget. And I'd like to place those two items up for passage. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderman Durkee. Yeah, in honor of Alderman Thunberg's great performance, can we get a little gold statue of a guy and give it to him? Like an Oscar? Yeah, something. This is a momentous occasion. I'm getting my Alderman. Alderman Vox here is always low. Any other discussions? Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Terrell. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Canones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Redistricting Committee and Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I'm so tempted to also deviate, but... But I won't. Redistricting Committee has one item, an ordinance approving the new City of Rockford ward map as amended. I place that item before the council for approval. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Rose. Yeah, I just wanted to say kudos to the team of aldermen that sat on that committee today. I know it was a bipartisan effort, and I think that it goes to show that the city of Rockford is working for the citizens and not playing politics with its ward maps. And so I just wanted to say thank you to all of those committee members that met numerous times to hash out these pretty hard issues, and they did a fantastic job. So credit to them. Alderman Toomer. Thanks, Mayor. I'd like to also thank Colin, who's in the baton to hear, that spent countless minutes on this issue. Thank you. Any other comments? This is ours. I would just add a huge thank you to the committee, the thoughtfulness that went into it, the work that you did to make it as transparent with the meetings as well as providing time for citizens to have input. A special thank you to Colin as well as Jake for the work that you put into it. Really appreciate it all the way around, so thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach canona's Meeks McNeely Bonnie 12 guys One no, okay Next we're gonna move to my favorite point of the evening alderman bunny a motion that we convene in closed session to discuss labor negotiations I We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? We're going to convene and close session. So this is the computer. This computer. Yeah, so the phone is still moving. This computer, they might have an onboard computer. Onboard mic. And we might have this. Okay, we are now back in. We are now back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Tarina. Here. Prunty. Here. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Here. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Here. Rose. Here. Excellent. So we have a quorum. Is there a motion to adjourn? Is there a second? Second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. those opposed see the door have a good day