Good evening. We will call to order the City of Bratford's special city council meeting for Monday, September 23rd, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logerman. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prenti. Rose. Barrios. Here. Meeks. Bailey. Attend present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. We'll go to new committee reports and finance and personnel committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Senator. Well, you're going to say, were you skipping petitions and communications? I am sorry, Alderman Frost. I didn't have that you had any petitions and communications. We can certainly go to petitions and communications. Okay, thank you. There's one item under petitions and communications, a memorandum from Todd Hughes, Information Technology Director, regarding the outsource IT services, and this will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Now. We're going to do a very smooth transition to new committee reports And we're gonna go right back to finance and personnel committee There's one item on our new committee reports It's an approval of the parameters ordinance for the Turner School District to police station debt certificate Thank you. Is there any discussion on that one item before us saying no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Logoman timber bra Tarina Frente Rose, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey. Ten ayes. Excellent. Now we're going to go to motions and resolutions and go back to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item, which is the award of an RFQ for architectural services and mechanical services and appliances for weatherization services to total plumbing, CNM, environmental, Greenlink, energy, Excuse me in comfort first all of rock for the amount of 1.2 million dollars based on unit pricing The contract durations through September 30 2025 with one possible one-year extension Price adjustments will be based on regional market analysis provided by the DCEO The funding sources are the DCO Department of Energy Department of Health and Human Services and state supplemental Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before us seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll Durkee? Hi Logan frost Serena fronty Rose Barrios Meeks Bailey ten eyes. Thank you next we're gonna go to ordnance is and go back to finance and personnel committee I'll even frost here There's one item which is an ordinance authorizing providing for an installment purchase payment for the purpose of paying the cost of purchasing property and for the city of Rockford Winnebago and Ogle counties and for the issue not to exceed five million six hundred fifty thousand dollar debt certificate series 2024 of said city evidencing the rights to payment under the set agreement providing for the security for and means of payment under set agreement of set certificates and authorizing the sale of set certificates to the purchaser thank you sir I need discussion on the one item before you Claire could you please call the roll turkey Logoman timber frost Terina Prenti Rose Barrios Meeks Bailey ten eyes excellent Alderman frosted you have any other additional items for us once you're on I do at this time I would make a motion to convene in a closed session order to discuss pending or threatened litigation matters. I We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right. We'll recess for closed session. Okay. We are back into open session. Clerk, could you please call that roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Prunty. Here. Rose. Present. Barrios. Here. Meeks. Here. Bailey. Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion.