Good evening, Mayor Morrissey, Council. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, once again we call on your precious name. First of all, Lord, just a thank you. Thank you that you seem fit, Lord, that we would join together this evening. We pray, Lord, for your direction, that you would give the mayor and the council the direction that only you can.
 Although we may be able to plan for tomorrow, but you know what tomorrow brings. So, Lord, we pray, Lord, that you give us the wisdom and give the council the wisdom and direction that make this city of Rockford a better place to live. We ask all of this in your son Jesus' name we do pray. Amen.
 get just here McNamara yeah frost Harvey Connell Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg each Ellie a quick really sure Ellie so let me thank you very much prior to the journal I just want to acknowledge that within the journal presented there was an anticipation of a potential motion
 program was I was read to the agenda and there had been a request and there is a consultant in the city staff has worked with Raquel from the National Development Council who was prepared to make a presentation if council wanted on the section.
 following the whole program and various elements of it. I want to be respectful of council's time and interests. I didn't want to ask her to make the presentation unless there was enough interest in making a motion to have her make the presentation. So I would just leave it up to the council if anybody wants to move. And the council is so soft that that presentation can be made. Otherwise we could take a pass on it. So I guess I'd invite, is there any interest in having that presentation?
 Okay, so if not, then I would just thank her for being here. Ms. Favella, appreciate your willingness to present, but we will take a pass on it tonight. Then the underlying motion to reconsider, I would just invite anybody that's interested in making that motion. It needs to be someone who is in the winning side of the initial. All right, so we will move forward on the agenda tomorrow. Actually, I need a motion to accept the journal. There's been a motion, seconded, to accept the journal. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye.
 I close it over. I just have our first public speaker this evening. And I just remind our public speakers that they have three minutes to make their, I'm sorry, three minutes to make their comments. They can decide their microphones in the back of the chamber. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Yusef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of First Timothy, the third chapter, the fifth verse, it says if anyone does not know how to take care of his own house,
 How can you take care of the church of God? What I want to speak about tonight, the rewards of having a trauma level one hospital center in a community. It's been proven by the military and the medical association. By having a trauma level one hospital in the community that treats all ages of people,
 You save lives because you are cutting down on traveling distance so a person can be treated quickly. Time is critical in saving a person's life. A study published in 2013 found that people shot more than five miles from a car.
 trauma center area called Trauma Desert were 23% more likely to die. Why would you close the trauma center right from the mall on the west side and move it on the east side, Gilligan Island, where all the shooting and cutting is on the west side?
 where the trauma center is needed the most. They did another study, September the 4th, 1991, in Chicago, when Michael Reese Hospital closed its trauma center and hospital in Bronzeville, that the death rate for young black boys went up because of gun violence, and they had to traverse fast 10 miles
 by ambulance to be treated. They also did a study at the University of Illinois in Chicago, January 23, 1984, about the rewards of a trauma center for all ages in the community. They found out that a trauma center hospital was an economic anchor for the area it was in because it helped economic development. The hospital helped put people to work. It helped to lower the homeless rate, the poverty rate, and the crime rate because
 Business moved in there and set up shop and more people bought homes in there. The minimum amount of revenue a trauma center brought in the area was $2,850,740,220.18.
 So the 12 rewards and value of trauma center in an area is one, it saves lives. Two, it's an economic anchor for the area's end. Three, it helps put people to work. Four, it helps reduce poverty. Five, it helps reduce homelessness. Six, it helps to reduce crime. Seven, it helps to bring business in the area to open up a shop. Eight.
 Eight, it helps people to move in the area to buy homes. Nine, it helps bring their needed revenue to a city. Ten, it helps cut down on deficit a city might have. Eleven, it helps reduce blight in the area. Twelve, the most important thing, it gives people hope that somebody care about them. People on the west side of Rockford, you should stand up and speak up about the nonsense of moving the trauma center from the west side to the east side, which I call Gilligan Island. Thank you for allowing me to speak.
 Thank you. Our next speaker. It took me 36 years to finish this book. Now I have to read it to find out if it was a waste of time. This could be a great day for Rockford or a very sad day for Rockford. This could be a very great day for Rockford or a very, very sad day for Rockford. This could be a great day for Rockford.
 or a very, very, very, very sad day for Rockford. This could be a great day for Rockford, or a very, very, very, very, very, very sad day for Rockford. This could be a great day for Rockford, but it could be a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very sad day for Rockford.
 could be a great day for Rockford. Just warn all of them and pay attention. Or it could be a very, very sad, sad, very sad, very, very, very, very, very, very, very sad day for Rockford. This could be a great day for Rockford. And it should be. There's absolutely nothing to be afraid of. It should be a great day for Rockford.
 Or it could be a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very,
 or a very sad day for Rockford. This could be a great day for Rockford. You aldermen, this could be a great day for Rockford. Vote yes. Don't be afraid. The money is there. Abe Lincoln found it. Study it. The money is there. You don't have to worry about not getting the money. In five or six years, there's going to be more money than you know what to do with.
 The United States is worth zillions of dollars, and you're worried about $5 million? I don't get it. This could be a great day for Rutford or a very sad day for Rutford. The money is there. And that's the time. The time's now. So make it a great day. Thank you very much. I've got a new phone in the ringer change. It's not as obnoxious as it was before. Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Baldwin.
 I'm going to be writing a book titled, This Could Be a Great Day, no, I'm kidding. I'm going to be writing a book titled, My Adventures on Broadway. It will be true life happenings, but look for it in the fiction department because you won't believe a word of it. Maybe Karen will.
 Last Wednesday, I called the police about two prostitutes on my corner, one black, one white. Nine minutes later, I again called the police about two prostitutes on my corner. The call taker asked if I had just called about that location. I said that I had, but these were two different women. The prostitutes own Broadway. Last Tuesday, 9.30 a.m., my mother and I were at our local vet clinic on 11th Street. Any guesses on what we saw?
 No, it wasn't a prostitute. We witnessed a man and a woman who could barely walk or even function. I told my mother that they were probably on heroin. Turns out I was right. They didn't even make it a half block. An ambulance was called and the woman had to be taken away for a heroin overdose.
 The following day, Wednesday noon, my mother and aunt were going to the show. My mother called me and said that the same two people from the day before were on our corner walking down Broadway. When I saw them, they were sitting down and they could barely do that. I called the police because I thought they may need medical attention. The police determined that they did not and told them to leave the area and not return.
 It's been over a year since a bike cop has been seen on Broadway. It seems to be months since any officers have been seen walking a beat. It appears that after 5 o'clock, the police are on a skeleton crew and the streets are wide open.
 And I really don't want to, but if I have to, next week I will be telling you of ongoing code violations that I have turned in and absolutely nothing gets done. Month after month and nothing gets done. I've called my alderman many, many times on this over the months and she can tell you how aggravated I am.
 That's why Broadway is turned into the hole that it is. Our city leaders turning a blind eye. No one being held accountable. I will not be silent. I will be heard. On a final note, please bury the power lines. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Bradley.
 Good evening, there, Marcy. Welcome back, all of you, all the women and the students of Rockford, Illinois. This is part five. Matthew 5, verses 9, says, Blessed is the peacemaker, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are those which are prosecuted for righteousness, say, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when men shall reveal you and prosecute you, and shall say all minds are evil against you falsely for my sake.
 A juvenile arrest often creates stigma around students that lead to further delinquent activity. Omar Muhammad, a 14-year-old in Texas, had been flared with supports that made softening the blow. Experts say less than a day after the news broke that a 14-year-old Muslim boy had been arrested for having a homemade alarm clock, that was a mistake for a bomb. Express of support began flooding in from within communities around the country.
 Even from the White House. If an arrest student is re-admitted to school, that student often suffers from emotional trauma, stigma, embarrassment, and may be monitored more closely by campus police officers, school officials, and teachers.
 Jason Mast writes, schools across the country are becoming increasingly reliant on law enforcement to discipline students. Which critics of the practice say can lead to further disengagement from school and increased delinquency? What happened to this student all the time to students of color in school, says Sherri Hopper, Executive Director for the Center of Studies of Race, Equality, and Education?
 Most other students who I suspend they fail unfairly discipline at school. Most of them go to unknown and have no support and are made to feel like what they did is wrong. Even though what they did may not have been wrong, this issue is very rare, he added.
 Also, so now this hit right at home. We should be working on encouraging our minority youth to open up their minds to a vision, to aviation, science, math, not just dance and sports and rap. Our teachers not only should be able to teach, but should have skills of cross-cultural relations.
 Ever since the 9-1-1 attack on the World Trade Center, there has been a deep fear of morphing and abusing in this world. We have more Christians that are terrorists than we do morphings. We need to stop letting the terrorists have you all living in fear. This country was built on the freedom of religion.
 That was the real reason why the Pilgrims fled Europe and came to the New World that we call United States of America that is the home of the American Indians. Think about it. Did the Indians saw the Europeans as terrorists? They took over their homeland. So getting back to Rockford, we need to work with our young people and not be so quick to put them out of school. Look at what happened last week. Police say Baker was shot and killed.
 Friday, where I alleged to be trying to burglarize the house. And the woman who was inside the house is accused of shooting him with a gun. She's 29 years old and has a fella. So now, this weekend, so let's look at another one of our youth in the streets of Raleigh. I just want to let you know, you may not have heard of it here before.
 Okay, District Manager, I'm going to put the round letter right here. Just want to let you know, this year we are going ahead with education, training and jobs. But this Thursday we are taking youth on a tour to Rockville Register Star to show them something different. This Friday we're going to have a march on stop the virus and stop the killing. And that's at 3 o'clock. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to our speakers this evening. Thank you. Our next item is petitions and communications.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. Number one, referral. I have two items.
 A memorandum from Deb Dorsey, a grants compliance supervisor, regarding the 2016 draft annual action plan. This will be referred to Planning and Development Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Jovita Donahue, Economic Development Administrator, regarding the proposed Section 108 loan guarantee assistance to Cliff Breakers Riverside Resort Hotel, LLC, at 700 West Riverside Street. This will also be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you. The matter will be reported to the Board of Trustees.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have four memorandums. One is from Scott Capavilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the final plat of Israel of God's Church Subdivision. I have the minutes of the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting held September 15, 2015. I have the minutes of the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board meeting held September 15, 2015.
 2015 and a memorandum from Kelly notes assistant operations manager regarding the alignment Rockford Academy Expo 2015 on October 15th 2015 and the request for waiver of parking fees all these items where we will be referred your honor. I
 Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Welcome back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memo from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding the lease agreement between Rockford Housing Authority and City of Rockford for the Horton Keys Head Start site. And then I also have a memo from Chris Black regarding consideration and approval of a capital asset policy to gather and maintain information needed for the preparation financial statements. These two items will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you. Further petitions and communications?
 We have several that will be reading tonight. Thank you members of the community that are here to support the RVC Aviation Career Education Center day. I'd please ask to come forward including Andy Dolan, External Relations and Marketing Officer for Rock Valley College. Whereas it is well known that Rockford has a strong and growing and prosperous aerospace community. And whereas Rock Valley College has dedicated itself.
 to the exceptional and continued education of our area students. Whereas the new 40,000 square foot facility at the Chicago Rockford International Airport will provide a collaborative hands-on learning experience for future aviation maintenance technicians. Whereas Rock Valley College has celebrated the unveiling of the Aviation Career Education Center with ribbon cutting and open house that was held on September 16th, 2015, now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, who hereby proclaim,
 this month to be Rockford Rock Valley College Aviation Center Career and Education Center Month We urge our citizens to attend and support this new program and celebrate our community's work in the aerospace industry. I'd like to thank the city for their support of this project. Thank everyone who came to the open house last week and hopefully tomorrow it will be full of students again. Thank you. Thank you very much. We appreciate all your work. Thank you.
 And last week, I don't know if there was other council members that are here that were able to make it, but I believe I may have missed when I made my comments Alderman Connell being present there and I apologize to her. I know she's not here, but I'll pass it on to her and I just want to thank her as the Alderman of the ward for support for that project too.
 Next, we have a proclamation regarding U.S. Constitution Week. And I invite those that are here on behalf of the National Daughters of the American Revolution, Rockford Chapter, to please come forward, including Peggy Mangafort and other members that are in attendance. Whereas the Constitution of the United States of America, our guardian of our liberties,
 embodies the principles of limited government in a republic dedicated to rule by law. Whereas September 17th, 2015 marks the 228th anniversary of the framing of the Constitution of the United States by the Constitutional Convention.
 Whereas it is fitting and proper to accord official recognition to this magnificent document and its memorable anniversary and the patriotic celebrations which will commemorate the occasion. Whereas Public Law 915 guarantees the issuing of a proclamation each year by the President of the United States of America, designating September 17th through the 23rd as U.S. Constitution Week.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as mayor of the city of Rockford, will hereby proclaim September 17th through the 23rd as U.S. Constitution Week, and will urge our citizens to reflect upon the privilege of being an American with all the rights and responsibilities which that privilege involves. Would you like to share?
 Thank you, Mayor Morrissey. It is our privilege to join with the council in proclaiming our Constitution Week. We need to keep alert that our Constitution keeps us our freedoms, and that's what we enjoy in being able to join in this congregation tonight. Thank you. Thank you.
 Our next proclamation is regarding Manufacturing Day. And I'd invite the members that are here on behalf of Manufacturing Day to please come forward, including Bob Trojan, president of Rockford Linear Actuation and a Rock Valley College trustee, and Don Williams, apprentice administrator with Rock Valley Tooling and Machine Association. Sorry that Bob had to leave and couldn't be here, but Don is here accepting the proclamation.
 Whereas Manufacturing Day October 1st in Rockford was created to showcase individual manufacturers and to coordinate efforts to address the challenges of skilled labor in our community. Whereas many of our local manufacturers will open their doors to the public October 1st to highlight their industries and promote interest in the manufacturing sector.
 Whereas the Rockford Chamber and its Manufacturers Council, in conjunction with the Rock Valley College and the Rockford Area Economic Development Council, have organized field trips for all area high schools to visit local manufacturers. And whereas allowing students to learn firsthand about the career opportunities in manufacturing and to prepare academically for the range of high-tech, high-skilled jobs offered by our local employers is the first step in strengthening our local economy for the future.
 Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, hereby proclaim October 1st to be Manufacturing Day in Rockford. And we encourage our citizens to embrace the rich manufacturing history of our community and to support our local manufacturers and their efforts. Thank you, Mayor.
 Just to let you know about the event that day, we have 13 public schools throughout three counties that are participating, approximately 450 students, and there are 28 manufacturing companies that are opening their doors on October 1st to have two tours for each student and each teacher coming through. So thank you again for supporting our efforts for that day.
 Thank you. Our last proclamation is regarding Hispanic Heritage Month. And I'd invite those that are here on behalf of Hispanic Heritage Month to please come forward, including Rudy Valdez and other members of our Hispanic community that are here to accept the proclamation.
 Whereas each year the President of the United States proclaims September 15th through the 15th of October to be Hispanic Heritage Month. Whereas the City of Rockford recognizes the contributions made by persons of Latino descent in this area over the last 100 years and seeks to join with them in celebrating their culture and achievements. And whereas for the last 50 years Hispanic organizations have carried out their missions to foster progress of Latinos in Rockford in partnership with government, education, business, health.
 recreation and cultural institutions, most recently in uniting together under the umbrella of the Coalition of Latino Leaders. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim September 15th through October 15th to be Hispanic Heritage Month. And we urge our citizens to join in acknowledging the presence and unique contributions of the Hispanic community to our city.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Councilmembers. During Hispanic Heritage Month, that's when September 15th to October 15th is when the vast majority of the Latino countries celebrate Independence Day, as well as the celebration during that time period of Columbus bringing the Spanish people.
 culture into the region, South America and Central America and obviously Mexico. I have with me for part of the Coalition of Latino Leaders, there's quite a number, there's eight committees that we started about four years ago in order to help with the communication and the unity within the Latino organizations as well as going out to the different regional leaders and make that connection.
 I have Christina Peacock here. She and Catherine Valdez are the co-leads for the Communication Committee. Antonio Ramirez is Education Committee Chair. We have Board Development Chair Luz Ramirez, who is from Nuevos Latina, the Executive Director. We have, I'm the lead for the Public Safety Committee. We have Armando Cadenas, who's not here today, obviously, and he is in charge of the Entertainment Committee.
 We have Jaime Salgado for the political committee, Victoria De La Rosa for immigration committee, and I know I'm missing
 Gloria, of course, Gloria Cudia for business committee. So, you know, we all work together and we meet with different, like I said, regional leaders. We have monthly meetings, for example, with the chief. And now we, since April, we've started meeting not only with the chief but also with Sheriff Caruana to go ahead and build on that relationship.
 We meet with the mayor quarterly. We meet with the superintendent quarterly. We meet with a lot of different, you know, enforcement, you know, throughout the region. We also reach out into the Belvedere area with the state's attorney and so forth and so on. So anyway, thank you very much for this proclamation. Does anybody else want to? Muchas gracias. Thank you. Reports of committees.
 Paul Maderke. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. The first is the committee recommends approval of the preliminary development agreement with Hanley Lofts, LLC, regarding the vault repairs at 301 South Main Street in Rockford, Illinois. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two is the committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement with the Rockford Art Guild, Incorporated for art scene displays at City Hall Lobby for fall 2015.
 legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Lastly, the committee recommends approval for a request for a substantial amendment to the HUD 2015 annual plan. Oops, sorry. Just the first two. So the two items, are you moving to spend the rules? Yes, sir. Motion to sign the rules, Roman numeral 5, 8, 1, and 2 on our agenda.
 Sir discussion sorry there's no discussion this motion is for the rules all those in favor of suspended rules please say aye aye opposed no I said the rules be spent thank you your honor then I would place up for passage under roman numeral five a numbers one and two only matters of passage is there discussion hearing none clerk please call the roll turkey aye gotchas Ross hervey oda newberg
 speech oh yeah back with really surely 11 on a one a and 10 yes on a two thank you guys for the reports of committees
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under 5B1, the committee recommends approval of the sale of the city-owned parcels at the northwest corner of Harrison Avenue and Seminary Street, identified by three pins that are on the sheet here, which are part of the former Peoples Avenue landfill. The area is bounded by Quaker Road, Seminary, and Harrison Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Your Honor, move to suspend the rules on this item. Second.
 motion second 5 I I said your honor I place that item up for passage that was up for passage is there discussion I'm sorry Mr. Hayes
 Thank you very much for allowing me to interrupt. Last week when we discussed this item in committee, I indicated that there was a lease on parcel 001. We haven't been able to clear those issues. What I'd ask the alderman to be aware of is we're still seeking approval to sell all three parcels. It's just we may not be selling the PIN 001.
 until much later when we resolve the lease issues, if at all. So you'll likely see a publication and something coming back for bids on the two parcels, and we'll still seek the authority, the ordinance authority, to sell all three, and we'll pursue that, but we're going to maybe have to do it in two different transactions. Just wanted to be all of them aware. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any further discussion? Just a question for Mr. Hayes. I know we had, because this used to be a landfill,
 some potential ongoing responsibility for that. Do we have any provisions in the event that this particular use becomes a nuisance to the homes that are around that area?
 I know it's already part industrial. We've got scrap yards around there. We've got a lot of industrial uses, but we also have neighborhoods. So when we start talking about concrete and things, I'm thinking about dust. I'm thinking about noise. Do we have any provisions to protect homeowners? So a couple of things. Obviously, air quality is an important element of any industrial operation in the
 Illinois EPA issues air quality permits for operations such as a batch plant and that type of thing. So there is oversight and an interdiction of that.
 Second of all, this site in particular is quite a distance from any immediate residence and there's a lot of other heavy industrial uses in the area. So as a site for this type of use, it's particularly appropriate since there isn't any immediately adjacent or nearby residences. They're at least a couple of blocks away.
 And so we but as far as it becoming a nuisance, yes, there are mechanisms under Illinois law to address nuisances related to air quality from industrial uses. I just wondered if we had anything that we were going to include as part of the sale or industrial agreement. I can't I mean, I understand it's a distance away, but fire school is not a good place
 it's a ways away but I just wonder when you start talking about that degree of dust I don't think it's been an issue for a while with gunite but I remember a number of years ago it used to be the odors that dust dust won't be allowed to leave the site in an airborne fashion it's discernible or the or the IEPA will take action and if there's complaints they'll investigate and
 Most modern concrete plants have a lot of elements that try to knock down the dust and try to keep it to a minimum. And I think that that would be the idea here. But we would make certain that any of our rules and regulations are enforced as well.
 Mr. Ryan, did you have a comment or a comment? Yes, I just wanted to state that one of the requirements that we'll have as part of the site plan is to heavily burn the periphery as well as landscaping. So that will assist with noise as well as aesthetics of the site. Will that be coming back procedurally through the council? No.
 Your honor, the method will be that if the ordinance is passed, although we won't be able to take a vote on that tonight because there's not 12 in the chamber, but if the ordinance passes, then we'll publish and select.
 the council because all the net frost came in. I'm sorry we do have 12. But if it passes tonight, we'll publish the opportunity to purchase. We'll take bids. Those bids will be opened here at a committee meeting and be assessed by the staff to make a recommendation to council to award the bid. So it will be back in front of council for the award.
 Further discussion on aluminum and uber? Thank you, Your Honor. Do I understand then 001 is going to be taken out of this and offered at a later time? Is that what you're saying? That's highly likely. We're still working on whether we're going to be able to clear the issue or not. If we're not able to this week, then we'll be publishing for the other two. Would you still like authority tonight to include that?
 That's what I was asking. So it may not, you're asking for our vote on authority, but that may not be included when it's published. Right. But we'll keep working on that, Ellen. Thank you. There was another hand that was up. Alderman Beach, was there a hand up? I'm sorry. There was another. Alderman. Quick question. What is the lease period? I think I know who, but 15 years? A lease was executed in 1988. 1988.
 for the initial 20 year term was renewable with a very modest $200 fee for an additional 20 years so in 2008 receive that fee in the renewal notice so that the lease term runs through 2028 presently and there's no automatic renewal attached to the current lease not once the second 20 year term expires there's no renewals beyond thank you for the discussion
 Hearing none, other please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Odom? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? McNeely? Aye. Shirley? That's 11-12. Thank you. Thank you, matter passes. Are there any reports? Officers, reports? Few items to report on tonight.
 The first thing I wanted to bring to your attention, and I'm not sure if this has been passed out, but I want to do a reference that we have sent out another press release today regarding this tragic instance of a 2-year-old little boy, Kerian Knox, who has been missing and has been the investigation involving this individual little boy has been going on with the Rockford Police Department starting last week.
 He's an African American male, approximately 30 inches tall, 35 pounds. He's not believed to be abducted, which is one of the primary guidelines for the issuance of an Amber Alert, and was last seen in the care of a family friend prior to his disappearance. Our police department has very actively been working nonstop with the family and several law enforcement agencies. We continue to investigate all leads to ensure a safe and timely return of him to his family.
 uh in forget information regarding the timeline of the events and supporting details are not being released at this time due to the sensitivity of the investigation we urge the public to contact the rockford police department or crime stoppers with any pertinent information nothing strikes at the heart especially if you have young children then hearing about the case of a missing boy and we just pray for his safe return to his family and we applaud all the work of the family
 And our heart goes out to the family, friends, and all of our law enforcement partners who are working on this case. We pray for a safe return. Also want to mention tomorrow, the Department of Justice will be here publishing a report that they've been working on for approximately a year.
 The diagnostics team has been analyzing Rockford's violent crime patterns, conducting interviews, and will publish a report tomorrow. The presentation will be at 1.30 p.m. at the Nordloff Center. If you cannot make it, there will be copies of the report that will be made available. We'll certainly publish it to our website as soon as we are able to, and we encourage a follow-up discussion on that.
 One of the issues that I know will be part of the discussion will be youth violence. And with the tragedy that happened last week with the death of a 13-year-old and the various circumstances involving that homicide case, we know we have a tremendous amount of work to do. I believe this report will be a building block
 to continue to work on trying to connect and improve our approach to dealing with violent crime and specifically issues of juvenile violence in our community. Patrick Pontius, I'm not sure if Mr. Pontius is here tonight, but he is in charge on behalf of the White House on the Strong Cities team. Lynette McCray has been our Strong Cities representative.
 for the last year. Patrick is in charge of the entire program. He is fairly new to his new position with the program, but this is his first site visit to one of the strong city communities. There's 14 strong city communities throughout the nation currently.
 He'll be joining us tomorrow in that presentation. We appreciate the support that the Strong Cities team did in bringing the Department of Justice together with us to identify this significant issue, huge issue that we're dealing with, with violence in our community.
 Couple final points, just want to thank the council members that were able to make it to the IML meeting last week. There was a lot of good information and the ability to, to some extent, commiserate and some of the challenges with some of our partners throughout the state. Will point out, and this was a discussion I know in a number of my meetings last week, ongoing budget concerns that we have are shared by communities throughout the state.
 The city of Chicago has the most significant volume-wise issue at least. They just announced today in some pre-publicity release in anticipation of Mayor Emanuel's budget presentation tomorrow that they'll be presenting a $600 million increase to the city of Chicago's property tax rate, property tax revenue rather, and the rate will reflect that increase.
 That's probably a long time overdue given the fact that they've been underfunding their pension contributions, not paying on their ARC payment. We have been making that payment on the ARC. So while our hit is going to be significant and our budget materials have reflected that,
 We are to be cities like ours that have had to make their payments on their arc and have done it won't be in the exact same position although we will be in a still a very difficult position. So with that I just would say thank you again to Chris Black and our finance team and the rest of our staff who will be working with us as a council to work through the budget through the remainder of the budget season this year. Further officers reports? Yes, thank you.
 On September 8th, Gorman and Company filed their plat. I had asked the staff to, I called the staff member and asked them to have it on all 14 of our desks so we could see what that kind of looks like and I don't. Looking through my paperwork, I don't see it. So I'm seeing other desks, we don't have it here so I wonder if we could get that on our desks maybe before we leave if possible.
 Since that request came in midweek, the item was placed in all the Alderman's mailboxes about 10 days ago. So it's in your mailboxes. I'm sorry we didn't put it out on your desks and apologize if that wasn't delivered in a fashion that you asked directly. Thank you. Great, thank you. Thank you. Alderman Elliott. I just have a couple of questions. Two things. One.
 I would like information from staff on the feasibility of incorporating geothermal and solar and wind energy into the new police stations, what the practicality of that is or the feasibility. It doesn't have to be a huge report, but I know that I've talked with Jim Ryan a little bit about it, but if I could just have something quick in writing, I would appreciate that. Sure. And secondly, if... Yeah.
 Todd Cagnone could go over the timeline when a complaint, a code violation is put in, say for weeds or broken glass or something like that. What is the typical timeline, especially this time of year from the point when a complaint is put in to when someone might see the grass actually get cut?
 I would, Mr. Cagnone can work on that. I would just ask him, we have routinely presented reports that can give you the averages on any specific issue. We'd have to look it up. So if there's a specific concern from a constituent, we can go through as long as it was entered into our system. We can go through and find out how long it took on a specific case. Otherwise, we'd be giving averages. Mr. Cagnone, is that something we work with all of them in LEA on? No.
 That is correct, Your Honor. We'll be happy to provide the typical process for the various code violations, understanding that many of them follow a different procedure related to our local ordinances as well as state statutes. But we'll be happy to provide that information. So we can do it generally as well as if there's specific complaints on addresses, we can dig down and get the more granular detail on what happened in those specific cases?
 Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeil. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I first would like to say thank you to Alderman Hervey. There was a hearing by the State of Illinois regarding Rockford Memorial Hospital and she gave an excellent speech on, I believe it was Tuesday.
 explaining why we need full service hospital at the current location. I chimed in a little regarding that matter and understanding that there's
 really no way that we should be a city should be without a hospital on the west side of the city. I appreciate Mr. Bradley speaking tonight regarding that. This is a very significant matter that needs to be addressed, and I hope that the state of Illinois will take full consideration of the number of individuals that spoke regarding having that full-service hospital there.
 Secondly, last week for two days, I think at one point I thought maybe there was a special memo that was sent out throughout the city because I had three females with children that contacted me two and one day and one the very next morning regarding slumlords
 that there was mold within their apartments and they were all paying, I believe, over $600 a month for the apartment. They had tried to get the landlord to take care of the issue and the landlords had not taken care of them. I contacted Seth with Community Development
 and he immediately helped me. It turns out that the one landlord was very well known by the city, having problems.
 with the tenants and not maintaining a livable units. The second one was, the third individual was a different company that wasn't familiar with the city. I'm glad to say that that property owner did address the matter, so there was no need for the city to step in and help this young lady and her kids.
 But the first two, the city did help. Owen Carter with Human Services helped to get those two ladies and their babies in a hotel where they could be safe until they could find another place. So I just want to thank staff. When I got the calls,
 Of course, I was shaken with one, but I was even more shaken after getting three phone calls. And I think the total number of kids would have been nine kids total and three adults. So I was very pleased that the city, both departments, stepped up to the plate and was able to address it. So I want to just say thank you publicly to staff for helping these three young ladies and the kids. Thank you. Thank you. Well done, Herbie.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Several things I wanted to mention tonight. The first is the fifth ward meeting will take place this Thursday at 6 o'clock p.m. at the Montague Branch Library. And we are going to be discussing the application to substantially remove services from Rockford Memorial Hospital and transfer those over to a new
 400 and some million dollar facility on Riverside and the impact that that will have. I'm going to ask people, because the library only holds 50 people, I'm going to ask people not to attend this one if you don't live in the Fifth Ward because it's going to be crowded enough. Sometime between now and probably mid-October, I'm going to rent Clem Arboretum and I'm going to ask
 some experts from outside the city who don't have a dog in the fight to come and give people factual information about what it means to have a level one trauma center, what it means to have a cardiac catheterization lab within certain areas.
 Rockford Memorial Hospital is not just important to the west side of Rockford, it is important to the entire western region stretching all the way over to Dubuque, Iowa, but even more importantly the western region of Winnebago County, Winnebago, Pecatonica and other cities. And this does have a huge impact on them.
 I want people to have factual information. I am biased, but I've also researched this for the past couple of weeks since I requested the hearing and knew that this was coming.
 I am disturbed that comments that were made at this public hearing indicating that the City of Rockford has made commitments and promises to either do things or provide things that I think are inappropriate. One of which is that, I can't remember his name, Mr. Bay I think it is, said that he was assured that the city would be extending bus service to Riverside Boulevard, which currently I know we have a...
 pre-annexation agreement, but it's not even within the city. I called Mr. McVinney, who is the director of our ITB. I sat on that board for a number of years before being elected to council, and he wasn't aware of it.
 This has to be a fair issue for the community, not one in which regular citizens are overwhelmed and beaten down by political and business interests. And you have every right, Mayor Morrisey, to submit a letter of support to anyone that you want, but not on behalf of the city, in my opinion, because I don't support it, and I think there's a lot of people who don't.
 And when a panel of the state that is considering an application gets a letter of support from the mayor, that carries weight.
 And I want to be clear that that was not brought to this city council. The city of Rockford as a council did not endorse it, you did as a mayor. And I resent the fact that it's being shocked as having the support of the city of Rockford and the Rockford City Council because it's not us and certainly not me.
 So I will rent out Clinton Arboretum and I will tell the city as a whole it's not going to be a dog fight. It's going to be an informational meeting. And I'm doing everything I can to get some disinterested professional physicians in the emergency room and trauma people to come into the city and give us the P's and Q's so we know what we're deciding on. We're not blinded by $400 million. Okay.
 Second, I want to congratulate and thank Mr. Ryan. I don't do that very often, but in this case, he and Owen Carter, George is not here, but some of his staff at Human Services have been running a program for a number of months now wherein ex-offenders have been cleaning up the Barbara Coleman building. I've been down there several times, but I went down last Friday. The newspaper was coming through to take a tour.
 I wish everyone could go down. Fridays, I believe, are best. Friday afternoons, whatever. There's about 15 of them that are in the program.
 absolutely amazing the work that they have done. Not just to clean up the building, the tons of debris that they have removed. When you walk into those buildings now, you can actually see the possibility. Before, you were coughing and choking because of total pollution and the dust. But you can actually see the bones of the building and how the potential that it actually has. But they found some old shelving units and some
 huge brackets that were holding the shelves. And they would make tables. They're mind-boggling. I've already got dibs on one. And they used the brackets for the tables and the old industrial spools for the legs.
 One woman, there's one woman in the program I believe, and she did an inlay with this table that will just blow your mind. Amazing people, and I know some of them are going to be watching tonight. Now, I have a young cousin who made some mistakes and was in prison for a number of years. I did not know he was in the program, and I'm not going to choke up.
 But when I walked in, this very tall young man comes over and gives me a big hug, and I had no idea who it was. And it was my little cousin.
 I'm so happy to see it in the program. So congratulations to all of you for sticking with it, for making the commitment to change your lives. Don't touch my table. I still have dibs. But I also want to talk with Mr. Ryan about how we can incorporate these young folks, these folks, to actually sell those tables. I go over to the Randolph-Strauss
 Street Market in Chicago a couple times a year, their work rivals the industrial reclamation that they're doing over at Randolph Street, and I truly mean that. So I want to buy it
 Last thing, I would like for staff to speak on the status of, I saw Mr. Fittner earlier, the South Main Street project. I got two calls yet again today about whether that project is going to be completed from South, I'm sorry, from Clifton Avenue down by Clay Marboretum, at least up to Montague by close of fall of this year.
 People are tired of this work. I know it's been dragging. I don't care about the excuses of which team is doing it, whether it's concrete or asphalt or anything else. The project is woefully behind, and it is causing huge problems for the people who live there. Their yards are going to be dug up for the second year in a row through the winter. We had pipes freezing, and they say it's not their fault. You've got an old house.
 This is beyond acceptable and I want to know whether the state or the city is going to do something to help people. If we have another winter where as many pipes freeze as last year, these are old homes and they're not doing anything to help them. So what is the status and who's in charge? If the council will indulge, I'll ask Mr. Vintner, our city engineer, to give some background on the status of the project.
 IDOT's currently planning to complete the project from Montague to the south, and they're working to clean up the medians and put the curbs in. They did some landscaping in front of the homes north of 15th. They're working on retaining walls. They're also working from Kent Street to Mill Street as one of the last segments for this particular season. The work between Kent Street and Montague will continue on in the spring, unfortunately.
 We've had conversations with the Illinois Department of Transportation. I am requesting that we have a meeting with them, like I previously stated, to get a clear picture on what their management thoughts are and what the contractor has done there over time. It's clearly a project that's been extended for many different reasons.
 and I don't want to go into whose fault is what here, just the fact is that the work will continue yet again in the 2016 season unfortunately. So I've been involved with several conversations with various individuals including our district two director Paul Lodi and his management staff and there's been a lot of discussion
 discussion about what's been going on, the difficulty in the project, the various issues. And I'll just say, without giving any excuses, the engineering approval process has been stymied by the, you know, you're going to hear this probably from, if they were here they'd probably be talking about it, but my observation was,
 there's just a lack of staff. And so some of the things, like even getting a transportation, we spent a lot of time talking about the getting approval on the traffic routing plan that has to go through a different office and the bureaucracy and all kinds of stuff. Unfortunately, it's not good comfort to anybody who's been belittled.
 troubled by the project status and the delays that have been occurring. I would just say that we will do our best to work with IDOT to get it packaged so that it is easier this year than it was last winter going through it. And I think that's one of the current efforts. To allay your concerns about water services freezing and things like that, there'll be no more roadway opened up and left open for the winter like it was when they got caught short.
 The areas that they're currently working in will be totally completed and we won't endeavor to allow more work to be torn up that will be left open in our partnership with IDOTS. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Related to the plaque that Alderman Aldo has.
 asking about flat number three of the Newtown subdivision. Could Mr. Cagnoni give a quick update on the process going forward, what this council could expect during the review? And also, because I get a lot of phone calls from my constituents, now that the plat has been filed for review, if he could do that for me, I'd appreciate that. Mr. Cagnoni, could you give a quick summary on what the procedural process would be once the plat has been filed?
 Certainly, Your Honor. So we received the subdivision plat approximately a week ago and under our normal procedures we send the plat out to all the utility companies for their review and comment. Upon receipt of any comments that the utility companies may have, we concurrently review to confirm that the final plat that's proposed is consistent with the tentative plat that was previously approved on the property.
 Once we work through those issues, our staff will prepare a report that reflects the comments from the utility companies as well as the conformance or non-conformance with the subdivision ordinance and have it referred to codes and regulations committee for consideration. It wouldn't become before the full council or final review. What's the likely timeline for that referral?
 I'm understanding that we sent it out a week ago. We have another week before the comments come back approximately, and depending on what those comments would be, approximately two to three weeks before the referral is made. Was there a site plan attached to this plaque? Mr. Scagnoni? No, we have not had a site plan submitted. It was just a plaque.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll come back. Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. I just want to remind everyone that we will have our first budget hearing this Saturday. And so I want to remind all the aldermen to please attend if you can. You know what, Mr. Black, can you clarify what time it starts? Yeah. I'm sorry, Mr. Black. I didn't turn your mic on. My apologies. Thank you.
 Thank you. We were planning on a 9 a.m. start, similar to what we've been doing previously. Till midnight. That's agreeable to the alderman? Thank you. I was joking by the way, you heard me. I said till midnight. No, it's going to be, we're currently scheduled to go at 9 until noon. Is that right? Or how many hours or did we put a time? Hey, we could spend the whole day if we wanted to, but I think we are going to call it mercy at some point. We're currently scheduled to go two hours. We know approximately two hours. Thank you. Further officers reports?
 Yeah, just one addition to DuckTale and Alderman Hervey's comments. I did also go see these guys and it's all theoretical until somebody shakes your hand and says thanks for a second chance. So they, the men that I met wanted to relay to the council, each of you as individuals, their gratitude and their thanks for supporting the second chance.
 And so they are doing remarkable work. These are remarkable guys. Everybody's afforded some grace in life, and these guys are very, very appreciative. Any further officer reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I know that you spoke regarding the baby that's missing, and I hope that we have pictures out for the baby. My heart goes out to the family, the very best to them.
 I look at this little baby and it reminds me of my niece, my nephews, a few of my nephews and my family. It really hurts. I do hope that we find him healthy and okay. I pray that God will bless the family and bless him and make him home safely. Thank you. I hope media has this. Thank you. Thank you. Any further officers' reports?
 Just to add one other comment to all of Herbie and all of Durkee's comments and thanking Jim Ryan and the rest of our staff who worked on the employment partnership with an incredible group and team. The one thing that we've discussed which is very interesting about the project is that
 skills and various backgrounds in terms of education. And the neat thing is that it's sort of a multi-track, working on skills development and some of the certification and education classroom work at the same time. And that's a model that we think has potential to be expanded so that employment and classroom work can be offered in more instances than it historically may have been. So thanks again.
 All right, perfect. Just very quickly, one of the things I've asked that our legal staff research is whether the city could form, I know they all have their lead and I believe asbestos abatement certification. Correct. When they finish working with this program.
 Can we form a company or a training program within the city that would allow us to contract with these individuals to do some of our environmental cleanup or to be supplemental to the
 staff to some of the environmental companies that get bids to do the city's work. I think almost all of these individuals, now they all do reside in the city of Rockford, and I would love to see us be able to have a stepping stone to future employment.
 because this program can't go on forever. I would like to know, I would like for our staff to actually look into whether we could do that. Mr. Hayes, I know, because we talked about it quite a bit, and Mr. Ryan, working with our CD staff and human services staff, have asked that very question. And I know Mr. Hayes has been trying to come up with some different options for us to consider, one of which, the easiest might be temporary employment that we would hire directly.
 as opposed to when you do contractual work, you get tied up with some of the rules that we have in procurement bidding. It's the easiest thing, and this is just a quick answer. There's a lot more analysis that's going on.
 But that might be one of the options as opposed to getting waivers, prevailing wage or Davis-Bacon or whatever else that might be brought up. So that direct hiring I think is an option that we should look at on at least a temporary basis for seasonal work that we might do, whether it's in demolitions.
 that works construction I'm just a courier staff some follow-up time with Council that's one of the ones we might want to pick up at one of our retreat dates moving forward for discussion I'll just leave it up to them to consider what's the best way to communicate back to staff on it or to Council on it
 Thank you. I'm just wondering, is this an ongoing program or was this a pilot program? This is really a pilot project, but I'd ask Mr. Ryan maybe to speak to that in a little
 It was a pilot program under the Community Services Block Grant through the Community Action Agency. So it's something that we tried and it's been pretty successful, particularly when we started with 20 and 19 went through the program. But at this point it's not a recurring revenue. It's just gone through the CSBG program.
 Director Davis is looking for other sources where we can continue to keep the program going, but at this point it was a pilot. Thank you. This... Yeah, go ahead. It just sounds like a very... You don't get a lot of programs where all you hear is good about it, and I think this is something we should really investigate, especially with us having our parolee callback. You know, maybe there's something through that that we could help people before...
 because problems after not after thank you thank you for their officers reports and finish business look good thank you honor my one item under a Roman numeral seven eight one sale of a lot of three weeks out Central Avenue for a minimum bid of eleven thousand dollars place that up for passage for a second or seven eight one three or eight South Central Avenue sale of a lot to discussion
 straight just by way of reminder this is the one of the back end of the rci demolitions rci has built this city ten thousand five hundred dollars we posted we want to post this for sale
 at that amount plus the cost of advertisement so we can recoup that. We don't anticipate there will be bidders. The development agreement anticipated that RCI then would market the property either to adjacent property owners or for non-subsidized single-family owner occupied residences. They have two years to find a user for the property within those parameters. If they don't, the property reverts back to the city.
 it because there's a to settle property under the municipal code this requires the affirmative vote of 12 alderman and that's everybody in the chamber tonight thank you thank you for the discussion area none please call the roll dirty I got just I'm not going to frost curvy
 McBailey? Aye. Chiarelli? That's 12. Thank you, Madam President. Further unfinished business? Lower back row. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a report for approval for the award of sale of property at 200 North Johnston, the old Henrietta School, to the Carl E. Palms Funeral Home for a bid of $1,000. Please ask for suspension of rules. Actually, we don't need a suspension of the rules since it's unfinished business. I don't believe Mr. Hayes do. I'm sorry, what?
 It had previously laid over, so it doesn't require it. So I would withdraw my motion then and just place it up for passage. Thank you very much. The matter is up for passage. It's a new discussion. I'm sorry. It looks like I have another item too, Your Honor. It was on the next page. The second item is improving the award of sale of property part of a vacant lot at 1015 First Avenue to Mark Donbaugh for his order of $1,500.
 I thought I saw another three zeros there. Fifteen hundred. Same time of night. So, for fifteen hundred. Place those judges up for pay. So, that'll be two items up for passage. Room number seven, C, one and two is their discussion. Alden Newberg. Thank you. On the former Henryetta School, if you look at these two bids,
 It seems like there might be something wrong with them. The one bid for $1,500 and then, I mean, Carol Ponds is a very good organization, but I cannot support selling a block. This is almost a full city block for $1,000. It's got a building on it. It's got a usable building. They're going to use the building, and it's a business versus an individual.
 don't think a thousand dollars for
 city land, this might be part of the problem why we're in the trouble we're in. We're not getting adequate money for our property that we have. Again, I think it's a very worthwhile business. I understand what they want to do for the area, but I cannot support selling that amount of property with a functioning building on it for $1,000. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mr. Hayes had a point of information. Yes. There were two bids received, one for $1,000 and the other was for $1,500.
 There was no detail in the other bid what they were going to do with it. We feared that there was not evidence of capacity of that entity to steward a full city block and a, you know, the school building. The other issue that the PONS issue resolves is PONS is being relocated at taxpayer expense due to the West State Street project and
 And so placing them here at just the modest amount, it's fine. If they bid more or charge more, the city would be paying them to have on their relocation up to a certain amount. So by way of the capacity of their, or the tenor and the content of their proposal, which was by far and away better than the other proposal we received, we had a lot more confidence that it would be an effective use of that former school building. There were no other viable options.
 bids for this building. We put it out for public bid. There were no other takers out there so we felt that given all the circumstances, this was a strong opportunity for the city to resolve a relocation matter, to have a reputable business that's been in business with our community for a long time, undertake the stewardship of that and to place this back into active use with the responsible owner. And we didn't have any other options.
 that we thought were viable. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman McNeil. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Good afternoon. And thank you, Attorney Hayes. Thank you for your comments because certainly,
 Carly Ponsky and Wilhelm certainly has been a part of the city, definitely a part of the African American community. And what we're looking at here is not $1,000 for a piece of property. As Attorney Hayes has said, it's part of the West 8th Street redevelopment, which would require the state to pay them for another property. So when you look at $1,000, it's truly more than $1,000.
 than what we're seeing here. This was a bid, open bid. They needed the qualification. They paid their $1,000 once they made the bid. But I hope that the alderman would understand that this is not $1,000. This is much more than $1,000 because it is part of a
 of relocation for ponds to move from West State Street in Johnston to Mulberry Inn in Johnston. They would much rather have preferred to stay on West State Street where it's more visible than moving to Mulberry, but that option
 wasn't available to them and to be able to build on West 8th Street would have cost considerably more than what they're looking at here. And not only that, but it would have cost the state through the city more money to have them build or possibly relocate at some other location. So I supported this. I support that business.
 I'm very proud that they're willing to stay within the 13th ward. I know that the residents as well as their patrons appreciate them staying within that community. So I don't want anyone watching this tonight think that Ponds got a building for $1,000 and that was it, because that is not the case. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion.
 Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. And again, this is for Roman numeral VII, C, I and II. Mr. Hayes, sorry. Is there a dwell within the chamber? And obviously, all of the new work is approached and we wouldn't have the 12 votes necessary. So we need 12 to enact a sale and transfer of the property. So there's been a motion and secondly, the matter over. Is there any discussion on that?
 All in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Nice to have it, thank you. So I'm sorry, that was for both of the items. So we'll go to roll number eight, the finished business ordinance is laid over. Is there any items there? I don't believe there are. Just want to check on all nine appointments laid over. Alderman Beck, do you want to take that? Yes, your honor.
 We have a memorandum for the reappointment of Chris Black to the Fire Pension Board for a three-year term. I ask for, put that up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage is the reappointment of our Finance Director Chris Black to the Fire Pension Board for a three-year term. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. I just have a thank you. Thank you to Mr. Black for his continued work in these very challenging times.
 I'm going to attempt motions resolutions thank you and others one item committee recommends approval of the resolution approving and adopting the stormwater master plan this is a passage passages their discussion all the judges yeah I just saw like take a moment to what thing Marcy leach and whole lot stormwater team in the public works department for putting together what I think is a
 you know very solid forward-looking plan I know that over the last several years between the IEPA US EPA consent decree and stormwater master plan has been the hours worth of work hundreds of pages of very meticulous and sometimes mind-numbing documentation and complying with these
 various regulations so I really do appreciate the effort and I think that the city will be much better off as a result of this plan thank you thank you your honor and I wanted Ms. Leach Mr. Bittner all of our staff to know that my lack of support for the stormwater master plan has nothing to do with the quality
 and the dedication that they put into the plan. I just find it unconscionable that part of this penalty, if you will, goes to the State of Illinois, almost half of it, I believe, a substantial part, when they, in fact, were at fault for not implementing and enforcing some of the rules that would have led to compliance.
 That to me is just a huge issue. I absolutely disagree with the penalties and I have a huge objection, even if I don't believe it will pass in the state of Illinois, to the idea that we're required to seek permission to establish another unit of government, i.e., a stormwater utility to handle this.
 I just think that's reprehensible. The last thing Illinois needs is another unit of government that can tax us into oblivion. So the fact that it's in there and could happen, I don't think the federal government or the state government should have required us to do that. And for that reason, I object to the plan, not the substantive portions, but certainly the funding mechanism. Thank you for the discussion. Here, Senator Longabeach. I'd like to just...
 I know the amount of money was at $5.3 million a year, but understand that if we comply, we're going to be inspected by every six months, and we could be out of that in three years. Now, is that true, but is it also true that we continue to spend $5.3 million, as I think Mr. Hervey is suggesting, forever? Mr. Hayes, do you want to help us with that? I think that the...
 reality that faces us is that continuing compliance with the Clean Water Act will require expenditures at this scale. There's an awful lot of the activity, though, that we do for other reasons. As I mentioned last week, part of the $5.3 million is our street sweeping program. Obviously, we would engage in some sort of street sweeping even if it wasn't part of our Clean Water Act compliance. The reason that it's included in the analysis is if we don't have a compliant
 than we could be run afoul of the Clean Water Act. So maintaining compliance of that act does require a number of activities, and there might become different methods and means to comply with those activities. Some of the capital expenditures may fluctuate over time.
 So we may have a year of horrific outcomes in our improved streams and waterways, but we could get to a point in time when that expense would ease off because there isn't as much breakage, damage, repair required. So we find that in low
 flow years where there isn't, you know, where we may be in drought or semi-drought conditions, there isn't as much irritation and damage done to our structures. So there's less of that type of work to do. So we'll see it fluctuate but the city council should contemplate that the scale of compliance
 is not really going to change dramatically over time going into the future. So this is our commitment to comply with the Stream Water Act will be closely measured during the consent decree period. But that obligation will not go away once the consent decree period is done and violations in the future would result in significant penalties through the enforcement agencies.
 I would also point out just if there are additional technical questions and if it gets beyond me, Richard Davis is here, our retained counsel, and he can assist in answering some questions. Well, I'll ask you to follow up if there's any. Thank you. Then I guess the other question then would be what is the net difference or net cost to what we're doing now?
 compared to what we're already doing in that number such as you said spiritually the man is probably other things as well so what is the net difference that were signed not to hear for so I said not well I didn't know if Mr Hayes want to take that or Mr Black or Mr Hanson
 With regard right now for stormwater, on any given year, it may average out to be about $1.5 million, maybe up to $2 million. So as Director Hayes had mentioned, it could be up as high as $5.3 million. It depends on what breaks, whatever fails at that point and what we have to address at that given time. So Mr. Hayes, did you have anything to add?
 I just want to make sure there's no confusion between the physical infrastructure elements of the stormwater system which clearly are capital items which the scope of expenses that we're seeing in that environment are the figure that Mr. Hansen expressed but we
 the full cost of compliance which included elements related to the personnel to do all the engineering and all the repair work we have to do as well as the management and monitoring. One of the new elements that we've built over the last few years includes an industrial inspection program. Those are personnel costs that are not going to go away in the future.
 aside from the capital expenses that might fluctuate, that the full cost of compliance of the Clean Water Act is more along the lines of the 5.3 million. And you shouldn't expect a multimillion-dollar discount at any time in the near future. We foresee that being a static amount or not fluctuating amounts in the near term. And so that...
 That's why your staff has built to this point. The 2015 budget, as I mentioned, reflects that full compliant amount. That full $5.3 million is in the budget this year. We know how that feels because we're living it right now. So if I could maybe add some perspective on how to characterize this. The combined expense of the $5.3 million is $10.
 dealt with in our budget both on the operations side and the capital side. We anticipate that moving forward and it could fluctuate but we would know that because we would have programmed it into our capital plan discussion and our operations plan discussion. So for example, 2016 the budget that's already been presented by Mr. Black and correct me if I'm wrong Mr.
 the discussion we've had about any gap that's already anticipated these expenses I believe. So you won't see a delta or a difference after we pass this on what Mr. Black's conversation is already in. So we're feeling it and it does have an impact because those are dollars
 resurfacing roads, doing some other aspects of our public works operations. I guess the good news is we've already been programing it. We know that we've been looking at this, as Oliver Getsch has said, this has been something developing for years.
 We've been trying to build this in and anticipating what it might look like and feel like. So we've already been having some of these tough conversations about how it can impact our operations budget and our capital budget. So from that standpoint, you know, it doesn't feel great, but at least we've developed an appetite and a diet to manage it. Does that help? Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on the item? Mr. Hayden, any other comments from staff? Thank you. So we have a  Your Honor, just  this is just the stormwater 
 plan or document there later in the agenda tonight is approval of the consent decree thank you thank you for clarifying so for us gender role world 10 a I don't want some of our passage of any further discussion clerk was on the roll turkey I got just back there across her beat photo Newberg I'm being sorry oh yeah all right back with really sure I
 11 a.m. on May. Thank you. I'll move down to those regulations. Thank you. First item is a special event permit for the Auburn High School Homecoming Parade on September 24th. Second item is a special event permit and SP liquor license for Boylan Alumni Oktoberfest scheduled for Saturday, October 3rd.
 And the third item is a special event permit for the Miracle Mile 15th annual Rock and Bowl car show scheduled for Saturday, October 10th. The fourth item is a special event permit for the head of the Rock Regatta scheduled for October 11th. The fifth item is a special event permit and SP liquor license for the Merry and Bright Stroll on State scheduled for November 28th.
 Place these items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Up for passage in a Roman oral, 10B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please come forward. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirely. Aye. Ten ayes, all five. Matters passed. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to read in items 1 through 13 except for 5 and 6, I'm sorry, except for 4 and 5 and then I'm going to take them separately afterwards. So first is the approval of the award of bid for snow removal equipment to the sole bidder Raybind Snow Pros for the value of $970,000.
 Next is the award of bid for fire apparatus testing repairs to global emergency products for their bid of $14,657 plus $85 an hour for diagnostics and repair. Next is the award of bid for demolition of 1417 11th Street to Northern Illinois service for $79,841.
 Next is item going on to item 6 is approval for the award of sole source contract for Madison Street, Oak Street intersection overhead utility location to Commonwealth Edison for the contract amount of $67,459. Next is the change order number 1 for police evidence warehouse security fence installation with Rock Valley Fence.
 for an increase of $17,750 for a new not to exceed total of $36,550. Next is the resolution for improvement of the Illinois Highway Code for Sandy Hollow Road Highway Safety Improvement Program in the amount of $180,000. Next is the Environmental Enforcement Consent Decree.
 vouchers in the amount of $9,283,578.93. Next is the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services and Rockford Township to provide emergency rental funding. Item 12 is the Early Head Start Child Care Grant Application. This is a grant that is
 And the number 13 is the resolution expressing official intent regarding certain capital expenditures to reimburse from proceeds of obligation to be issued by the City of Rockford, Winnebago and Oval Countings. And I place those items up for passage. So we'll take first under Roman 10C, we'll first take items 1, 2, 3.
 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 set on the oil yes take those items first discussion thank you Mr Mayor item number 13 on if I may have an explanation of of what we're having there thank you Mr Hayes let's take that 13 Mr Ryan this is the let's take Mr Hayes
 This is a reimbursement resolution item, I believe. So if we issue bonds and we've completed some work...
 that the bonds are going to fund prior to the issuance of the bond. We need to pass a resolution, a reimbursement resolution, so the city can pay for, if they have to pay a contractor prior to the bond issuance, we can pay out that money. And then after the bond's issued and we get the proceeds back, we can reimburse ourselves. And this is the method that we have to go about doing. And this is for the BMO parking debt? That is correct. Thank you. Discussion? Follow-up?
 I'm sorry I'll turn it over to you. Sorry I do have one question regarding item 9, I'm sorry not item 9 it is item 6, I'm sorry item 6 is this overhead utility relocation does that involve
 placing those underground or is that just the relocation of the wires due to the intersection change? Thank you. That is just the move of the poles for the upper tier parking area for the Ingersoll sports complex.
 I'm out of the the entrance of where they're they're they're placing it this is the one that they drive away yeah I have to do with the driveway incursion okay I just want to make sure I remember thank you thank you for the discussion all number okay and number nine is the the fine correct that's the actual payment of the final straight so the state
 that this is the approval of the consent decree which includes civil penalty of the $329,000 thank you thank you for discussion of these items I'm hearing none everyone that's um C under room 10 C 1 2 3 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 we're having no further discussion on those hearing no further discussion by the police call the roll Durkee
 Gatches? I'm standing on 6-9. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Hervey? No. Odo? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Elliott? Beck? McNeely? Shirelli? Aye. Okay, so that's 11-C-1-2-3-6-7-8. That is 10-11-4-13. 10-C-6 is 11-9-1-7-8.
 C, nine is ten ayes, two noes. That is all passed. Thank you. Number four, I am going to recommend, I'm sorry, I'm going to move to amend items four and five to change the recommendation from denial to approval. So four will read, the committee recommends the approval of the award, as well as five would say committee recommends approval of the award. Can I make that motion?
 Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to change your 1 and girl 10 C 4 and 5 from denials to approvals. And both of those made a motion respectively. That motion is on the floor. Is there discussion? None. All those in favor of the proposed amendment, I'm going to ask the House to please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I stab it. Then I replace them up for passage. Two items as amended are up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, I'm sorry, I'll move for off-scene. Thank you. I know this matter has come before us on several occasions in my position and it's always remained the same. And there was a letter that the Register Star wrote, had their opinion page talking about it. And there were several items in the paper that were not in the paper.
 I just felt needed comments. First of all, they mentioned that the city buried, when they rebuilt Harrison Avenue from 20th to Mulford, that all of the underground utility lines were buried underground, and that's Anon Kishwaukee. And I drove both those roads this weekend, and that's just not true. The only lines that have underground connections are the light standards. Everything else was relocated and moved.
 I am definitely for it. I think from an aesthetic standpoint, it's very nice to have underground utilities, and I wish ComEd would offer that to our city on several projects, but they don't. And to put a cost like this on these two particular roads, especially Harrison,
 driving on Harris in this area, you drive past Kelly Williamson's Depot where semis are next to the road, you drive past Sjostrom Construction, you drive past many vacant industrial commercial buildings. And so I don't think we're getting impeded on people or businesses coming to Rockford because of our quote unquote unsightly, worst in the nation utility poles.
 I think that goes more to do with our taxes, our poverty, crime rates. Those are indicators when outside businesses are looking to come to Rockford, more so than the impediment of someone not coming to Rockford due to a light pole, or whether or not it's above ground or below ground. And the fact of the matter is we just have a very limited budget, and my position is that instead of using this
 these projects and their costs, which are several million dollars, that these funds could be used better in our CIP to work on the reconstruction, repaving of a number of other roads that are frankly falling apart that have high car counts like Mulford, Alpine, 11th Street, just to name a few.
 So I don't believe there's been any impede in the business. Of course, I think from an aesthetic standpoint, it looks much better to bury the utility lines, but I don't think it's a deal breaker for our city. I don't think people are not coming to our city because of the way our utility poles look in an older city like Rockford. I think other issues are much more prevalent in why people aren't coming, including taxes. And I know we spoke about
 the rider earlier this summer and that was defeated. But if we use our CIP money for this, then that just abandons our CIP money. And so in the end, the citizens actually are going to end up paying more and we're going to have less money to spend on other projects. So I think people should be cognizant of the tax rate in Rockford. And I'm
 based on those factors, I just don't think it's a great idea to do this at this time when we have such limited funds and we have a state that is in such financial disarray and we don't know whether we're going to be receiving MFT funds and when we're going to be receiving those. But we do know that we have basic city services to provide to people and folks would definitely like to have and see better roads throughout the entire community instead of spending,
 $4 million to bury poles along two roads. Thank you. Thank you. You know, there are 743 homes off of the Harrison Avenue poles alone that have gone out with power and for long periods of times. We have to look at reliability. We
 In 2013, there were 3,718 accidents in the city of Rodfords. Of those accidents, 360 were classified as fixed objects. So when somebody hits the polls and it goes down, who's going to explain to my business people, Alderman Ellia's business people, and Alderman O'Connell's when her businesses are affected off of the Harrison Avenue project?
 The CIP pays for reconstruction of corridors, stormwater, neighborhood, ward plans, and anything that falls in the city right of way dealing with infrastructure. This is all part of our 2020 master plan and I think that we need to be able to do that
 to put this in. It's a little over $8,000-some-odd. And when talking to Matt Vittner, we could rearrange some things regarding our industrial area. We're basically caught up on fixing those roads, and we could just extend them out a little bit. But for my residents, who are without power, not Alderman Frosts,
 Not anybody else's, but for my residents who have to do it time and time again. For my businesses that are in my ward that go out time and time again, I would like to see it come out of the CIP package. Thank you for the discussion. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Connell could not be here due to an illness and I would be remiss if I did not. I do know that she wanted to ask the alderman to please vote for this, that she's not happy with it coming out of CIP. She's also, like myself, not happy that ComEd
 putting in more money for, and Comcast for lines that we're burying for them. That aside, on this section, there are two other sections that we have already put the lines underground. So, to keep up with, to be consistent on one of our major thoroughfares, I feel we have to bury these lines. But I will tell you, I will be
 very vigilant in doing whatever I can to get Comcast and ComEd to come up with a little more money towards this. I understand what the state has set up or what the state requires, but sometimes it's for the best interest of your customers.
 My husband and I had three businesses. Sometimes the customer is right and you help them out. And this is a good point that ComEd and Comcast should remember because I think they both have contracts coming up. Thank you. Thank you. If I could just provide a quick point of information. I appreciate those comments. I'll let my neighbor organize that. I was looking at you. I looked right behind you and saw George Gallwer, who is here. George works for Commonwealth Medicine.
 Again, if you just indulge me for a moment, he and I had a conversation while at the IML meeting, he now works for ComEd, he's former mayor of Freeport. We had the conversation, which I know Alderman Frost has talked about a lot, as have other council members, which is that first, if ComEd's going through a modernization process throughout their service area, might we look at some agreed legislation moving forward that helps
 Not maybe in every case, but it helps in some of these major corridors carry the burden across the rate payer system. Ultimately, there's always someone who pays. Whether we pay or it's the comment of, you know, payers directly in our local area or throughout their whole service area.
 I look forward to having a conversation as we head into next spring. I'm willing eventually this legislative cycle and we'll get a budget, the state will move forward. But really when we start looking at our planning for next year, I think that's a, those are very good ideas and discussions that we can continue to have. And I know there was another hand that went up, Alderman McNeely, then back to Alderman Beecham. Thank you. I, I, the last time we discussed this, the question that I had,
 put forth was how many residents would this cover and I don't believe I got an answer. Staff have a chance to look at all of it. Odo mentioned a certain number. For Harrison Avenue alone, there are over 4500 accounts that are on Harrison and at any given time, 743 homes bought. That are impacted by this? Yes, by outages. And that information came from?
 yes yes thank you did you follow up to that no thank you all the trailers I'm sorry all the pages next time on the beach yes sir thank you I don't believe the spirit of the CIP program is the very cables underground when we really think about it carefully
 the people that voted the one cent tax for infrastructure i don't believe in that the thought was to bury utility cables i don't think so i don't think so and i think we have to be very careful i commend our staff for being as creative as possible using those funds to leverage other major projects in the community i don't see that here and i uh like alderman frost i i welcome
 a consistent process of identifying which major corridors should be going underground, finding a funding source, set a plan up like we do other plans, and then every year go for that. And in the meantime, if we can get some leverage from either cable or ComEd, that's all the better. But I just personally, I think it's
 I can't support spending the four million bucks over this year next year from the CIP program so sorry I wish they could I can't thank you sir this is a point of information I point out that I have to go to him right now they're under a million dollars I believe so it's not that that's all that's on the agenda just yes but I under well then sir last week I think we were told it was
 this amount for this year and next year would be I'll say that may have been a discussion I just want to point out as the chair That's not on the table here Alright thank you Thank you To me I believe there's not really a wrong vote here I understand everybody's positions on this The thing that I like about this is that it's not on the tax base as far as property tax that exempt property tax
 people or businesses would have to pay for this. People that come from out of town that use our CIP, that buy our goods and services, are helping donate to this through their sales tax. So I just want to say there's really not a wrong vote on this. I hope you vote your conscience, and hopefully everyone will get through this. Thank you. I think Alderman Kirby was next, and then we'll come back to whomever. I missed the phone number. Okay.
 Certainly some of the projects that I've supported have benefited from some of this money and having some of the wires placed underground. My argument against it, however, is that now the creep has come into play. It's every project. It's every road project. And it's not going to end. When taxpayers passed this 1 percent sales tax, we called it a road tax, and so did they.
 And they call it a road tax for a reason. We substituted the word infrastructure, because that can mean almost anything. Don't anger your taxpayers by having them feel that they have been betrayed.
 We do it constantly. That's why we don't have home rule in this city. So we have to go begging the state to allow us to master our own destiny. And our own citizens don't trust us to do it. Even if we technically are allowed to use this money to bury underground wires, that's not what our taxpayers intended and we all know it. So all I will say is tick
 When this thing comes back up for another vote, we're going to have a harder time convincing people that we will be honest stewards of their money and do exactly what we told them that we would do because we're sucking a lot of money out of the CIP. I would probably support this if we hadn't started incurred making incursions into the CIP for the Gorman project. We're using it for economic development and that's not what it was intended for.
 I feel bad that we don't have another choice because Rockford doesn't have the flexibility to manage its resources in a way to support economic development. But part of the reason we don't have it is because taxpayers took away home rule. I want taxpayers to know that we're going to stay true to our word even when it hurts sometimes.
 and this is something I almost feel like I'm being punished for not supporting the comment right so if you're not going to support the comment writer the need of we're going to take it out of the CIP then you have less than the CIP that is true but I'm not going to take it out of the CIP I think you can recall those handles up next you know I'm a little I you know it's we pounded Matt's head
 when it was suggested that it was, and I just had the figures here, 49 cents, and we all got these memos. They were all given to us. And I believe that it would have been for a small residential about 43 cents that would come out of their home off the electric bill if we went with the rider. A medium residential, 65 cents, and would probably be for about four months.
 Larry George's residential 87th said, so these figures, it's not something I'm pulling out. It's something that has been figured out with staff and with comment. You know, we're digging up and we're not going to do what we should do. And again, so my residents and the homes that are affected, so sad, too bad.
 So who's going to take and give them money when their food goes bad? Or when a business has to close down and say, well, you know, who's going to refund them if we don't do this? They did it on Harrison towards the post office. Did anybody say anything with that? Because if you go down Harrison, cross Alpine all the way down the post by the post office, I don't see no utility poles or utility lines.
 So why aren't we doing it for this? When are we going to do it? Five years from now and re-dig everything up so businesses and people have to keep suffering outages. Well, we don't want to make the taxpayers suffer. Thank you. Do you have any budget support information? Can I ask staff to clarify?
 In the past, just to be as accurate as I can, we've done a mix of burying as well as just relocating to get out of the way of cars or it could be a sidewalk or it could be whatever the issue had been. That's one item I wanted to mention as an additional. And I'd ask the staff to tell them which roads were which if somebody wants to look at it. The other point I want to just mention is a point of information, on the ballot when we ran the
 last both referendum and I was always setting the structure and I know it one or both of the campaigns that we included flyers that had pictures of our firefighters during the Keith Creek flood, during various issues involving stormwater and we've always discussed that there is more than just roads although obviously roads has been one of the expenditures.
 for the comments on it for us. I just want to make a point of order. I drove down Harrison all the way from Kishwaukee to Mulford, and when they did the east part of Harrison, just for the record, so all aldermen know, that on the north side of Harrison, and staff, correct me if I'm wrong, the only poles that are underground are the light poles. All of the utility poles are moved to the north, but they're there.
 I just want to also clarify a comment that all of them made. I'd love to have you come out to my ward and see and drive the entire width of Riverside from Forest Hills to Perryville and see that there actually aren't underground lines there, but we also have in the 4th Ward a whole strip of businesses along the road that are serviced
 above ground utilities. And I'm sorry, I mean, you know, we have an insurance agent here in the City Council, you know, if your business like the paper says goes broke because you lose your, I mean, I don't know if it was a retail business, but if you lost your stuff,
 The City of Rockford is not the insurer of that, and sometimes ComEd may be, sometimes maybe not, but that's why you need personal responsibility to get your own insurance policy. We can't insure that someone's going to have the capability to come back to the City of Rockford or hold us liable if they go broke because they didn't have insurance. So I just want to make that point clear for the record. Thank you. Thank you.
 One other additional point of information. A, I believe you're accurate. And B, I think when we were talking about it in one of the other instances, when we were discussing the LGC right area specifically brought up, Riverside is an example where if
 If you look on the Loves Park side, it's different from the Rockford side. And part of that may have had to do with the standards when we were doing the subdivisions that were, the commercial subdivisions that were being developed out there. Our current standard requires, I believe, generally, that any of those commercial or residential, for that matter, work that would be happening now would have had to be varied.
 Generally speaking, when we can, we put that work on the backs of the developer who's benefiting financially from it, and that's our current standard. So I just want to be clear on that. Is it inaccurate? I think you were doing the same. Any staff want to comment, or is that accurate? If you desire some clarification on that. I'm going to use Mr. Bryant's microphone. I just stepped forward in case you desire to hear some clarification on the Harrison thing.
 relocations and what the scope was actually involved there. If we need anything more, is Council wanting to do more on that? I think we're good right now. Thanks. Any additional Council comments? Just a clarification on business loss. We had a business that we had lost power to. I ran some numbers. Our business loss for loss of electricity power would be between $10,000 and $12,000 a day. That business loss is not made up.
 because that cash flow pays mortgages, rent, benefits, and things like that. Those are fixed costs that we accrue on a daily basis that we have to cash flow for. So our patients would come in. If we can't service them, we still need the cash to pay for that. Those people will displace other people, and we don't make that money back. So it's an actual business loss. There is no insurance for that.
 There is insurance for that. You absolutely can get insurance for a business loss interruption for a certain number of hours, absolutely. And especially for a medical, I mean, you also can invest in the generator that several businesses and homes actually do that are affected not just in Rockford but throughout the nation. Thank you. There's a survivalist show that we may want to watch. I'm joking.
 Thank you. I think we've covered the topic. I don't know if there's anybody else that wants to chime in, but if I don't hear any further discussion, I'll ask the clerk to call the roll. This is on items C-4 and 5 in a Roman numeral. Fenton, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Ketches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Kirby. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Newell. Elliott. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. A on C-4.
 7 and see if I have four numbers of both yes matters both of past thinking new business under your honor I have two ordinances under new business from the number 11 a one and two development agreement with handling I'm sorry development agreement with handling laws LLC regarding vault repairs 301 South Main Street Rockford Illinois and the development
 And number two, a development agreement with Rockford Art Guild for the art scene displays in City Hall lobby for fall 2015. So both ask for suspension of rules first. Thank you. There's been a motion to set the rules on Roman numeral 9A. I'm sorry, did you read all of those? No, the two did not. Oh, okay, I got it. Yep. Roman numeral 9A, items one and two. Your Honor, that would be Roman numeral 11A. 11.
 11 a 102 thank you thank you there's been a motion second second rules under 11 a 102 all in favor please say aye aye opposed no nice to have it thank you rules will be submitted thank you please close up for passage as of for passage is there a discussion hearing none please spell the role aye pass pass thank you all in favor aye thank you your honor
 I have one item it's the sale of city-owned property at the northwest corner of Harrison Avenue and Seminary Street identified by the three pins that are on their paperwork which are part of the former People's Avenue landfills. Your Honor, I move to suspend the rules on this item. Second. I take these motions and second the suspended rules. All in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. I say I have the rules resubmitted. I place this ordinance up for passage Your Honor. I move to pass it. Is there any discussion? Chair Keith? Aye. Gitches? Aye.
 MacMurray Aye Frost Aye Kirby Aye Odo Newberg Aye Beach Aye Bec Aye McNeely Aye Chiarelli Aye
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services and Rockford Township to provide emergency rental funding. And then I have an ordinance authorizing the issuance of a general obligation bonds in the aggregate amount of $6,500,000 for the purpose of undertaking repairs to the concourse parking deck. And I would ask for suspension of rules on these items. Thank you. The next item of passage is the...
 11 C. Is there a second there? Is there a motion, second? To suspend the rules of 11 C. Item 1 and 2. All those in favor, please have. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Say hello. Motion to be suspended. Place them up for passage. Passes up for passage. Is there discussion? Aye.
 Mr. Hayes. On item C2, that is corrective of the ordinance adopted two weeks ago. We've got a different version of the ordinance from bottom council on Friday. So we need to adopt this as it relates to that bond issue. Thank you, Your Honor. So this has to do with corrections to the language pursued by the council? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you, sir, for the discussion. Mary Nott, clerk, please roll. Gerke? Aye. Getzos? Aye.
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Shirley? It's 11 on C1, Your Honor, and 1 nay. And that is 10 on C2, Your Honor, and 2 nays. Mayors can both pass. Is there any further, this is before the council?
 Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. Is there a motion and a second to adjourn? I'm going to put that in there. I say aye. For Jim Ryan's... I say aye. Jim Ryan's daughter is coming to the table.