Okay, I will call to order the city of records regularly scheduled city council meeting for Monday, September 20th 2021. or could you please call the roll. Logamon to. Frost. Printer Wilkins Hoffman. Rose beach. Neeks Bonnie 13 present.
 Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on August 30th, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Motion passes. Next, for petitions and communications, we'll move to Planning and Development Committee. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you so much, Your Honor.
 for planning and development committee item number one we have a mirandum from anquinette parham health and human services director regarding the regrow grant quick deployment awards and this is referred to the planning and development committee thank you next uh we'll move to code and regulation committee alderman rose thank you your honor
 under item one we have the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on september 21st 2021 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regulations committee meeting on september 27th 2021 item 2 liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on september 21st 2021 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on september 27th 2021
 Item 3 the memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 4970 Linden Linden Road referred to Code and Regulation Committee
 item four a memorandum from megan mcneil assistant city attorney regarding the approval of a resolution establishing that all ilcc review or appeal of all orders or actions taken by the local liquor control commissioner of the city of rockford shall be made on the official record before the commissioner referred to code and regulation committee
 Item 5 a memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding the proposed amendments to section 3-5 8 of the city of Rockford liquor code for new gaming licenses classification referred to Code and Regulation Committee and then item 6 a memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding the proposed amendments to section 3-5 8 of the city of Rockford liquor and
 Code to establish a sip and shop liquor license classification referred to code and regulation committee. Thank you alderman rose next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you. First is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty finance director. Regarding the approval of the 2021 property tax levy 2021 property tax abatement. 2021 street and bridge ordinance 2022 fee schedule. And 2022 appropriation orders.
 This matter will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Rob Willoughby, Brownfields Redevelopment Specialist, regarding the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Illinois EPA to establish a long-term household hazardous waste collection facility. This will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel. And then, Your Honor, number three is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the proposed purchase agreement for city-owned property. This will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you.
 Thank you Alderman Frost. Next we'll move to public speaking. Just a reminder there is a microphone on the back right and the back left of council chambers. Each speaker has three minutes to present to city council. You will then hear an obnoxious cell phone ring alarm which is mine which means bring your comments to a close. With that our first speaker is Reverend Earl Dotson-Sena. The Bible.
 Which commandment is the first of all? The Lord is one. You should love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. The second is this. You should love your neighbor as yourself. There are no commandments greater than these. I'm continuing where I left off last week. I quote from Stephen Binet's work in which he talks about a slave ship captain who is dutiful and is paralyzed.
 but he was totally oblivious to the unrighteousness of the traffic that he was trafficking in. Brothers and sisters, there is no wage, no wedge between the love of God and the love of neighbor. They both die without each other. The second law is like the first. It means the same as. If a man despises God's other children, how can he love God?
 The Manufacturing Resource Cooperation Act and ARPA and other legislation emanating from Washington is replete with words such as closing the wealth gap between the races, equity, economic development for persons of color. Whether it's ARPA or any other piece of legislation emanating from Washington, these words are there. You'd never know it from ROPA's near non-existent approach to this malady of racism.
 What are the goals for the black business ownership? Roasting small sums such as five, $10 million, employing 50 persons, paying them $50,000 with a payroll, probably about $2.5 million. These are very, very small bills. It delights me that the Manufacturing Resource Act that's being enacted in Congress is allocated, Congress is allocating $20 billion to address part of this.
 And it gives me great delight when I look down and see some of the directors. It includes almost every person who's in the cabinet of President Biden. And it does have one place in here. I love to read it. It says, I like to look at it. A faith representative and Lord knows, I hope that's me. But they want a faith representative to be on this board of directors to deal with this situation.
 But because of this and talking with the congressperson, it gives me great delight to sing again with the Negro National Anthem. And we hear these words, let lift every voice and sing. Let them ring with the harmony of liberty. Let our rejoicing rise high as the listening sky. Let it resound loud as a rolling sea.
 Sing a song full of the faith that the dark past has taught us. Sing a song full of the hope that the present has brought us, facing the rising sun of our new day begun.
 Let us march on to victory as one. I like reading these words and hearing these words, and it gives me great confidence talking to people like Congressman Davis, Congressman Schankowski, Congressman Newman, and others who are saying, Reverend Dodson, keep the faith and work what you're doing there in Rockford. And that we will do. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Thank you.
 Leaving town, Macamara, the other person, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Trust, trust, trust, Moses told Pharaoh
 to let my peoples go. He took the blood of the lamb. Those who believed in the Lord, the blood of the lamb protected them. Jesus Christ was, got the hell beat out of him and he died for our sins. And he, one of his words is saying, he that believeth in me shall have everlasting life. Trust, trust, trust. Where is our trust here? I look, I look at the
 at what happened in our standard scan. Our country let not only the government down, but they let down the women and children of our standard scan. Let's go and talk about Rockford.
 Trust, trust, trust. This past Thursday, Rockford Housing Authority, after 20 organizations, pardon the $2.3 million that they're getting, two of the organizations was African American. One was 100 Strong, and the other was Renewal Turning Point Program. Trust, trust, trust. I want to say to Chief Collard, I sent out –
 I condone, not condone us, but we are behind you 100%. I'm deeply upset with what happened to the officer, but also I knew the person that did it. The 19-year-old sister that got killed by her boyfriend, the 25-year-old sister that got killed by her boyfriend. We deal with domestic violence on a weekly basis.
 we deal with coming up this year next Tuesday Booker Washington Center is having a criminal record being spied last Friday working with Booker Washington Center we dealt with people
 who need your help with their rent or getting evicted and what have you. I'm going to turn to Community Action Agency Board. Looking forward to where that meeting is coming up. How can we work together? I'm also looking at the fact that we are going to have a meeting with, I still call it the Banner of Truth Church, where I first
 is looking at opening up a daycare center, a 24 hour laundromat. We wanna have a liaison. I talked with Deputy Chief, he's no longer here no more. Nine Collar Red have taken his place.
 with the fire department, the police department, the sheriff's department, having a liaison where they're there with us every day because a lot of people come to me and tell me what their concerns are and we need to work out our difference. I've been talking for years the deep resentment some of our teenagers and young people have towards the police department.
 We need to find a way to heal that. I am that key and that light in opening up the healing process, and we can do that at the Banner of Truth Church. I'm also looking forward to seeing who's on that list for the regrowth. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. I'll be back to finish up talking about regrowth next week. Thank you, sir.
 thank you uh our next public speaker this evening is mr kenneth dickens i stand before you not as a homegrown resident i have come here from upstate new york been in rockford for approximately eight years and i can honestly say i'm completely disappointed in the structure and how this city runs there is no personal jobs given there is a history of racism in this city that is appalling to me
 This is not just hearsay, this is through facts. So I'm a firm component of facts over opinions. And I know some people here, even under the presence of my voice, may say, well that's a matter of opinion. And I stand here to tell you that no, it's not. It is a matter of fact. So I will discuss facts with my three minutes. And my brief three minutes is entitled The Tale of Two Cities,
 Huge disparity of minorities in Rockford versus the white population in Rockford and it is appalling to me It has always been appalling to me. I came here as a Assistant pastor for eight years I also came here as a black business man that has still has the unique opportunity to bring two multi-million dollar businesses here The reason why I haven't is because I haven't seen any social change for the black community or the minorities here And that's why I refuse to bring it here at this time now with that being said
 Rockford Registrar's Choir, October 6, 2015. Rockford ranks second worst city in America for racial equality by Kevin Haas. My Stateline, October 28, 2019. Rockford named America's 11th most dangerous city. Rockford, Illinois, WTVO. The website 20247 Wall Street has ranked Rockford in the 11th.
 Place in this list of America's most dangerous cities. Do I blame the. The population no, I blame the inequities here, whether the minority communities are not receiving the proper funding to be self sufficient and there is no self sufficient or holistic approach to Rockford. It has never been here and it currently still does not exist.
 So I don't blame the population. I blame the lack of equity in those communities. The report also says Rockford's unemployment rate, 6.8%, is far above the state and national average of 3.9%. WREX, July 20th, 2021. Rockford ranked one of 2021's least educated cities by Wallet Home. Now this is in 2021.
 23 WIFR November 8th, 2019 study. Rockford ranks eighth worst city for African Americans to move to.
 So again, what I am saying is not my opinion as a black man in America. If I'm going to look at a city that I'm going to move to that's going to be vibrant for my future, my children, my wife, my kids. To put them into college, to build a business, to bring a business, whether it be multi-million or lower. I'm going to look at the education in that community. I'm going to look at the population in that community. I'm going to look at the job availability in that community.
 And I'm going to look at the incarceration rate in that community. Now, Rockford had $300,000 to advertise to people to come here. And I can guarantee you, black people are looking at these numbers as well. Thank you, Mr. Dickens. Our next public speaker this evening is Ms. Joan Sage.
 Thank you, Mayor and all the persons. I appreciate the time. Each of you should have a packet in front of you with information updating on Comcast's recent activity. One of the things that I'm really excited about, and I think you all will be once it happens, is the Cornerstone Global Trade Park.
 Comcast is ready to build to that development once the businesses are ready for that. In 2019, we put together the costs on it and it was $248,000 that we were going to invest then. As soon as it is ready to go, we will invest that.
 Most of you are aware of Internet Essentials, our program for low-income families. We have extended the free 60 days of service for anyone who is a new Internet Essentials customer. For anyone who has children in the Rockford School District, once that 60 days is over, the school district will pick up the $9.95 a month.
 We now have lift zones, which are places where people can go safe, safely to access the internet. Some homes, even with the $9.95 price or free, may not be conducive to having internet in their home.
 So folks can go to the Boys and Girls Club, the YMCAs, Booker Washington, and the new center, the new Spark Center where the old library was on North Rockton. And we will have in October another announcement of something else coming to the area, so we're excited about that.
 We do have also an extension Pell Grants for anyone who is going to Rock Valley College or Rockford University. If they have a Pell Grant they can also get this $9.95 price.
 In your packet, you do have information about what is available to businesses. And from the mom and pop to the very large corporations that want to do connections between their plants, that is all available. If there are areas in town where you feel that there needs to be more development, please do reach out. You each have my business card.
 My cell phone is on that. You're welcome to call me anytime. If I don't answer, please leave a message. I will get back to you. Thank you so much for your time and have a good rest of the evening. We appreciate all you do. Thank you. Next, we will move to new committee reports. I don't believe we have a planning and development committee report. So we'll move to code and regulation committee. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for an auto sales lot in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 1303 South Main Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And item two, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial for A, a zoning map amendment from a C1 limited office zoning district to C2 limited commercial zoning district. And item B, a special use permit for a tire repair and sales in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 2315 South Main Street. Thank you, Alderman Rose. So we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items?
 saying no to alderman Prutty. I just want to say about item number two. It always concerns me or does concern me that when we deny a minority business, um,
 I know I had a chance to drive over to the area. I'm saddened that this isn't happening. I've read the information regarding why that it's not happening, and I've heard the appeals of the people who said no, but I really wish there was something that we could do to assist this minority business. Alderman Trina.
 I have not sat here very long in this seat. However, this is probably the toughest decision that I've had to make sitting here. When I originally met with the owners of this business, I wanted to support it. What I did not anticipate was that zoning was going to deny it. And once that happened, it made me have to ask many more questions than I asked initially, which initially again had my support.
 I had to take in consideration all of the reasons that Zoni listed. I also had to take into consideration that while there were residents that did want it, there were also residents that contacted me that did not. Additionally, there were safety fears and also it's difficult for me to want to approve
 changing that business to a C2 because it makes that business vulnerable to unfortunately things like tobacco shops and things that you put in communities of color that destroy them and I just can't see that happen so that's why I'm making the decision to sustain the denial of the garage thank you is there any other discussion from council so we have two items before us clerk could you please call the roll turkey on both on both items
 Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Alderman Frost. So on number two, voting aye is actually voting to deny the zoning map amendment, correct? That's my understanding. Okay, my vote would be aye on both. Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones,
 So if you vote yes, that's a positive for item one. If you vote yes on number two, that is sustaining the denial. So that would be a no vote. So if you want number two to go through, you would vote no on number two. Okay, I want to go yes and no. Yes on one, no on two. No on two. Sorry, just for clarity, Alderman Quinones, you're voting no on both one and two.
 no i'm voting yes on one okay to approve and uh i want to prove the second one so you're gonna vote yes on one and no on two which is an approval thank you sorry thank you alderman meeks aye on one and i'm going to vote i'm going to vote no on two mcneely bonnie alderman durkee thank you sir um
 I'm glad Kevin Alderman Frost knows how to read. I am thanking him for the clarification. I was good at science but not at reading. So I will... We hope you were good at science. So does a lot of pregnant women. I need some help. Maybe some red letters or big bold things. I am voting to affirm the denial on two. So I'm voting aye on two. So I would change my vote.
 So no on one, aye on two. Thank you. Thanks for the clarification. Item number one is 13 ayes, one no. Item number two is 10 ayes, four noes. Thank you. Next, we will go to finance and personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 number one the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of eight million two hundred and seventeen thousand eighty two dollars and ninety three cents as approved the finance personnel meeting held on september 13 2021. number two the committee recommends approval of an agreement between the city of rockford and comed for an additional overhead poll relocation along north main street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of an agreement between the city of rockford
 And combat for utility pull relocations along Buckby Creek, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request for 3012 School Street. Staff recommends reducing the fine from 1,000 to zero. The owner of the property abated all outstanding violations by voluntarily demolishing the house in 2017.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request for 414 Willard Avenue. Staff recommends reducing the fine also from $1,600 to zero. The property owner voluntarily demolished the property and debated all violations outside of the code hearing process. Number six is the approval of the Head Start Collaborative Agreement Amendment with Trinity Day Care.
 The Trina Daycare will also be providing 16 early Head Start slots at $41.50 per day for 253 days for a total of $167,992 and also 20 Head Start slots at $6.04 a day for a total of $30,563. Funds are provided by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Head Start, and the US Department of Education. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I believe that's it, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Alderman, we have six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple of clarifications. I remember last week there was some discussion on number four and five about how the city would recover any administration costs if we put this back to zero, and I would be interested to find out if we are going to get our costs covered there. And the other question is on number six.
 Can someone just explain the difference between $6.04 a slot and $41.50? I mean, I know the math, but what's the $41.50 give and what does the $6 give?
 Okay, so first you have a question on items four and five and I'll turn that over to director Meyer Then I'll go to question on six and then I'll go to director parking. Thank you. Thank you Alderman Beach. So in this case The fine reduction request is to go from $1,000 and then $1,600 all the way down to zero So there would be no recover of any administrative costs for this property That would be staff time and the like so there would be no no recovery for that. I
 Is there a cost? Do we know of a cost that we're abating then? Director Meyer, was there any associated costs? There's no hard, on this property there are no out-of-pocket costs. This is a fine that was assessed against both properties for failure to have the property under compliance. Okay, thank you. So the cost would be, I guess, soft cost in that it was our staff time prosecuting the case and our staff time inspecting and following up on the matter. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you in the next question and we'll go to director Park him and I believe that was regarding the difference between $6.04 to $41.50. Is that right? Yes, sir. Thank you
 Thank you for your question, Alderman Beach. The $6.04 per day cost for a Head Start slot is actually determined by the office of Head Start. So the city and our local Head Start office, we didn't determine that cost. That's actually determined to us by the federal government. But again, that is the per child cost reimbursement rate for our regular Head Start.
 partners, whereas that $41.50 per day is the cost, again, established by the Office of Head Start for our local community in terms of what can be reimbursed in the early Head Start Child Care Partnership Program. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Is there any additional discussion on the six items that are before you alderman Durkee? Thank you. Just one comment and items three and four. Well, I'd be supportive. I think it also Raises the issue again Actually, it's two and three that reading thing again on the relocation of the utility poles just to this comes up and I really would like to see us
 Take some serious effort and and start burying these lines when we have a chance either through an attachment to the electrical bill or something. But these are good beautification opportunities as well as protecting residents from down power lines and storms. So, you know, it's just another opportunity, I think.
 Another example where maybe we should get a little more serious and looking at that. So thank you sir. Great point. Thank you
 Any further discussion on the six items that are before you alderman fraud? I would just ask mr Saunders to clarify those those two comment. I thought one of them was the neighborhood over Off of North Main that were actually that they were were they gonna get buried They were as I thought yep Both of these projects that gonna be buried or just just the North so just the North Main the Buckbee Creek would just be relocated Out of the drainage way. Thank you. Is there further discussion on the six items before you clerk? Could you please call the roll? turkey
 Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Aye. And 1, 2, no on 4. That was a no on 4 and 5. There's no on. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Items 1, 2, 3, 14 ayes. Item number 4, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 5 and 6, 14 ayes.
 Thank you. Next up we have officers reports. Are there any reports alderman Hoffman? Thank you mayor Well, it seems that tonight we are going to be on TV Because of digging deeper and William god bless him has been in contact with me multiple times And I wanted to make sure he got the best information possible so I have been working with a HUD consultant and I want you all to know that
 that one of the issues was the limitations of City Council, and the HUD consultant provided to me the Illinois Statutes Chapter 310 that specifically lays out what City Council can do and cannot do, and it is limited to approval and denial of nominations by the mayor. The next issue was the ability of a public official to be on RHA,
 That you will also find under the Housing Authorities Act 310, and it is on page 4, giving public officials definite ability to be on the housing board. The one thing it says is that any public official must actually be paid as a public official. The term public officer used required to be filled by the vote,
 by the vote of electors and for which provision is made by law for the payment of an annual compensation from public funds. So it very specifically lays out that there was no problem with me being on the board and the Illinois law supersedes HUD.
 The next thing I want to say is that one of the changes that is coming about is that RHA is now going to privatize human resources so that there's no questions in the future. There will be an outside source making all decisions concerning terminations.
 And the next thing is I wanted to make everyone know, let everyone know that Laura has in the past asked to come before this Board. However, our RHA Board has decided because this is a hostile environment at this time that if you wish to learn any more about RHA, please keep your appointment with her or make one. She has a lot of interesting things to say. So thank you. Thanks. Next, I believe Alderman Mogelman.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to give a... Yesterday we had an excellent Jackson Oaks meeting, or Jackson Oaks block party. It was so great. My two little girls were playing and playing and playing on the playground equipment. And we left and got home at about 5.30. Then they just, like, exploded with tiredness because they had such great fun there. But big thanks to Barb Chidley, our Connect Rockford...
 uh and the work she does with connect rockford and then christina raver and christabel manzano as we try to build back some of our neighborhoods i think that's the key to do it is engaging the neighborhoods with our rock house officer corey magnuson there through these parties and events where neighbors can connect with each other so oh and alderman wilkins was there too so she uh that was just wonderful all around and uh just wanted to say that so good stuff in jackson oaks thank you mayor
 Thank you. Next is Alderman McNeely, then Meeks, then Quinones. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to share with the Council a letter, and I really don't want to quote, get into a tit for tat regarding RHA, and I'm certainly not an attorney, but I do have a copy of a letter addressed to Karen Hoffman, Chairwoman, and the subject is conflict of interest.
 The Illinois State Office of Public Housing has become aware that while serving as a chairwoman of the Rockford Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, you are concurrently serving as an alderman for the 8th Ward of the City of Rockford, Winnebago County, Illinois. This is a violation of the annual contribution contract since you were elected to the Office of Aldermen while you were a member of the Rockford Housing Authority Board of Commissioners
 Section 19A1, conflicts of interest of the annual contribution contract 53012, states that there shall be no arrangement with a public official who has an interest, direct or indirect, in any public housing authority project.
 At the time of your election and prior to taking office as an alderman, a formal disclosure of your election should have been made to HUD's, Illinois State Office of Public Housing. And a waiver to Section 19 of the ACC should have been requested if it was your expectation to serve in both roles.
 The Region 5 Office of General Counsel reviewed an opinion provided by the Council for the Rockford Housing Authority regarding the conflict of interest. The opinion prepared by the RHA Council did not address the issue of potential conflicts of interest in your role as an elected public official in the City of Rockford and the interests of Rockford Housing Authority.
 Further, the opinion confirmed that upon your election as Alderman, no request to Section 19 of the ACC was requested by the RHA, nor was there any intent to request one. Our office has reviewed the RHA Board of Commissioners' minutes and resolutions enacted and ratified during physical program years 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021.
 The following resolution actions were identified as conflicts of interest and or potential conflicts since you voted affirmatively on them. The resolution related to redevelopment of Brewington and Fairgrounds communities, including deferral of actions, procurement of contractors, and issues which impact the schedule of redevelopment plans or work.
 Resolution related to deferral of approval of the IGA between the City of Rockford and the RHA for additional police services. Approval of PHA plans and strategic plans for the agency. The contents of the specific plans were not evaluated because the inclusions or exclusions of activities may be subject to conflict of interest.
 Actions related to the disposition of the RHA scatter site properties for a hospital and roadway improvements. Approval of leases and encumbrances on the RHA properties which may serve non-RHA customers. Intergovernmental agreements with the City of Rockford and Winnebago County. HUD recognizes that some of these actions are beneficial for the RHA.
 However, there are largely actions involving public and private land use decisions, which may or may not coincide with the comprehensive plans, goals, and objectives of the City of Rockford for redevelopment activity and the oversight of housing. Currently the RHA is also prop- also purposes- currently the RHA is also exploring
 the award of project-based vouchers and scatter site properties acquired for purposes of expanding assisted housing in the City of Rockford. In these cases, the interests of the City of Rockford Housing and Community Development Initiatives may not necessarily be aligned with or directly conflict with the interests of the RHA. And it's not
 and its, sorry, and its clients. More importantly, the RHA operates the low rent public housing program under Section 9, as well as the housing choice voucher program under Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937. In addition to a number of special purpose voucher programs throughout the City of Rockford, in which you are an elected public official,
 Many of the aforementioned programs, projects, and initiatives are operated within the jurisdiction that you represent, the City's 8th Ward. This conflict of interest may be resolved and our office cannot approve requests for a waiver of Section 19 of the ACC after the fact. Additionally, HUD Headquarters
 generally does not approve waiver appeals after the fact, particularly when it is not obvious what the basis of a request for a waiver would be or would not have been, even if there had been a timely request. And then I have, that was an official letter from HUD, and now I have a statement from someone that was on the board. I'm not going to read this because, again, I'm not an attorney and I'm not sitting here
 to conduct court with Alderman Hoffman or anyone else here tonight. Thank you very much. Okay, thanks. Next, Alderman Meeks. All right, well, I'm going to change the tone a little bit and get back to what we normally do for officers' reports and thank Public Works.
 And I'm dead serious about this because they worked magic and they made some residents in the 12th ward extremely happy. It's a road that they've been patching for years now over and over, and they found a long term maintenance plan thanks to.
 the Public Works Street Division. And so I thank them so much. I thank you Kyle for helping coordinate and everything that you did to make that happen. It's been five months of conversations back and forth about this topic, so I appreciate you very much. I also want to thank the City of Rockford Neighborhood Stabilization Manager, Jessica Schaffer and Amanda Daniels, Rockford Police Assistant Deputy Chief Joel Givens,
 And my community service officer, Brandon Burke, along with the Rockford Park district and screw city Co op who came to my recent town hall on Thursday. It was decently attended. We talked about.
 Some of the issues that are playing out with the Jet Foods grocery store. We discussed crime stats in the area. We discussed slum lords and renters and homeowners who aren't taking pride in their homes and in the neighborhood.
 So we discussed fall cleanups and reporting issues to the Park District. It was a lot of topics that were covered. It's on my Facebook page. So if you want to view the town hall and you live in the 12th Ward or wherever because Alderman Bill Rose was also in attendance, thank you so much for helping with questions that I wasn't quite prepared to answer sometimes.
 and so yeah I'm just really appreciative of everyone on the city staff that came through to make that successful and I look forward to doing it again thank you next up alderman Quinones yes thank you your honor I want to thank mayor Tom McNamara for giving a Hispanic Chamber of Commerce the proclamation at the ribbon-cutting at the new office last Thursday and also want to thank all the men Karen Huffman for attending
 Thank you guys very much. Thank you. Alderman. Can you next alderman rose? And I just wanted to, I had two things. One is I had a chance to tag team with Gina alderman Meeks at our community meeting. And it was one of the better attended community meetings I've seen in my stature as a alderman. And it,
 Just says a lot about the work that you put into that meeting, but it also says a lot about the residents and it was cool to see my old house across the street from Beth Eden. But just a really great opportunity to. To interact with citizens, and it was a great time, but I did want to touch.
 Real quickly on the land bank and I know there's probably gonna be an update but man You know when you see what the land bank is doing for the citizens of Rockford, especially the west side some of the homes that They've just turned around. I mean I had a house on Winnebago. That was the like movie esque house of the Wicked Witch, you know in the neighborhood and they
 We got it out to a developer, the developer turned it around. It went from being sold for $12,000 to being sold for $130,000 later on. I can't say enough about that program. There were like four or five of them in my ward. 1922 Ridge, 1522 Winnebago, 1910 Grant, 3014 Custer. I mean, these are homes that have sat for years.
 just nothing happening to them stuck in that kind of Situation where I call them zombie property properties the ability of the land bank To take these properties to get them into private development and to you know get full Homeownership and them is just incredible. So I just wanted to put that out there for residents that are
 The city is taking an approach with our one in the land bank on changing those properties, and I just have to give them kudos on that. Yeah, thank you. Alderman Rose.
 Region one has done an extraordinary job not just with the land bank, but also with the trustee program Really taking these blighted properties and putting them into productive use and I know everyone got the email take a look at I'm also working on getting the list of all the places that were impacted. I know you just saw the Select few but I'm getting you the list of all
 All those that were sold Then those at the percentage of those that were sold in the city of Rockford and also the corresponding dollar values to those it's pretty Remarkable, I don't they should have final reports. I think it's at the end of October sometime in October For this most recent year, but they've just done a phenomenal job Alderman to work. Thank you mayor. I would like to thank everyone's full of thanks tonight. That's a good to see I
 your attention and also Chief Reds and Lieutenant Randy Burke. The Faust Hotel outside of the Faust has been giving me fits for quite a while, and it's been an ongoing, ongoing situation.
 We, yeah, finally did some arrests, and the police department is taking it very seriously, and we all appreciate that, and we appreciate the work they're doing, and especially after the circumstance that happened with that shooting at them. So we appreciate all your work, and thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Durkee, and then...
 thank you your honor just a little bit of a somber note just a a reminder of the peril that those who stand watch over us face and respect to the Police officer that was shot over the weekend. I don't know all the details I don't think I need to but it's just a reminder of what the folks in uniform do and what they contend with
 on a nightly basis every week we have two that watch over us here and so just a undying appreciation for what they do thank you alderman wilkins
 thank you um I just wanted to extend a thank you to former alderman shirely and uh Brett from animal services for meeting with uh alderman punty and meeks and myself last week they provided great information for us to get back to our residents and Solutions so I was very happy about that so thank you guys thank you alderman prunty then alderman Hoffman alderman prunty
 I just wanted to piggyback off our alderman, Logerman. We, too, had a block party. The Jefferson Ridge community had a block party on Saturday. It was really nice.
 I really enjoyed talking to the residents and getting feedback and talking with the county folks as well as the city folks. In that particular community, it's a combination of things. Just wanted to thank one of the event organizers who kept me in contact, and that's Mary Nutz.
 And also wanted to thank Officer Williams for providing the tables and chairs. So it was a very comfortable environment. It was a very beautiful day. And it looks like everybody was having a good time. So just wanted to bring that up. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. ALDERMAN HOFFMAN. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to restate again that the Housing Authority Act of Illinois supersedes HUD.
 and that I had two attorneys that have agreed with that stance, but I decided not to pursue the issues and to step down, and that's when I gave notice, even though the Illinois Housing Authority Act does supersede anything that HUD put in that letter. So thank you. Thanks. Any other reports I'm missing? No? Okay. We're going to move right along.
 uh we're moving to unfinished business we have no items under planning and development committee we do under code and regulation committee alderman rose
 Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a freestanding sign for a non-residential use in a residential district from 48 square feet to 57.5 square feet along North Alpine Road in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 4405 Highcrest Road.
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Staff is actually asking if aldermen would be willing. Last council, you did the two aldermen layover rule. We are very close to having all two or three parties that are part of this in agreement. So we're asking if someone would make a motion to lay this item over just to the next council meeting. We have a motion by Alderman Bonney. Aye.
 In a second. Is there any discussion all those in favor of laying over the one item before you? Say aye aye those opposed Okay, I don't been laid over to our next meeting. There is nothing under if there needs to be a special for them, we would do it next week, but My understanding alderman beaches were incredibly close where that was not the case two weeks ago when it was laid over and
 Next up, we have motions and resolutions. There is one item under planning and development. Committee Alderman Meese. Thank you so much, Your Honor. Under planning and development, item number one, the committee recommends approval of the ratification of membership into the Northern Illinois Council of Governments, the NORTHCOG. Thank you. There's one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. You know, I think that...
 This Northern Illinois Council of Governments, I think it's not exactly a bad idea. However, I come from a train of thought that believes that we might be doing something right now, but long term wise it might be something to reconsider. And for that reason, I'm going to be voting no on this tonight.
 i do want to just tell the residents why i'm voting no on it and this has nothing to do with politics or uh the work that r1 does it i think they do a fantastic job i think mike dunn has done a great job uh in putting this together uh but
 One of the things that I kind of look at is the idea of what regionalism is and how regionalism impacts different groups. When you look at Chicago and you look at the idea of regionalism, you know, sometimes people say, well, it's great. You know, regionalism is awesome for Chicago. It helps, you know, the suburbs out quite a bit. And I look at it from a perspective of Chicago doesn't really need the suburbs. Right.
 The suburbs need Chicago, right? And I look at it the same way in this perspective is that. You know, as as much as regionalism is great for South Beloit and rocked in and Roscoe and the Chesney park and Cherry Valley and all these surrounding. Uh, places, you know, it's great, but at the end of the day.
 Rockford doesn't need to rely on those communities. They need to rely on us and That's why as a resident and a representative of the city of Rockford. I just think that sometimes we need to kind of take a perspective of you know Where our power is as a community and where we are as a community and so I just think that Rockford is
 as a regional leader should be the regional speaker. And that's why I'm glad that in this case for the COG, that the mayor's taken on that role as the person in charge. But just my qualm with the whole council of government is that, you know, Rockford doesn't need regionalism. Regionalism needs Rockford and,
 As a resident of the 9th Ward, I really think that we should be leading that charge and not an outside group or organization. So thank you very much. Any other discussion on the item before us clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey Logamon, Toomer, Frost, Torina, Frente, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely,
 Bonnie. Eight ayes, five noes, one abstain. Excellent, thank you. Next we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Rose.
 Under item one, the committee recommends approval of the 2021 Edgebrook Health and Wellness Fair. This event is scheduled for Saturday, October 9th from 10 to 2 p.m. at 1639 North Alpine Road. Item two, the committee recommends approval of a resolution for authority to intervene on the 2020 property tax appeal case for Hampton Mercury Investment Company located at 6905 East State Street and 6943 East State Street.
 Thank you. We have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logaman. Toomer. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney.
 14 ayes. Excellent, thank you. Next we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, there are 13 items, so maybe Mayor- Do you want a glass of water? Maybe a stretching break after six. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the City Yards Fire Panel Notification System Expansion to Kelso Burnett of rock for the amount of $43,800, the funding source is the property fund operating budget.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the Buckbee Street roof replacement to McDermott roofing of rock for the amount of $106,828. The funding source is the property fund operating budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for 325 South Madison Street roof replacement to H.C. Anderson roofing of rock in the amount of $83,885. The funding source is the East River TIF.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for Rockford ADA repairs package number three to Miranda Concrete of Rockford. In the amount of $45,344.25, the contract duration is through September 30. The funding source is sales tax. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract excavator and trailer to Westside Tractor Sales of Rockford.
 In the amount of $65,892.34 for the mini excavator and $23,171.36 for the trailer. The funding source is a lease fund 2021 water division operating budget. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for human services vehicles to Coons GMC Cadillac.
 Chrysler Jeep Dodge of Belvedere in the amount of $88,362 for three 2021 Jeep Compass vehicles. The funding source is grant funding. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the award of the non-competitive contract
 For the cobus pipe puller 400 series to cobus of Galesburg, Michigan. In the amount of $70,245, which includes all attachments and training, the funding sources, the water fund operating budget. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of change order for property cleanups to slave on sons builders.
 The original amount was $61,668. The changeover amount is $48,000 for a total amount of $109,668. The funding sources, the construction services division operating budget.
 Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the resolution to take proposals for the municipal internet service provider, the funding sources, the broadband utility revenues. Number ten, is an award of engineering agreement for the downtown streetscape improvements
 HR Green of McHenry, the amount of $29,805.28. The project is estimated to run from the fall of 2021 to spring of 2022. The funding source is sales tax. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the American Rescue Plan implementation phase one. Number 12, the committee recommends approval of the application award acceptance and commitment of local funds to the 2021 Department of Commerce Economic Opportunity Tourism Attractions Grant Program.
 For exterior facade improvements to the core down performing arts center. The total project cost estimated to be $1,090,600.
 50% of which is proposed to come from the tourism attractions grant funds with the estimated remainder of $545,316 to come from the redevelopment fund. Number 13 is the award of bid for group 20 demolitions to Northern Illinois Service of Rockford in the amount of $70,086 for the demolition of various properties in the city of Rockford. The contract duration is upon completion of the demolition program.
 the funding sources the illinois housing development authority strong communities program i placed these 13 items before you excellent thank you there's 13 items before you is there any discussion on those 13 items clerk will you please call the roll turkey logeman toonberg frost tarina prenti wilkins hoffman rose beach quinones meeks mcneely bonnie
 item 1 14 eyes items 2 and 3 13 eyes 1 no items 4 through 10 14 eyes item 11 12 and 13 13 eyes 1 no thanks next we'll move to new business there's nothing under planning development we'll go to go to code and regulation committee alderman rose all right under item 1 an ordinance approving the special use permit for an auto sales lot in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 1303 south main street
 Item 2 in ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a freestanding sign for non-resident She'll use in a residential district from 48 square feet. Oh that one was already Laid over so do I have to read that which one are you reading to know it's laid over? Okay, I
 3 is an ordinance approving a variation for a driveway addition. In the front yards along road and Ribery court and an R1 single family. Residential zoning district at 7450 road. Which I have to read in the findings of fact.
 It says I move to reverse the findings of fact to reflect approval of a variation for a driveway addition in the front yards along Rybrook Road and Rybrook Court in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 7450 Rybrook Road. The findings of fact can read as follow. Findings of fact for approval of a variation for a driveway addition in the front yards along Rybrook Road.
 In Ribera court in an R1 single family residential zoning district located at 7450 road approval. This variation is based upon the following findings. 1, because of the particular physical surroundings shape or topographical conditions of the specific property involved. A particular hardship to the owner would result as distinguished from a mirror inconvenience. If the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out.
 2. The conditions upon which a petition for this variation is based are unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not applicable generally to other property within the same zoning classification. 3. The purpose of this variation is not based exclusively upon a desire to increase the value or income potential of the property.
 For the alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this ordinance and has not been created by any persons presently having an interest in the property or by any predecessor in title.
 5, the granting of this variation will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located. 6, the proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of the public streets.
 or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or impair the property values within the neighborhood. Seven, the proposed variation does comply with the spirit and intent of restrictions imposed by this ordinance. Excellent. So we have two items before you. One of them, item three, has had a motion to amend. Is there a second? We have a second. So we'll take just a...
 item or just a motion that alderman rose brought forward for rye brook to amend that so we have a motion we have a second answer i need discussion on just that amendment alderman prunty he said that there were particular hardships can we hear more about that or is that not in the play
 Is that inappropriate right now? No, you can ask any question you'd like. Which staff would like to take the question about the particular hardships that were mentioned in the motion to amend? I heard the word hardships a few times in the seven things that he read.
 What are some of the hardships that they are encountering? What? So, all the background. So under the, for the approval of variations, there's a state statute that talks about variations needing to have a hardship. And in essence, identifying that there's a distinction in this property.
 from other properties generally that are located within the City of Rockford for compliance with the ordinance. In this particular instance, the hardship had been identified as this being a corner lot, recognizing the positioning of the structure faces the other street in the other adjoining properties. That is also their side or rear yard. So that was the general statements related to the overall hardship.
 Any other discussion? Alderman Bonney? Could I ask the amendment be re-read? I'll read it. Because of the particular physical surrounding shape or topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result as distinguished from the mere inconvenience if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out. That was item one.
 Item 2, the conditions upon which a petition for this variation is based are unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not applicable generally to other property within the same zoning classification. The purpose of this variation is not based exclusively upon a desire to increase the value or income potential of the property.
 4. The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this ordinance and has not been created by any persons presently having an interest in the property or by any predecessor entitled. Item 5. The granting of this variation will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located.
 Number six, the proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of the public streets or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or impair the property values within the neighborhood. It's incredibly well written by an attorney. laughter
 So nothing in there changes is amending anything inherent in the proposal. It's all justification. My understanding. Correct. Okay. Okay.
 I believe this is an item that came up last week at Council. Correct. Alderman Frost supported it. We went through the discussion about how you would have two different drives because it's on that corner lot, and one would face another person's home, which typically is not allowed. This is just simply stating in a very complex legalese manner, thank you, Director Myers and staff, that this is okay to do, and we're changing the fact, finance effect.
 Director Mack. Yeah, so the finding of facts are required because it came out of the ZBA as a denial. So in order to justify passing the ordinance that was already approved in a previous meeting, we have to then adopt findings of fact to support it. This is sort of an administrative act to support the ordinance being approved. Thank you. Any further questions?
 Okay, so we have a motion on the floor for item three then second and we've had some discussion on it So we'll take a vote just simply on the motion that alderman row is presented all those in favor of the motion say aye aye Those opposed of that motion. Okay. So now we have two items before us items one and item three Is there any further discussion on these items alderman frost? Thank you I just not to beat a dead horse, but um, this is a home in my ward and it is a a
 I believe a ranch home that's the left hand side of their driveway would be facing a cul-de-sac. So it's a straight driveway in off of Ryebrook Road and what happened was the folks were new to Rockford, they hired a contractor that did not know because it had two. It was considered to have two front yards because it's a corner home and the contractor
 And adding on to the drive, it was realized then that a permit was needed. So these folks have had a, one of the hardships is they've had a gravel driveway for months now. And there are no, if the driveway is approved, there's no resident, no other neighbors came forward. There's two homes in the cul-de-sac that will not be affected.
 By the addition of a basically like a third car stall on the left side of their property. So I'm in support of it. The homeowner was here last week, or maybe it was two weeks ago, or it was last week. And it just didn't make the agendas last week when we brought this item up. So I would ask.
 Everyone to support this driveway edition is especially due to the hardship from the fact that their driveway has already been torn up Thank you. Thank you. So we have two items before you items one and three. Is there any further discussion on those alderman Bonnie? so just again to beat the dead horse so the in this particular situation the rationale is that a
 although a side yard is considered a front yard when you're on a corner lot that this side yard is immediately across from a another side yard so it's not like side yard to front yard was that that was part of the part of the discussion
 Committee sorry across the street from From the side yard, which would be the interest of the cul-de-sac would be another home. It would be on Rybrook Road In the same direction as this home, correct? so I voted against this in committee, but having been this weekend to a corner and
 lot in my ward that actually has three side yards because it's on the intersection of Arnold and Newberg and also fronts on it actually fronts on another street I have a new appreciation for the problems of corner lots so I will support it any further discussion on items one or three clerk please call the roll Durkee Go on one Bogman
 Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Chusnado. Bonney. Aye. Alderman Hoffman. Item number one, 13 ayes, one no. Item number three, 14 ayes.
 Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving an agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for additional overhead.
 Pole relocations along North Main Street for the Edson Street relocation. Number two is an ordinance approving an agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for utility pole relocations along Buckby Creek. And number three is an ordinance approving the Head Start Collaborative Agreement Amendment with Trinity Daycare to provide additional 20 Head Start slots at $6.04 for a total of $30,563.
 They will also be providing 16 early Head Start slots at $41.50 per day for a total of $167,992. The funds are provided by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Head Start, and the U.S. Department of Education. I place those two matters before you. Thank you. So we have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Mayor, we need a motion to suspend Rule 9 on Number 3, please. Thank you.
 I'm sorry. Is there a motion to suspend rule 9 for item 3? Alderman Rose had the motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? We'll just take that first. Is there any discussion on suspending rule 9 for item 3? All those in favor of that motion to suspend rule 9 say aye.
 Those who are opposed, same sign. Okay, so we can suspend Rule 9. Is there any discussion on the three items, which now includes the amended Item 3? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Wanting to know, Trinity Daycare, Inc., is there a reason why we're looking at just one daycare facility? Director Parham. Yes.
 Thank you, Alderman McNeely. So with this particular issue, as you may recall, we came to council before asking for permission to submit a waiver to the office of Head Start. Because there was a new requirement on Head Start programs across the country to increase the number of children enrolled in full day programs. I indicated at that time to council that RPS let us know that they were unable to accommodate our request for additional full day slots.
 At that point, we started inquiring of our early head start child care partners who had capacity to actually establish full day head start classrooms at their facilities. And Trinity Daycare was one of our existing early head start child care partners that indicated they had capacity to do so. So that is why we proceeded with them to help us get closer to our requirement,
 The Office of Head Start wants us to be at 45% of our slots. This will help us get to 40% of our slots being at full day services. So essentially, we reached out to all our existing partners and this was the one that worked out for us to be able to move most quickly on getting these full day spots established. So is that unusual for a city this size to only have one?
 to accommodate and still not completely meet the requirement of 45? I don't know for sure. I don't know for sure about that, but I do know that we, in some communities, we are unique in that we work with our public school system in terms of our collaborative classroom spots for traditional Head Start for three and four year olds, that is unique.
 about us. So when this mandate came down from the Office of Head Start for programs to expand their full-day offerings, we were restricted in terms of how we would do that because our full-day offerings were currently within RPS.
 It may not be so unique if in other programs they're not working with their public schools, so their Head Starts are private or they have other external capacity for the way that they expand. So it may not be unique, but I can't say that definitively. Do we know what will happen since we're not meeting the 45 requirement?
 Well, we did apply for the waiver, so that was essentially our permission to not meet 45%, but even though we moved forward with that application, we were also taking steps to try to get to as many full-day spots as possible. So this is one of those actions toward that end. So that will give us until what, next year? Potentially, yes. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on the items before you? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye.
 Logman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frente. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Fonny. 14 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed have a wonderful night.