Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for all who gather here. We pray your blessings upon us and we ask that you would guide by your wisdom our city council as they go forward to take care of the business of our city. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. To the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Clerk, can you please call the roll? . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 Ezekiel chapter 9, 24 verse 9. Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Woe to the bloody city! I will even make the power for fire great. Thus saith the Lord God, Woe unto the bloody city! You know, sitting here, listening to the committee thing just a few minutes ago, and I realized just how wicked Rockford is. Rockford is an evil city. I think what we had in Rockford
 was a de facto containment policy against black people economically, socially, and politically. All the white ladies in here, yeah, go from 7 to 15 year old child you got. Lock them in a room, contain them in a room for seven months. Seven months. Economically, don't give them no money. Socially, they can't have no contact with people. Politically, they don't have no power. They can't watch TV or mess around with electronic devices.
 seven months, contained them for seven months, male or female. They didn't tell me, let them out and tell me what's wrong. They'll be damaged psychologically, emotionally, and physically. Thank the Lord Jesus for his blood. Listen, fifty years of containment. I went through the Westside the other day. I said, Lord, they even created a ghetto. The Westside's becoming a ghetto. They took all the money out for fifty plus years and put a dime back. They over here, they're having a meeting tonight.
 about spending money downtown. They never got no money spent on the west side. And I saw the man on TV with Puri, Puri, whatever his name is. Doing something out there on Springfield. I'm talking about Green Street and L Street and Chestnut and West State and Andrew and Johnson. All that money y'all took out the west side and put nothing back. Contain your child for seven months and then tell me how good they gonna be. Fifty years. Yes.
 Rockford is a wicked, bloody, vicious, evil city. 50 years. 50 years. And y'all down here, y'all down here having meetings every week. I don't hear no discussion about helping the black people on the west side. Not none. Not none. 50 years of containment policy. They are the policy. They practice it and put it in practice. The whole west side is becoming a ghetto. You took all the money out and didn't put none back.
 And go tell me that's good? That's good? They built a police station over there. It didn't finish West State Street. Thank the Lord Jesus. Thank you, Reverend Shelby. Next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Isaiah, the 26th chapter, the third verse, the prophet says, Thou will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on God.
 What I want to speak about tonight, a message for people of all ages. Are you like most people today who hesitate to turn on the television or computer and view the news of the day, sense and feel bewilderment at the continual wave of young people, especially those of color, who continue to either kill or be killed by an individual who looks like them? If you're the average human being who is moved by such behavior, and care any time
 thing about the future of mankind. Then you should understand the urgent need we all have to take and act a role in reprogramming young adults. Reprogramming does not require one to be a psychiatrist, but instead is just the opposite. All it requires is for people
 to possess caring, compassion, and commitment hearts. Hearts that aspire to see life improve for everyone on earth, especially life under privilege, who seem to be stuck in the most unkind situation. As human beings, we all share an uncounted sense of belief that certain situations or experiences will never happen to us. That is until it does.
 That came at 2.11 a.m. in the morning, March 29, 2017, when he got a call from the police that his son had been found dead from a gunshot wound to the head. Shortly before he was standing outside behind the resident where he lived, simply smoking a black and mild cigar, how a 25-year-old kid who had never been a problem child, who at the time was a sophomore at the University of Illinois, and a door by countless people,
 of all ages and backgrounds could die in such a senseless way left him stunned unfortunately just as he once thought such a great experience could never happen to him or his family there are countless others throughout the world who for whatever reason have that same artificial sense of invisibility at least until it does happen to them and said they will take that
 to wake most people. If we ever realistically expect to turn the condition around for the better in America, people of all ages, ethnic backgrounds, socioeconomic backgrounds are going to have to step out of their realms of comfort, roll up their sleeves and dedicate time to showing young people of color. If there's a place for them in this world besides a jail, prison cell, or a specialized spot,
 intersection of the local cemetery. Economic opportunities are going to have to be created that include teenagers from disadvantaged urban neighborhoods and all of them a means to earn their own money instead of being engaged in criminal activity as a realistic way of survival. I'm glad you're here tonight.
 Ms. Sheila, who works in the legal department. Ashley, my wife's granddaughter. Mrs. Helen, my friend. Stephanie Matthews. Ms. Carrie Alpline, who works in the finance department. Mr. George Davis, my friend.
 And Mr. Todd, the mayor, deputy mayor, this for a long time. I'm going to get off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet Yusuf. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Bramley.
 Yes. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 29, verses 25 say, Fear peoples can hamper everything you try to do. In a strange form, it can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word.
 Over the weekend, President Trump disrespected the professional athletes who had recently showed their opposition to police brutality by taking a knee during the national anthem. In a broker term, Trump blamed the lower football ratings on the act of resistance and called for their immediate dismissal. I, too, have started going on my knees.
 and representing our athletes and the disrespect we're receiving in this country. What the President is involved in only is going to get worse. So what are we doing to bring Rockford together? I can tell you what we have been doing on the west side of the river. This weekend, we renewed the Turning Point program, which is fairground housing area, cleaning up the neighborhood and surrounding area. We had United Way there. The police showmobile was there. The fire truck was there. The library signed up over 15 people.
 individual was able to get library cars. Two people showed up that was running for office. There's one thing I want to talk about. A lot of people that run for office, you see them during election time, but you don't see them after the election. We need to see them before, after, and when the election is over with. Plus, we had a Kingdom Authority van that was there. We started out with 24 youth
 going around cleaning up. When we got on Underwood Street, the Hispanic lady came out of her house, gave us some water. The kids that was on Underwood Street came out and followed us and started helping clean up. When we got to School Street, we went in that area, cleaned up the barbershop area. The owners came out the barbershop, gave our kids water and pot
 Then we went to the east side of Fairgrounds. The kids was outside. They joined in. The parents joined in. By the time we got back to the community center, I had 67 kids and 15 adults that had joined in cleaning up. We filled up three dumpsters. We also had 15 bags that we left by the front door of the community center with branches and leaves in it for someone or the city to pick up for Monday.
 I also mentioned to the fact that the Alpine Bank sponsored us with the food. So we had over 100 sandwich sandwiches. We didn't have no hot dogs. Everybody always come in, different organizations come in throwing us hot dogs. We are sick and tired of hot dogs. We had nutritious sandwiches.
 We had sir way. I also want to get at the mayor because this is top priority. By the way, we do not have no one on the Community Action Agency Board that represents the minority community. I am calling out to the mayor that I want to be on that board and on our ACE board. Unless you walk a mile in our shoes, you do not know what we are going through, what we, what our needs are. Like the youth tell me, stop playing and put me on the board.
 Thank you. I need to be on that board so we can represent our people. And not be getting kibbles and bits. We want steak and potatoes, too. Thank you. Before I go, we want to join in here every month. And then when the winter cats come around, we need to be donating some shells and some salt so we can stop...
 We have one proclamation this evening for Hispanic Heritage Month, and Alderman Tuffy Quinones will be coming up. Wonderful.
 Whereas each year the President of the United States proclaims September 15th through October 15th to be Hispanic Heritage Month, and whereas the city of Rockford recognizes the contributions made by the persons of Latino descent in this area over the last 100 years and seeks to join with them in celebrating their culture and achievements, and whereas for the last 50 years Hispanic organizations have carried out their missions to foster progress of Latinos in Rockford in partnership with government, education, education,
 business, health, recreational, and cultural institutions. Most recently, uniting together under the umbrella of the Coalition of Latino Leaders. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby recognize and proclaim September 15th through October 15th, 2017, to be Hispanic Heritage Month. Tuffy, would you like to share a few words?
 I want to thank the Mayor on behalf of the Hispanic community here in the City of Rockford and the City Council for proclaiming September 15th to October 15th Hispanic Heritage Month. But to my left here I have a community activist and next to him I have a business owner in the City of Rockford and they like to say thank you. Okay. Thank you. No.
 Yeah, Hispanic Heritage Month is, as it was mentioned, September 15th through October 15th. And that's really in that month a vast majority of the Latin American countries have their Independence Day. So this is a good month to celebrate it. But more important here, more locally, there's...
 There's a lot of things happening, Trust Act, detention, you know, a lot of things that are challenging. And we're grateful as far as from the Coalition of Latino Leaders to be able to reach out to talk to the city council, to talk to the county board, to talk to the school board and other areas. I believe we have a very good relationship not only with the mayor, but I know we have an excellent relationship with the chief and some of the other department heads, including the sheriff and others from the county.
 And that means a lot. We do have access because I believe we bring credibility where we try to be part of the solution, and it's been going on for years. So with that, I just want to thank everyone this month. Kyrstilago? No, I'd like to say thank you for the support for the Ash community. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. We have called this a meeting.
 for two reasons. One is under motions and resolutions. We had a change in one of our appointments that we just recently approved. Some conditions there have changed, so we need to rescind that approval and we'll have a new name
 we already have a approval of the person we just need to get the proper documentation in and we'll have that in front of you next week and you'll actually have it here probably in the next day or two to make sure that you have enough time to reach out to them for the important position of being on the zba and liquor tobacco advisory board but first i i turned all the minstrel thank your honor as you said under motions and resolutions
 A motion to rescind the appointment of Mustafa Abdaal to the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board. Place that off the passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed say aye. Okay, motion passes. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. After that, I'll see if there's a motion to adjourn.
 One item. Another item. It's not to be voted on until October 18th. Very good. Thank you. We have a second to adjourn. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. All those opposed? All right. Have a good one.