Thank you. Also, I want to
 draw your attention to a document that you have on each of your desks for an appointment to the board of fire and police commissioners for sam schmitz if you have any additional information that you would like on mr schmitz please reach out to me i'll make sure that you get it and you should have all of his contact information as well so you can reach out to him in addition
 First up, we have plenty on development. Alderman Rose? Yeah, we're going to put up a Winnebago County Geographic Information System, the WINGIS Intergovernmental Agreement. The legal director will prepare those documents for the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the item before us? Alderman Hervey? Just one. With regard to the costs.
 The cost sharing. I didn't understand the new cost sharing structure, but I guess what my question is, how have WINGES costs increased over the life, not the life of the program, but over, say, a reasonable period, a five or six year period?
 um period and the reason i ask this is because we know what happened with animal services i just want to know what we're we're getting into because they drastically it seems like changed the cost share for the program director thomas
 Thank you, Mayor. The cost-sharing agreement, it wasn't too well defined in the original document, and it's probably one area we can work on cleaning up. But to answer your question about cost, I
 Our costs have actually been decreasing over time since the program was implemented. So that because more parties joined That the cost of technology is decreased There's less staff now at Wenge's and because there are more parties sharing that cost. Thank you Is there additional questions or discussion seeing none clerk? Will you please call the roll jerky? Logoman Toomer frost Herbie Irvins
 Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. The item passes. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. The development agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford City Market for indoor market utility relocation. Places up for passage. Is there a discussion on the item before us? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye.
 Frost, Herbie, Irvins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely. 13 ayes. Item passes. Next up, we under, or officers reports. Did anyone have any officers reports? No.
 alderman hervey just very quickly the um normally there would be a fifth ward meeting this thursday um i will not be able to make that so i think we're just gonna instead of trying to reschedule we're just gonna move to the october meeting which will have our annual um winter preparation and and safety so hope everybody can make it for that one thank you excellent alderman irving's
 So I just want to ask everybody to, if you can, pray for me and or not for me for this kickball event Saturday. It's looking like it's supposed to rain again. I'm going to be out there. I'm going to be out there. I'm going to put a tent up. We can play kickball under the tent.
 if you want um but yes the 29th 12 to 4 don schmidt or riverdale park i'll be there rain sleet or snow so i'm a good kicker thank you alderman uh alderman hoffman um just wanted everyone to know we're going to have our last meet and greet uh for rha
 This one is going to be held over at District 3, and we're actually inviting the whole neighborhood. So it will be the sheriff's candidates and basically the candidates for judges. And we invite all of you. I have invited my neighborhood. Anybody can come to this one. Wonderful. It's going to go past just inviting the Grove people. So anyone can come. Thank you. Alderman Timberg.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to thank everyone for the great event, the Fall for Rockford event. I apologize to the aldermen. It did happen in the third ward. But what a great event. I don't know. I've heard numbers in the thousands. It was put together really quick. I want to thank...
 RDA and their work and the sponsors and all the volunteers I know some of us here had volunteered down there, but what a great event for Rockford. I heard nothing but good I'm sure there's a few people out there that That may say different but for a majority. I think it was a great event. Thank you very much and
 And I won't get into traffic circles unless we want to stay here for another few hours. So I'll save everyone that topic for later. Thank you. Thank you. I would just add to that.
 That event was phenomenal. I also thought the Cyclone Second was a great event. Just two really unique new events to the City of Rockford and a lot of volunteers went into making both of those events a success. Alderman Thunberg. Cyclone Second, what word was that?
 fourth word alderman frost thank you uh last week was the only municipal league and uh once again I had the privilege to attend it and attend many good uh seminars and it was nice to see several aldermen that weren't in attendance and alderman Hervey and I attended the legal seminar which was
 In fact, there was a topic on solar farming, which is going to, I think, be coming to the Rockford area sooner than later. Maybe an expansion of that, but it was nice to see all the aldermen there. It's always nice to go and learn what other cities are doing and what best practices are. And it was great to see the mayor and
 Mr. Meyer also attended, not only attended the legal seminar, but Mr. Meyer had the privilege of being one of the speakers and panelists at a seminar on a legal event. So it was nice to see him put the time in to do that. So thank you, Mr. Meyer. I've never seen an audience at IML stand up and applaud someone. It was amazing. I heard there was an autograph session later, but I missed it. It was moving. Alderman McNeely, did you have your hand raised?
 I am Last last week we we have a new business on South main next to the old Hanna building It's called sisters and they had their grand opening. It's really really nice in there and they had Entertainment their musical entertainment there Mr. Hanson Hanson and
 They're looking to continue to do that, have later hours and have a musical entertainment there in the evening. This coming Sunday, I will be going to New Zion, I think it's called New Zion Baptist Church on Avon. They're having, which I never heard of before, but I find quite interesting, they're going to have a grand opening of a beauty shop.
 the church in the basement area and I went there this weekend to visit it. It's really nice The whole section of the basement of that church. They've redone made classroom areas and other Areas for different things and one being Beauty salon there. Look forward to seeing you. Thank you same here
 I just wanted to say I want to thank Mark Stockman and his team for putting in a lot of the work in our wards and in our plans. We have a lot of little construction projects in the ninth ward, Custer Avenue.
 Ridge Avenue with some new sidewalks going in and I've had a lot of people asking me when is this work gonna get done? Some of it should should be done this week weather permitting and some some of it probably you going into next week but I'm
 I'm really happy with the work that is going on so that we can add some some better sidewalks for our residents, especially for those who are confined to a wheelchair, so I Want to say thank you to our public works team for putting in a lot of work for that alderman dirty. Thank you your honor Um, I don't usually announce Fundraisers, but I I have one that an organization. I like working with and
 that's special to me. It's Rock House Kids. They are a ministry on 7th Street near Broadway, and basically they try to capture kids and promote their growth in a really positive way. They're having a fundraiser October 4th at 6 o'clock at the Radisson Hotel and Conference Center. So I'll remind you again next Monday, but I expect you guys to be there with your checkbook. They do great work. They're good people, so.
 And they capture kids in the best sense of the word, right? Yeah. Okay. Any other comments? Seeing none, all right. We'll move forward to planning and development, Alderman Rose. We'll push in forward the Metropolitan Planning Organization and PO Cooperative Agreement. Is there any discussion with the one item before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Brost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? McNeely? Shirelli? Aye. 13 ayes. Item passes. Next up, Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. And it's the ordinance for the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford City Market. Thank you. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Wilgerman? Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Herving? Irvins? Aye.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely, 13 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to go into closed session? Yeah, I'm joking. Is there a motion to adjourn? Alderman Hervey? Ordinance for the Winches? No, we voted on it, right? No, we didn't. We didn't vote on the ordinance. We voted on...
 We didn't. The committee report, but we didn't do the ordinance just now. I thought we just did that. You just stood up and read it, and then it was Alderman Rose. He read the motion. We need to do the ordinance. I don't think we did the ordinance because you just. Let's do it again. Let's make sure we get it right. Alderman Rose.
 Okay, so for the ordinance, we're moving forward with an ordinance approving the Winnebago County Geographic Information System, WINGIS Intergovernmental Agreement. I think there was a motion. We do not need a vote on the ordinance for that. So let's move forward as a resolution, as a motion, I'm sorry, to vote on it so we should be okay. Thank you. All right, now is there a motion to adjourn? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye.