Jonas, Hanley, McNeely, Shirely. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Is there any... No closed session this evening. No closed session this evening, so we can take that off. Yes, I want to open it up for officers reports. Yes, sir. I just have a couple of items that I called them in for their review and inspection. I have a series of petitions right here. Very colorful, very nice. And we will see more of these.
 These are petitions by fifth graders to save Halloween. So we may be considering something in the future as to whether or not we will be allowing trick-or-treating within the city of Rockford. So we have a whole series of petitions for us to save Halloween. So you could inspect these if you want, but I haven't.
 sorry there was there a decision made on halloween alderman dirky if you want to uh give them to the clerk we can make sure that they're um recorded and sent off the alderman was there a decision currently made on halloween
 Save Halloween. As of right now, no, we're still waiting on guidance. Not save Ferris, save Halloween. No Ferris Bueller? All right, is there any other officers' reports? Oh, I have more. Yes, sir. When have I ever been done? It's unusual. I know. Bear with me a little bit. I just wanted to set something up for the City Council that I'm starting to find troubling, and I think it merits our consideration. I know I've talked in part to Nick Myers about some of these things.
 But it looks like, when I started City Council years ago, it looked like we had made for some time some good progress with silos within government agencies. Where we were working collectively, we were working together, we were working toward a common good. We talked about regionalism, we talked about growth and development, and it was actually a good time.
 some good innovation, some good programming, some good development. I think downtown has been very different. But I think over the past, people are using COVID as an excuse and some other things, but over the past year or two, I've noticed that we are retreating back into the silos. You've heard me talk about the health department. I think our health department needs serious review, their actions,
 especially with this COVID thing. It is still disturbing to me that the Health Department has set up their own court, court of review for persons that maybe they deem to be violating health code ordinances. So they have a complaint, they investigate the complaint, then they adjudicate the complaint with persons that weren't involved in the complaint as if that creates objectivity.
 Now the Health Department director has quoted the Illinois statute on certain things that she's done, but she doesn't quote, which is Illinois law. And it says, except as provided in this section, no person or group of persons may be ordered to be quarantined or isolated and no place may be ordered to be closed.
 and made off limits to the public except with the consent of the person or the owner of the place or upon prior order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The health department may, however, order a person or group of persons to be quarantined or isolated or may order a place to be closed and made off limits due to the
 to the public on an immediate basis without prior consent or court order if in the reasonable judgment of the department, immediate action is required to protect the public from dangerously contagious or infectious disease.
 In the event of an immediate order issued without prior consent or court order, the department shall, as soon as practical, within 48 hours after issuing the order, obtain a consent of the person or the owner or file a petition requesting a court order authorizing the isolation or quarantine. In other words, if they're going to close a business, they've got to go to court of competency within 48 hours. That's not being done and it's not being said. Different statutes are quoted by the health department
 It's frustrating to me because, you know, I spend some time in restaurants and I'll give you an example of the frustration. I'm on the east side of Rockford and I sat in a cloth chair. I mean, I'm sorry, I was going to sit in a cloth chair like this. In that business, there was yellow tape over it. You couldn't sit on the cloth chair because the health department said that that was no good.
 I go out here to an establishment, I sat in a cloth chair. And the day before, because I asked him about it, I said, I was just on the east side, you can't do that. And he said, no, they were just here yesterday, you can do this. So these are the things I'm finding troubling with the health department, including to how they deal with our restaurants and such, with sinks and other, that are arbitrary. And we can't have that. And there has to be some
 oversight somehow with the city of Rockford where we as aldermen represent the citizens and businesses of Rockford and hold some people's feet to the fire as to their arbitrary nature of what they're doing. The library closures are another example. I'm reading more about development in the Rockford Register Star that I'm hearing in the city council. So they're closing libraries. It's a taxpayer-funded thing. They don't sell hamburgers.
 So what in the world is happening with the library that they're closing these things? I mean, who tells us this stuff? And most recently is the Park District. The Park District now is, there used to be a committee, apparently, where a lot of this was discussed and that was put on the shelf. The Park District basically just announced they're closing the Carlson Ice Arena, which does the vast majority of visitors for hockey.
 than Carlson. So they're going to close this when this is a huge portion of visitors and foot traffic downtown. In their document, they put out this flyer. Apparently it may come out to the citizens of Rockford, but I got a copy. And in the document, on the last page, ironically they put out in their one square, economic development,
 The Rockford Park District stimulates economic development. Key facts, parks and facilities can ignite redevelopment, revitalization, investment, et cetera. But they're going to close a huge 300,000 visitors come to the River Ice Arena, and they're going to close that. But they're devastating.
 But they didn't tell me Bill Rose is the I doubt if he's heard he's the chairman of planning development. Does anybody know this? Do you know that right now they're considering in the sports core factory? Programming it to only local visitors local stuff local schools when we were told That this was going to be by experts whether it be John grow or the park district That they could program this and bring all kinds of tournaments and we voted based upon their expertise now somebody did
 made a big mistake because now we got a building that's basically a high school gym that we pay $22 million for and we're still paying for. Now what's happening now is if they reprogram that, that goes away. The ice arena goes away. They're reprogramming Sports Corps 1, which during our negotiations for this reclaiming Rockford, they basically said they would keep this open, at least for softball.
 So the park district is now collapsing. They're going to give us neighborhood parks like my park, which we have, gets their grass cut once a year, whether we like it or not. And they're moving their economic development and economic programming to a city, Love's Park,
 We're subsidizing now. We pay, the park district gets well more than 70% of its budgets from the citizens of Rockford, but they're leaving the core downtown, moving to the east side. These are very frustrating things. This is not how we intended to work, whether it be the health department, the library, or the park district. You don't get to operate in a silo.
 You need to cooperate, you need to talk to people, you need to communicate. And quite frankly, I don't buy the line that that building is not rehab-able. Because I like that phrase, it's beyond its useful life. My daughter just bought a house in Chicago that was built in 1930 and it works.
 And if we can't fix that building, then I don't know, maybe we need something else. My suggestion, or I think it needs serious contemplation, whether or not the city of Rockford, because of our economic support of the park district, because of what we do and our liabilities, whether or not the city of Rockford should consider taking over the park district and eliminating that as a unit of government.
 forcing the issue where the the park district board is now expanded and the park district board is elected by certain districts that actually represent people or lastly that either we look you know we look at it's almost a breach park district made certain representations to us and the rvc made certain representations to us about what they could do with programming and now they're walking that back but we're stuck with the bill and that that should not happen
 So somewhere down the line with Park District, they fed us in line when it comes to sports court with the sports factory. And now they're feeding us, I think they're feeding us another line with closing Carlson Ice Arena. There's plenty of foot traffic, there's plenty of business.
 If they mean what they say, that they're concerned and they tout economic development, well, then they need to keep that open. And I think as a council and I think as a city, I think we need to start exercising our oversight and our interest over the park district since 70% of their budget comes from this council, one way or another. And so I think with these three...
 Government entities. I think we need to take their actions very seriously and seeing where they're eroding certain liberties certain freedoms and certain responsibilities and I Think we need to blow their hair back a little bit and hold them accountable to some of the stuff They're doing because it's certainly annoying to me I don't know if it's annoying to you folks, but the park district thing I think was the straw that for me That's a straw that broke the camel's back. I
 That's, they're operating in a silo. And Jay Sandeen should, or somebody should have been here with us explaining what is happening with real life numbers. And they're not. They put it out in a newspaper. So I'm glad their economic development planning and I'm glad their strategic planning
 I get their message from the Rockford Register Star. It's a great way to communicate, and it's a great way to work with another government agency. The silos need to stop again. We need to be very careful about what these other government entities are doing within our city. Thanks. Thank you. Is there any other officers' reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 I'd like to read in part of a letter that was sent to me from the organization Progressive West Rockford Community Development Corporation. And it's signed by Reverend Earl S. Dotson, Sr. This letter focuses on issues raised by the Illinois Legislative Black Caucus and what it calls the Black Agenda.
 to aid all black residents in Illinois. And we are most grateful that some of our black politicians in Springfield have finally decided to take a firm stand on the inequality pandemic of criminal justice, education, health, and economic development. These issues have ravaged black communities for decades.
 State Representative Emanuel Welch and LaShawn Ford are to be highly commended for the public stand they have taken, along with many of their Illinois Black Caucus colleagues. Moreover, it is encouraging to hear expressions of support for the Black Agenda,
 from Governor Pritzker, State Senate President Don Harmon, and State House Speaker Michael Madigan. Even some Republican legislators have expressed concerns as how to attack these issues of inequality. Frankly, Auderwoman McNeely, we have wondered why more local politicians, especially Democrats, haven't spoken publicly and forcefully on the black agenda.
 informing the black citizens, especially those on the west side of Rockford, where the inequality issues are most manifest, especially economic development, emphasizing entrepreneurship for blacks. They need to know this and hear it from these politicians, for too often these politicians come as deceitful patrons
 of the Westside of Rockford Blacks at election time for votes or census taken and then disappear. The Westside of Rockford Blacks want to know, as do we, will any hearings on these matters that have been going on since last month be held here in Rockford? That is why we are reaching out to the Illinois Black Caucus leadership seeking to have them come to Rockford with hearings. And if not, why?
 This way local voices will be heard. For the Illinois Black Caucus was here in the spring and surely they wouldn't be averse to returning for something as important as the Black Agenda. The Black Agenda is highlighting the expenditure of $20 billion in state taxpayer dollars being annually that ignores the black citizens of Illinois. This is disgraceful.
 beyond belief exposing moral depravity of a magnitude that should shame any pretense of civility. Consequently, we need to know where Senators Stottleman, County Board Chairman Haney, Mayor McNamara, the Democrats on the County Board, City Council, Winnebago County Central Committee, Township,
 and members stand in terms of the black agenda as the silence is disturbing. For we seek from all of them expressions of support for action to bring about substantive change for the west side of Rockford, not just more rhetoric. For it is very disturbing not to hear this call for action from such persons and organizations to address the black agenda.
 We recently joined the Rockford Chamber of Commerce and noticed the business community silence, as well the educational communities. As State Representative Kemp said, the black agenda can't wait, and he is introducing legislation in a few weeks to address the issues raised by the black agenda to aid all black citizens of Illinois. And we need to hear,
 from those cited above that they are willing to support the black agenda. For the black communities throughout Illinois and elsewhere are tired of the rhetoric and no serious action. The message is just vote for us black people then go away and be quiet. That will no longer work. For these communities have to be energized to vote with the main message being get rid of the sociopath presently occupying the White House.
 No action towards our issues. No vote turnout, just ask Hillary Clinton. We applaud Alderwoman Ann Thompson Kelly's accepting the challenges dealing with police reform and criminal justice. As important as that is, it is our view, and has been for decades, that meaningful economic development here in Rockford, especially on the west side, is the linchpin for all of the rest
 as countless studies have shown that where there is serious economic development, criminal behavior, especially of the violent type, is minimal or non-existent. Our organization is only, and I emphasize only, an organization with a plan developed by indigenous people focused on economic development for the west side of Rockford. We have touted it for decades,
 to various administrations and business groups to know of them. This plan is something we should be most proud to disclose to the Illinois Black Caucus as we consider it an integral part of the Black Agenda. If they knew about us from others, that would be great. But now we are going to tell them about us. Thus, Rockford's Black Agenda can't wait.
 In our plan, we have two manufacturing proposals that we have discussed with the Illinois Manufacturing Association. The mayor and chamber, we've discussed that would employ 60 persons, each involving Reverend Rucker. James Pond is working on a restaurant and banquet sports bar facility that will employ 50 people.
 Housing, rehab, and construction involving Adrian Turner that will employ 30 persons. Mrs. Dorothy Hill, a clothing imperium that would employ 30 persons. Alta Ford's charter bus service, which would employ 45 to 50 persons.
 Mrs. Joyce McIntyre with a McDonald's type restaurant and catering service employing 35 to 40 persons. A music theater arts venue for South Main Street employing 35 persons involving Darrell Gray. All night laundromat employing six. It is part of our phase one for Westside Rockford development involving an investment of approximately $70 million.
 This is less than half a percent of $20 billion being spent annually on pittance. As Kemp and Ford are saying, we are demanding change, and we will see where our true friends are now before November 3 and afterwards, including those in Congress. For it is disturbing to read what State Representative LaShawn Ford said in a Chicago Tribune on September 1, 2020.
 For years, the cries and the fight have been unheard. And we are now at a moment where our white colleagues that have been raised in white communities that just didn't understand what we were talking about are now uncomfortable. This was stated at a Tuesday news conference. And I won't continue to read here.
 The letter that he has sent me, but I do admit it for it to be a part of the record. And I thank all of you for taking the time to listen to this. Thank you Alderman McNeely. Is there any further officers reports? Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just want to comment on Alderman Durkee's comments with respect to the library. I also didn't find out about that issue of closure or cutting hours.
 until i read it in the paper last week and i understand they were having a community meeting tonight and i commend them for that um but as a as the council that uh points their board and works closely with the library i guess i wouldn't mind hearing from the library director on uh the one million dollar i think deficit what the cause of that deficit is i can't imagine it's related to covid i'm sure they've been uh
 Hit by code by by being closed or having to cut services, but the revenue is primarily from property taxes. So I'm just curious how they got into a situation like that. And I don't think it's because of cobit, I think closing a library really should take pause for some serious consideration for the community, especially these 2 specific libraries that serve the residents for all sorts of needs, whether it is having Internet access, WI, fi access.
 A place for for students that live in the area to work on school projects or research. I understand that because of cobit that may be different. But, but, you know, hopefully we're going to get through this and I hopefully. They're not just going to close down libraries because of because of right now they're not.
 working or they're not open. I believe it was discussed about cutting hours and maybe that is a better alternative or cutting services in all libraries instead of completely closing and taking out staples of two parts of the community.
 So I just wanted, perhaps, for all I know, perhaps the library did reach out to the city administration, and I'm just not aware of that, but I just, like I said, I also was shocked to hear about it through the paper, and I would ask that we get a little bit more information on that. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. I don't know if there's been any invitation extended to the library executive director or even to the park district director. I mean, maybe the city administrator or somebody could.
 Extend that invitation to come to one of our committees. We certainly can do that. We will charge you with that. All right, any further officers' reports? Do we have a motion to adjourn? Alderman Hervey has a hand up. Oh, Alderman Hervey, I'm sorry. Oh, no, just very quickly, I wanted to make sure that people understood. I can't speak for the Health Department or some of the other places that are making some changes.
 I do know that Jay Sandeen is planning on holding with the Park District some further meetings. I don't know whether those are going to be like community-wide or if they're going to have three or four. But he did reach out to me as they were discussing some of the potential changes. And my understanding is that these are not etched in stone as of yet.
 That may be incorrect, but I certainly do not want people in the public to believe that there's not room for discussion. At the same time, we've got to give people some solutions. We've been through this as a city where everybody said, don't cut this, but didn't say to cut what. We don't want our taxes raised. We actually want them lowered. So there's some tough decisions out there to be made.
 And I will just say, I commend the Park District for not decimating Southwest Rockford.
 which is typically the first mode of operation. I'll say the same thing for the library. I believe the Park District has worked hard. We talk about crime in this community and juvenile interdiction in that crime, and I've watched the Park District pour not just money and resources, but highly qualified people and programming.
 to meet those kids' needs. And I understand everything Alderman Durkee is saying. I understand people's concerns about Riverview Ice House. But I also want you to keep in mind that the Park District is probably the number one place where children receive programming, leadership, and guidance. I don't know what we would do without you.
 i always get this wrong is it washington park community center i always give it the wrong name right out on the far west side that probably saves more kids and prevents more crime than at any other place in the city with the leadership and guidance they give those kids i understand a lot of this is painful i used to golf i wouldn't want you to close any golf course anywhere um
 but I applaud them for not chopping Ingersoll, which is typically the first thing that people look at. So tough decisions are going to hurt somebody everywhere, and we've made sacrifices throughout the city, but I do want people to look at all that the Park District does and has tried to do in maintaining safety,
 not just bricks and mortar, but also services for people and engagement for youth. Thank you. Thank you for those quick comments. I say that because Alderman Toomber just raised his hand. Oh, I thought you were being sarcastic. No, but I guarantee I'll be quicker than Alderman Hervey. That is a guarantee. Oh, okay.
 Thank you, Alderman Hervey. Alderman Thunberg, you have something quick to say? Yeah, unfortunately I came in late a little bit too. Alderman Durkee, regarding the health department and some of the practices that are in place right now.
 More businesses are on the verge of shutting down in the third ward, along with many of your wards probably as well. So I would like to, I would encourage our health department director to come and address city council at some point. Again, on some of the other issues, I don't like to hear first word coming from the newspaper as well on some issues. I will say on one hand though,
 just for the record that the director of the Park District and the board chairman did reach out to me late last week I can't
 What day I can't precisely say whether that was a day of news came out or not, but we are scheduled to meet and that is most likely. Do I thought to myself being the alderman of the ward where. Riverview is located in the UW Sports Center, so I am looking forward to to that meeting, but I did just want to put for the record. They did reach out. Thank you. Thank you. Any further officers reports.
 hearing none do we have a motion to adjourn motion a second to adjourn clerk can you call the roll jerky logamon toonberg frost hervey hi hoffman beach hi quinones hanley mcneely shirelli hi tonight we are adjourned thank you thanks for using webex visit our website at www.webex.com