Okay, clerk, can you please call the roll? Yes. You need to vote on that, so yes or no. Toonberg. Hervey. Irvin. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Alderman Durkee. Twelve ayes. Okay.
 Good evening and welcome to the September 21 City Council regular meeting. If we could start with an invocation. Let us pray. Father, we come to you tonight and we open ourselves to you. We ask you to come in to this meeting, guide all of the decisions that are made here tonight, Lord. Guide the discussions that are made, guide the decisions. Father, we ask that your will be done.
 We also ask that you continue to protect our police officers, our fire department, EMS, all first responders. We pray for peace, order, and calm over this city. In Jesus' mighty name, amen. Pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Madam Clerk, if you could please call roll. Durkee. Here. Logeman. No. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Quinones. Hanley. Here. McNeely. Chiarelli. Here. 12 present. Thank you. Next, if we could have an acceptance of the journal, the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council Meeting held on August 10th, 2020. Is there a motion?
 Second. Please call the vote. Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Quinones. Alderman, this is a yes or no vote. Aye. Alderman Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Chiarelli.
 We'll try it again on number two, which is the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council Meeting on August 17, 2020. Is there a motion to approve? So moved. Clerk, if you please call the vote. Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 12 ayes. Thank you.
 I don't believe we have any proclamations tonight, so we'll move on to petitions and communications. First, we have code and regulation committee. Thank you.
 To the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 2-31, that will be referred to codes and regs. And the second is a memorandum for Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the authorization to place city-owned property located at 1123 7th Street up for sale. That will also be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Alderman Shkreli. Moving on to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Hanley? Mm-hmm.
 All right, so we have three tonight. Number one, memorandum from Deb Dorsey, housing and program manager regarding the proposed sale of city-owned property located at 327 Foster Avenue under the City of Rockford's Moe to Own program referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Number two, memorandum from Jeremy Carter, city traffic engineer, regarding an application for the Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program grant by Crest Road, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. And number three, memorandum from Jeremy Carter, city traffic engineer, regarding an application for the Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program for Riverwalk preliminary engineering, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Hanley.
 Moving on next, public speakers. We have five public speakers tonight. I'll call you up individually and this is a reminder, you have three minutes to speak. And at the end of your time, you'll hear a buzzer go off and that's your cue that your time is ended. Thank you. First we have on speaker is Bethany, is it Stiltner? Yes. Hi, just come up to the microphone. Yes, hi, I'm Bethany Stiltner. Yay, I get to go first. I'm here tonight.
 As part of the city citizen and Blackhawk Bicycle and Ski Club, I'm here speaking about the plans that have been underway and people have been working hard for to implement a better infrastructure in the city for cyclists.
 And I just wanted to say that I've only been living in Rockford for four years and in the past three years I've seen some changes in this area and it does make cycling around town a lot better. It makes it feel safer. I don't worry about certain areas where I've fallen off my bike a couple times. So I just want to speak on behalf of this plan being accepted. I think it would make a huge difference for the people of Rockford.
 who commute, who need to ride their bike for transportation. It's a huge deal. And when the streets and infrastructure is in place, it really makes it feel safer. When I visit other towns that have this in place, I think, wow, they care about their citizens enough to put these fancy bike lanes and this infrastructure in place so that people are safe when they're getting to the places. And it makes it more accessible.
 for anybody. And then I think there's a lot of gaps still left in the plan, and I think it would be really important for this plan to get in place so those can be completed. I know also when I was new to town, I would get to a point where it sort of dropped off whatever route or I was trying to follow, and because I was new, I was like, now what do I do? I don't know where to go. And I'd get lost quite a bit, but,
 You know, we do have GPS and stuff like that now, which makes it better. But I think it just is helpful if you're on your bike and there's signs and there's pathways and there's infrastructure that sort of support cycling going however you ride, whether it's recreational or for necessity or recreation. I already said that or just because you like to train, you know, exercise and the like
 activities it's all especially for that kind of writing when when you have a family going out or a group of friends that just want to kind of commune and maybe go to a business downtown and hang out and have fun it's really important to have a safe way to get there so i would be in favor of it i think most of the people in the blackhawk bicycle and ski club would be on board with this as well when we've talked about it as a board
 um you know they we want to promote safe cycling and this is one way to do that for a city um i think that's all i have to say uh let's see oh yeah i think i think i'm good all right next thank you very much next we have the honorable patrick yarborough retired good evening thank you for the opportunity to address the city council concerning the adoption of the 10-year bicycle plan
 The City of Rockford is moving forward through combined leadership of the City Council, the R1PC, the Winnebago County Health Department, and a groundswell of volunteer organizations such as Ride Illinois, Transform Rockford, Dex Rockford, the Rockford Chamber of Commerce, Alignment Rockford, and of course iBike Rockford.
 All these entities are working with the common goals of improving the quality of life of the region and the retention of young professionals. The 10-year bicycle plan is an essential linchpin to the wheels of progress of our city and region. This bicycle plan and the progression of the plan to the adoption before yourselves represents an extensive study
 based on our past, our present, and our future for our children and our grandchildren. Just like our grandparents saw the need and significance of establishing one of the best park districts in the nation, we are here tonight to ask this robust council to continue the regional plan for a better Rockford.
 We are all aware of the financial concerns of the city government when the economy is thriving. However, we are experiencing a global pandemic and the regular budget requirements are exasperated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The city council could fall back and retreat to what normally people say, well, we're
 We do not have the funds or our money needs to be spent elsewhere. However, now is the time to seek the various revenue, existing revenue that's out there. When you look at the bicycle plan, it refers to funds from the state government, the federal government, private grants, and donations.
 If we do not have this 10 year plan, we will not be able to tech into those numerous support organizations, those grant plans, and the low hanging financial fruit that other cities are not going to pursue. This is one of the best times right now to adopt this bicycle plan and take advantage of these other financial sources that are available to us. In conclusion,
 This bicycle plan is more than just pages of paper. This plan represents a recognition of what our community believes is essential to our quality of life, recreation, city pride, and retention of our young professionals. To use a tired football analogy, the bicycle plan is on the one yard line with seconds left in the game and now is the time to join together
 to push the bicycle plan over the goal line for victory for the lives of our community thank you for this opportunity to speak with you tonight thank you very much our next speaker is john brantley
 All the persons that are citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Sunday at church, we got a pastor that's 17 years old. He reminded me of Dr. King. He did a page out of James 1, 2-4. We can't really know the depth of our character until we see how we act under pressure.
 It is easy to be kind to others when everything is going well, but can we still be kind when others are treating us unfairly? God wants to make us mature and complete, not to keep us from all pain. Instead of complaining about our struggle, we should see them as an opportunity for growth.
 be with you in rough times. Ask him to help you solve your problems or give you the strength to endure them. Then be patient. God will not leave you alone with your problems. He will stay close and help you grow. This past weekend, Thursday, they had a meeting with the, talking about systematic racism at the Democratic caucus meeting. It kind of blew me away.
 Instead, they talked about registering voters. But they never asked what our concerns are or what our issues are. And to be a precinct committeeman, you have to know the people. You have to be in the community doing things for the people. If I use for example, they say, oh, he just bragging. When Brother John was out there on the front line from the time that coronavirus hit, we never left the front line. And I'm 65 years old and I don't have a cold.
 And then we did the food. We helped people with bills. We did the back-to-school book bag. We got the Alderman here to thank. He hooked us up with Target back-to-school book bag. We got this Alderman to thank because when they cut my three minutes off and they said, Wait a minute. We've been under this for 400 years and went heavy.
 And so we had Democrats that didn't even care about what our concerns are. So this past weekend and just today, a lot of the moms, I got 178 families that's in my voters block. I got over 500 families. We go from Riverside to the Sandy Hollow. We go from Alpine to Concord. That's the area that I cover. I can go and knock on any of them doors and they'll recognize me. Guess what?
 I emailed Chad because my constituents is saying, let's go to the Republican meeting. And the Republicans be supporting us since the Democrats is dissing us. So we're going to find out from Chad. We're going to take my constituents' visit to them because we're not going to be Democratic, Republicans, or independent unless y'all are doing things that's going to help us in the community to help uplift us.
 uh, Roffin House Mentority, uh, heard, heard I cry. We got, uh, single moms that got kids that's not equipped to do homeschooling. Booker Washington heard my cry. They stepped, they stepping up to the plate. We got a story over here. He just broke his back to school, uh, book, uh,
 his laptop. Would it be replaced? No, it would not. And last but not least, before I'm going to finish saying this, how can the Republicans vote for a judge in an election year when the Democratic had a President Obama couldn't vote for a judge for the Supreme Court during the election year? But yet the Republicans can. We call that foul. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Our next speaker we have is Kay Larrick.
 Good evening. It's great to be with you this evening. First, I want to give a lot of applause and appreciation to each of you that worked on the first tenure plan and getting that put through. And I certainly am in favor of the second tenure plan. I don't speak of this from a recreational or athleticism, sorry to say, for my own sake.
 But I do come for those who need bikes as a means of essential transportation. At Carpenters Place, we work with homeless adults and we provide the tools for rebuilding their lives. In the case of transportation, a bike really is that key to success many, many times.
 Unfortunately in Rockford, the bus routes don't always have the routes or the hours that work with the jobs that our guests get. We've had examples of, we have a housing program that's on the northwest side of town. A gentleman in that program got a job at the Schnucks on East State. That's quite a haul. Well, to get there, he could take a bus. Okay.
 But when he got off, it wasn't available. Now, although it's a long way, he considered it a true blessing when he got a bike and was able to bike home. So it really helps move people from dependency to becoming a contributing member of our community.
 So whether they're going to a job, if they're going just to put the application in for a job, make medical appointments, other business appointments, the bikes really are truly an essential tool for their success. And it's really even more efficient.
 For many people who are low income, it's a better option for transportation than a car would be. If somebody offers to donate a car, we're always very hesitant because of the fact that the initial expense, the title, the license and all, but then the ongoing expense.
 We don't encourage that until after a person has been employed for quite a while, built up a healthy reserve of funds to be able to do that. We probably all here have had those unexpected car repairs.
 so we think that a bike is a better more efficient way and we greatly greatly appreciate the emphasis that's put on safety in this plan we have had some guests who have had serious mishaps on bikes um we try we equip them we have a program called cycles for change where we provide a bike and then we have worked with bike clubs
 So that we have helmets and lights also working on safety, but greatly appreciate the emphasis on safety That's in this plan. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next we have Robert sinks. Mr. Sinks here My name is Rob sinks and I'm from kegels bicycle store. I see and deal with cyclists of all forms I feel the need for the complete streets resolution is more more consumers have bought bikes
 and are trying to commute to work grocery stores and like places like city market i hear from a lot of my customers that if they they would feel safer on the road and they would use their bikes more not for just recreation i feel the routes that we have are a nice start but are not connected to each other and other than that um it makes it difficult to navigate the city easily and safely i also work with many customers
 whose main form of transportation is a bicycle. Many live on the west side and work on the east side and use State Street to get to their works and have to deal with the traffic situation out there in the Alpine area. So having dedicated routes that are clearly marked for both bikes, the riders, and motorists too. I mean, motorists need that education to know that cyclists have a three-foot
 safety space would be highly beneficial. And on a personal note, we know in this pandemic year, we've sold a ton of bikes, but we've had very few trade-ins. We've had very few donations and we do a lot of stuff that we, when people donate bikes and we fix them up, no charge and we don't do anything and we give them to Carpenter's Place and we also give them to Rock House. So if you've got any extra stuff laying around or you know what it does, bring them down and we'll come and get them. So thanks for letting me speak. Thank you very much.
 that concludes our public speakers thank you to all that showed up and spoke i appreciate it uh next we're moving on to new committee reports uh under planning and development committee alderman rose under planning and development we have one item it's uh the committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement between the city of rockford and 304 maine llc for the rehabilitation of 304 north main street thank you clerk please call the vote
 Durkee Logum in to burn frost Irvin's Thompson Kelly I Hoffman Rose Quinones Hanley McNeely Shirely 12 eyes Moving on we have nothing under code and regs. So we move on to finance and personnel committee Alderman Hanley. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. Finance and Personnel Committee has three items on the agenda this evening. Number one, committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $14,299,615.30 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on September 14, 2020.
 Number two, committee recommends the approval of the proposed sale of the city-owned property located at 1811 Crosby Street to Matt and John Boothby of Rockford, Illinois, for their bid of $1,500. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number three, committee recommends the approval of an ordinance...
 authorizing the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, Illinois, to borrow funds from the Public Water Supply Loan Program, or Water Pollution Control Loan Program, and issue its Water Works revenue bonds to evidence such borrowing in the amount not to exceed $6,210,000. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these items up for passage. Thank you very much. Are there any questions or comments on these three items?
 seeing none here and any online uh clerk will you please call the vote jerky logeman frost irving thompson kelly hi hoffman rose kinonas hanley mcneely shirely 12 eyes thank you moving on the motions and resolutions uh under the planning development committee alderman rose
 There's just one item, the resolution approving the Rockford Bikeway Implementation Study. Thank you. Any questions or comments? Yes, I do. One second. Alderman Irvays had your hand up first. Yes, thank you, Your Honor, for allowing me to speak. I just want to say I appreciate everybody that spoke today on this bike path. I just don't think I can support it tonight. And as much as we may need it and as nice as it is, I see it as an amenity and not a necessity.
 When outside of this city hall, no one else supports this in the city. None of my constituents. You know, I'm only hearing bikers supporting it. But my question is, if we're looking at a percentage, then how many of that consists of bikers? Because, I mean, as a taxpayer, I don't ride a bike. I got a $40,000 vehicle, and I'm running over potholes. It's a 10-year plan. I get it. But when we, I mean, last week I remember hearing it was, what, $10,000?
 $300,000 a year that we're going to be allocating to these funds. That's what that's submitted in the plan. That's just as much as each alderman is getting in their, their ward funds each year. And it, that just does not make sense to me. We have incomplete sidewalks. We have incomplete gutters. We have people that are trying to use the sidewalks to get to work and can't do that. And now we have an incomplete bike path structure and we're applying monies to it that is
 I believe personally unnecessary. I mean, the amount of people that aren't benefiting from it but are accounted as that $1.00, only a handful of people are going to be benefiting from this. I would really like to know, I mean, has there been a study, have we looked and actually tallied up the number of people that will actually benefit from these bike paths because
 i don't think anybody in my ward is with i mean i had to i had to put in sidewalks because we our kids was walking in the streets and in mud so i just i think it's common sense i just i don't think it's a real thought process i mean we we look at these other municipalities and it's like they're doing it so if we did it it'd be success but i don't know if we're even doing what they did to get to that point
 of success. And it's, I think we should really take a hard look at how we're spending dollars here. I really do. That's it. Thank you. Is there someone online? Yeah, go ahead.
 Thank you. I want to express my concerns for this as well. When we went to the residents of this community for that 1% for our capital improvement plan, we went to them to repair our streets and our infrastructure. Repair.
 We did not go to them for new sidewalks. This is deceiving the taxpayers and the public of what we were to do with that 1%. And it's going to be coming up to the public for that 1% to be voted on again. We can't, I will not be a part of deceiving the public for what they gave us and trusted us to do with that 1%.
 So I will not be supporting this at all. And I, too, have put streets in and been told that there's not enough money to repair a street. And this is what we marketed and campaigned for the C Capital Improvement Plan, even though we've twisted the words and colloquially.
 classify these bike paths as infrastructure, that is not what we said to the public and this community when they approved this 1 percent. I will not be supporting this at all. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Chairman.
 you know in regards to uh you know repairing streets and such you know many of these projects can be implemented uh i think in conjunction uh as far as you know bikes use the road too if you've ever hit a pothole on a bike versus a car it can be pretty dangerous so i think if if you are an advocate for increasing the bicycle infrastructure
 It doesn't mean you're not for fixing potholes and improving the streets, because simply right now, at least at this point in time, of course, our bicycle infrastructure is very minimal. And that then results in bicyclists using the streets. So I think as a bicyclist myself, I am for improving the streets. And so I don't want it to be confused that
 that it's either one or the other. Also, when we do look at other cities that sometimes seem to be unfortunately light years ahead of us, and I know all of us here are trying, and thank you for that, but we do need to take a look at other municipalities that do have success. And I think many of these municipalities do have a pretty thorough bicycle infrastructure
 Yes, I think right now you could say that, what's the percentage? Are we just catering to a small percent? You know, it may look like that, and part of that reason is our current infrastructure. If we improve our infrastructure, I think you're gonna see, not think, I know you'll see plenty more individuals that are using this kind of mode of transportation
 to get to work, for an example. Simply right now, a lot of that infrastructure isn't there to do such a thing. But not only for exercise and sport, but also as a means of transportation. Remember the line bikes, of course, and I got great humor out of watching my fellow aldermen, Logerman and Rose, attempt to ride one.
 remember that last mile and And that's what the line bikes really were for the Individuals who are using public transportation But that last mile and we know what our public transportation system here is like I know they're trying as well but again You know looking at other communities You know that that is where line bikes I think really helped in
 in the underserved part of our communities. And I think, you know, looking at the big picture, again, I want to emphasize, if you are a cyclist, it doesn't mean that you're not for infrastructure of other things as well. They can be combined and there can be synergy there. So thank you, Chairman. Thank you. Alderman Rose.
 I wanted a second what alderman toonberg had said there a few things just a quick reminder on on this item one is that this item is just the Rockford bikeway implementation study. It's the ten-year plan. It doesn't put forth any dollars Towards anything. It's just the plan having the plan allows for the city to seek out funding through private interests and
 Like judge had mentioned private interests, state dollars and federal dollars. And so we would be. Irresponsible not to move forward with a plan because essentially we're saying is that we don't want to bring. Those kind of funds to our community and so.
 In not having a plan and not approving a plan would basically say we don't want federal tax dollars to come to the state or to the city of Rockford secondly When we see the research that was done by I bike Rockford right riders, Illinois or right, Illinois in the community
 At community meetings I go to where usually three or four or five people show up and you have a full house of over 50 or 60 people show up.
 and some of them not even from Rockford, they just want to be a part of it. This is a huge deal for our community in the sense that it does provide for walking paths or multi-use paths as a part of it. So the whole idea that this is a sidewalk versus a bike lane kind of idea,
 Not really. When you look at a lot of the projects that have been getting done, especially along West State and North Main, those are multi-use paths, where people walking their dogs, people going for a walk, people walking to work or riding to work are benefiting from these dollars. And so I just want to remind people in this horseshoe that,
 this isn't uh one versus the other kind of funding we can do both and it means a ton of dollars for us through the federal and state government if we are applying for grants and that's all this is there's we're not approving a budget item we're not saying that we're spending three hundred thousand dollars it's just saying that there's a 10-year plan that it's it's on the shelves and that we can go to it when it comes time for applying for grants
 Thank you, Alderman Rhodes. Alderman McNeely. Mr. Chairman, and I certainly appreciate the residents that came tonight and spoke on behalf of the bike path, I mean the bike lanes. I understand that this is a study, this is a proposal, putting together for a 10-year period to have the bike lanes put in. My problem, as I stated last week, is that...
 There are things that I have requested that never got into a plan regarding the streets, regarding the sidewalks. So my problem is either through the administration or through the Public Works Department, there needs to be some changes. When aldermen express concerns about specifically roads or sidewalks,
 then that should be not only put in consideration, but a plan presented just as this plan has came about. And dollars, federal dollars, state dollars, whatever it may be, we bring into the city on a regular basis and certainly the Public Works Department has been very good at bringing in those dollars to help us.
 I want to see Public Works Department bring those dollars in for some of the things that I've been asking for and I'm sure some of the other aldermen have been asking for. So tonight, as I stated last week, I don't support this and I certainly appreciate my colleagues that have spoken up, Alderman Irving and Alderman Thompson-Kelley, against this.
 But I really would encourage the administration and the Public Works Department to consider those items that we as aldermen have expressed and come up with a plan as you have worked on this plan for a 10-year period and work on those federal and state dollars for the things that we would like to see done.
 After the meeting last week, I received a number of calls supporting me and what I had said, saying that they've been complaining about sidewalks. There's that sidewalk list, which we all know is a number of years. And from that, Director Henrietta, South Henrietta, from West State to Preston,
 residents a number of residents over there complain to see if we can't correct the sidewalks that are there and put in new sidewalks where there aren't on on South Indiana so thank you very much what's that all the show director the city administrator explained if this resolution is approved
 tonight what is the impact on the comprehensive plan going forward for the city of Rockford and What if it's not approved? What's the impact to the city of Rockford? Thank you alderman, so this is a guiding document as stated in the previous presentation the 10-year plan that was previously adopted by the City Council had come to an end it had been 10 years and
 So a matter of best practice and planning is that we'd bring forward a new 10 year plan. That would be a guiding document related to our bicycle improvements as previously stated the adoption of this resolution doesn't.
 allocate any particular funds to those improvements that would be part of the capital improvement program that would come before City council in the coming months typically during that process we would identify and continue our practice of
 highlighting infrastructure of need so that we can have a robust discussion with our City Council on how we would invest those dollars. Again, this doesn't allocate funds as part of the approval process but as a guiding document. If this is not approved, does this affect R1PC's ability to get grants or any other agency to get grants in our community?
 It's not uncommon when we pursue funding opportunities that as a grant qualification or to achieve additional points in the ranking system, they'll ask if the proposed grant is consistent with an approved plan of the municipality or whatever the governing body may be. So it is beneficial to have a bicycle
 Plan adopted by City Council when we pursue grant funding opportunities and that would be the same whether that path is a Bicycle improvement is a standalone improvement or part of a greater infrastructure Proposals such as a comprehensive Street reconstruction. The third question is this timing is this
 a time sensitive issue tonight or it sounds like there's some concerns still outgoing is this time sensitive or is this something that can be waited on i just want to know for myself personally i mean we read it in last week we're debating it again tonight
 Certainly the discretion of timing is at the will of City Council. We don't have a pending document or grant application that we're pursuing that is dependent upon this approval this evening. But certainly wanting to move forward with the plan at some point would be the recommendation of our staff. All right. Thank you. Alder Irvins. I forgot what I wanted to say, but I...
 Originally, was this supposed to be because it was a 10 year plan? Was it supposed to be a two part 10 year plan or were we was it set out or is this something that's supposed to just continue on every 10 years? Like, was this.
 mr go ahead i i believe i understood the question was it originally set to be two 10-year plans yes not necessarily it was a 10-year plan and the best practice would be to to bring forward a new plan um upon the completion of that 10 years okay um yeah i appreciate you hearing for allowing me to speak um i guess you know the last thing i would say is i i don't see the success or the failure of
 the city being pivotal or contingent upon the bike paths. But I would definitely, I would like to lay this over if possible. I mean, I think that we could, if we're planning and we're being strategic about how we're dealing our funds, I mean, I know there's federal dollars out there, there's always money out there. The Bible says money has wings, it comes and it goes. We'll have opportunity. But one of my concerns would be, we got bike paths,
 but let's try to get the people to come here first. You know, we got plenty of blight that, you know, we can address. We got plenty of issues that we can address, you know, and not saying that the bike paths is not a good idea. It's a great idea. I don't want that to be misunderstood. I just think that timing is always important, you know, and I think that there's other things that we can look at and place priority on.
 So are you making a motion to lay this man? Yes. Okay. Is there a second? Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second.
 Irvin yes, Thompson Kelly. Yeah Hoffman Rose no, Kenona said a yes alderman Kenona she couldn't hear your vote. I didn't hear it. I'm sorry Hanley McNeely Shirely Eight eyes four nose Emotion too late over his failed if I could just add one thing on this. Mr. Cagnotti I
 If I'm clear, we've had a 10-year plan in effect, and the desire to have another 10-year plan or study in effect is cost neutral to the city. Is that correct? The plan up tonight is cost neutral. It does not allocate any funds. And I guess my point to the council is that we've somehow turned this implementation study into a third rail on bike access, whether or not it's for recreation, training,
 transportation for folks that are using it to get back and forth to work or folks that are trying to get a job. But in reality, we're just really focusing on the study. And one of the reasons to have a study has been identified is to have a legitimacy to move forward and to try to obtain other funds from the federal government, the state government, and other groups and private
 folks as well that are willing to donate money and i mean i guess it'd be like you know when we built north main or west state we we participated with the state of illinois and that if if we said no we're just going to do it on our own it just doesn't make much sense here we have a chance to have an opportunity to have to have a reach out to other organizations and forms of government that can assist us in in in funding for this and uh and so to me it seems to be a no-brainer with respect to the study with respect to certain um
 Bike paths or locations of paths. Maybe that would be a different topic where we could talk, as some folks talked about tonight, the connectivity of paths, where they're going, etc.
 uh we voted on those and in fact i voted no on on the multi-use path across the rock river because on in alderman and thompson will remember it fondly because i said it went to nowhere because on either side of that bridge there wasn't it wasn't connected to another multi-use path or bike path and so i didn't understand why so i mean i think we can we can part and parcel and look at individual projects as they come forward but to not have a study or not have a plan just
 We're taking one step forward, two steps back in the time and to not to have a plan that it is part in my mind of our program. Because it is infrastructure, it's a little bit different than a sidewalk. Although sidewalks may provide transportation, but
 it definitely is part of the cip and again it's not mutually exclusive in the sense that if we spend money on a particular project that means that we can't spend money on anything else we basically i mean you could argue then that we we do that every single time we come down here and vote pretty much on any f p item or anything else because we're moving the city forward we're voting on expenditure funds we could use that same argument on any vote at any given time on f p so
 for that matter, I'm in support of moving ahead with this resolution on the Rockford Bikeway Implementation Study. Are there any questions? I have a comment tonight. Go ahead, Thompson-Kelley.
 Yes, I'd like to know the last 10-year plan that we put together for the sidewalk and I mean, I'm sorry not sidewalks the bike path. How much came out of the CIP for that study and staff time and putting that together and the engineering? Director Saunders?
 thank you alderman uh just to clarify so i understand the question are you referring alderman thompson kelly to the to the study that just recently was completed or the previous study the previous study
 I would have to look into the records. I'm not sure on what the previous study cost in terms of engineering time. I know in particular this study was under $20,000 from an engineering standpoint. Obviously, it's a pretty large document, so there was a lot of time that went into this. And from a staff time standpoint, Jeremy Carter, as well as the engineering team, spent several months working with our consultant,
 engaging different stakeholder groups. There was a considerable amount of staff time that went into this study.
 Thank you. I just want to make it clear when everyone is saying that it's not costing us any money, it is costing us money. And it's costing the dollars out of the CIP. Also, I agree with you, Alderman, we did build a sidewalk to nowhere. And my concern is building a bike path to nowhere, looking at the study that's been done and how it breaks off and connects in the city and it's not taking the entire city
 into consideration. That's my point of view. I wish that staff would have sit down or invited the Alderman's comments before this was put before the entire city council. I understand there has to be a study, there has to be a shovel ready idea to receive state and federal dollars. But dollars have been put into the CIP for this project already. We have spent money out of the CIP for this project
 already so there are dollars and i understand being prepared but i also understand deceiving the taxpayers of this community and that's exactly what you've just voted to do thank you thank you seeing none clerk seeing any other no more questions or comments the clerk please call the vote on the resolution Durkee aye Logman aye Toonberg aye Frost aye Irvins Thompson Kelly no
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? Chiarelli? Nine ayes, three noes. Thank you. Moving on to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Chiarelli?
 The low-speed autocross this event is for low-speed autocross drivers that want to learn Learn car control in a course set with traffic cones. The event is scheduled for sunday october 4 2020 at from 9 a.m To 4 p.m. The event will be held at the old magna parking lot across lot located at 3915 East state street place that up for passage. Are there any questions or comments? So, you know here any online? No
 Clerk, please call the vote. Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Chiarelli. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Moving on to Finance and Personnel Committee. Motion and Resolution. Sullivan-Hanley.
 thank you your honor so finance and personnel committee has six items under motions and resolutions tonight number one award of bids no removal municipal sidewalks to dgo services of dust plains illinois for an estimated annual value of a hundred thousand dollars based on unit pricing the contract duration is through october 1 2021 with four possible one-year extension options the funding source is street division operating budget number two
 Award of the bid snow removal police parking lots and sidewalks to tow bar snow professionals at East Dundee, Illinois for an estimated annual value of $65,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through October 1, 2021 with four possible one year extension options. The funding source is property fund operating budget.
 award of bid gasoline and related items to petroleum traders of Rockford, Illinois for unleaded fuel and Smith-Smith oil of Rockford, Illinois for diesel fuel for an estimated annual value of one million three hundred and seventy thousand dollars Based on unit pricing the contract contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extension options equipment fund operating budget
 Number four award bid granular activated carbon replacement to Calgary and Carbon Corporation of moon Township Pennsylvania for an estimated annual contract value of ninety six thousand dollars based on unit pricing The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions the funding source is the water fund operating number five award of RFP water main capacity fire hydrant flow testing to me Simpson corporation
 inc of valparaiso indiana for an estimated contract value of forty nine thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars based on the unit price of forty nine dollars and seventy five cents the contract duration is through november 30th 2021 with an option to extend for an additional four years with one year increments the funding source is the fire and water department operating budgets
 And number six, award of bid private lead service replacement program to Master Mart Plumbing of Rockford, Illinois and Five Star Plumbing of Loves Park, Illinois for an estimated annual contract value of $200,000 based on unit pricing and the bid tabulation.
 the contract duration is from the date of award through december 31st 2020 with an option to extend one year increments for a period of four additional years the funding source is the water fund operating budget and i place these items up for thank you alderman hanley uh are there any questions or comments to any of these six items any online no seeing none clerk please call the vote turkey logeman toomberg frost hi urbans
 Thompson Kelly often Rose Quinones Hanley I make me Lee Shirely 11 eyes thank you moving on a new business under Planning and Development Committee Alderman Rose just one item the an ordinance approving the development agreement between the city of Rockford and 304 main LLC for the rehabilitation of 304 North Main Street thank you are there any questions or comments on this item none here any online
 Okay, clerk, please call the vote. Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Alderman, if you could take a pause for a moment. Alderman Thompson-Kelly's connection has not quite worked. Sure, we can take a brief recess. Sure. No problem. We'll take a short five-minute recess. Hanley. McNeely. Chiarelli. Hanley.
 12 present i thank you we're all back present uh but i'd just like to reflect the record uh since we had an issue with all the manana thompson kelly was connection that with respect to under motions resolutions under code and regulation number one the low speed auto crash uh autocross i'm sorry she voted yes and under finance and personnel items one through six her vote should reflect the yes is that correct alden thompson kelly
 Yes, you are correct. Thank you, Your Honor, and I appreciate your patience. Of course, you always have a problem with me. I just want to hear you say that I'm correct one more time before we move forward. Okay. All right. We're back then on our new business under plan development, the number one, the ordinance. Alderman Rose. Sorry. Okay.
 Again, it's an ordinance approving the development agreement between the city of Rockford and 304 main LLC for the rehabilitation of 304 North Main Street Are there any questions or comments seen on here? Are there any online? Okay clerk, please call the vote jerky logan Toomer frost I Irvin's Thompson Kelly. Hi Hoffman Rose I Kenones Hanley
 McNeely, Chiarelli, 12 ayes. Thank you. Moving on to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Hanley.
 Committee has two items under new business this evening number one is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property located at 1811 Crosby Street to Matt and John Boothby of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $1,500 and number two is an ordinance authorizing the city of Rockford Winnebago and Ogle counties, Illinois to borrow funds from the public water supply loan program and
 or water pollution control loan program and issue its Water Works revenue bonds to evidence such borrowing in the amount not to exceed $6,210,000. Are there any questions or comments?
 But coming in item number one as per mr. Hawkinson's memo I just wanted to draw our attention to a couple bullet points that I think fit in line with City Council's guiding principles to city staff that the booth bees residence is owner-occupied directly adjacent and the McFadden the proposal It appears that that is a rental property not owner-occupied so
 Yeah, I think the recommendation by Mr. Hawkinson does fit in line with the guiding principles from City Council. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On item number two, do we know how much of the $6,210,000 is for the City of Rockford? Saunders.
 thank you alderman uh we're estimating that total whenever we get to that point the total bond sale to be uh to not to exceed 6.2 million dollars so that'll all of those proceeds will go towards this water treatment improvement okay so we don't know okay yeah we're we're currently in the um engineering phase at this point thank you any further questions any online mr mark
 I'll see no clerk. Please call the vote turkey logan timber frost Irvin's Thompson Kelly. All right Hoffman Rose. All right, you know nice Hanley McNeely, hi Shirely 12 eyes Moving on to officers reports any officer reports this evening all the meeting me late. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I
 I would like for us to take a moment of silence for Ruth Bader Ginsburg. It's okay with the Chairman. Thank you. Please stand. Thank you. And Mr. Chairman, I would just like to read a couple of quotes from her. To make life a little better for people less fortunate than you, and that's what I think a meaningful life is.
 One has not just for oneself, but for one's community. And another quote from the judge, the Supreme Court judge, we are at last beginning to relegate to the history books, the ideal of the token woman. She was a champion for civil rights and for women. Under the previous administration,
 The lead better came from partly from her and then, and of course, from the president of the United States. She's someone that a lot of women, including myself, admired. And she's going to be sorely missed, I think, by most of the country. Thank you. Thank you. Any further officer reports?
 Alderman Rose. Just real quick, I wanted to remind residents, October 4th on a Sunday at 3 p.m., the city is hosting a Mel Anderson bike ride out at Mel Anderson Bike Path. The event starts at the Northwest Community Center, so feel free to come out. There will be food, bike giveaways, bike helmet giveaways,
 a ton of activities. We are practicing social distancing. We'll be wearing masks, plenty of PPE gear out there. So we can do it safe and just get out, find a way to get out of the house and hopefully the weather cooperates. Thank you very much. Any further officer reports? Seeing none, is there a motion to adjourn? Second. Clerk, please call the vote. Durkee. Vogelman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost.
 Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Chiarelli? 12 ayes. Thank you. We are adjourned. Have a good week. Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our website at www.webex.com.