Monday September 30th 2019 clerk could you please call the roll Durkee here Gasparini here Thunberg here Urbans Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach here Quinones here McNeely here Chiarelli 12 present thank you so we have a
 thank you so we have a quorum this evening we're going to bypass a public hearing due to time constraints so that we can keep this moving this evening we have alderman Rose who has a communication I believe thank you your honor I just had I wanted to submit to City Council three letters one by sandy tower in favor of the Barbara Coleman project
 So I believe she sent this to each of the members of our council. Two other ones, Kathy Johnson, co-chair of the Northwest United Neighbors Association, and then another letter by Vicki Fogle, the Northland Square Neighborhood President. So I'll get those shared with everyone. Thank you. If you share them with staff, we'll make sure that it gets emailed out to everyone. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have new committee reports, and there is no planning and development items, so we'll move to code and regulations. The one item I will mention is that we are going to hold out.
 I will hold out item number two of code and regs as well as under motions and resolutions. I will hold out until the end of this meeting under motions and resolutions under finance and personnel committee item number three and item number four. We're going to hold those out to the end so we can get through our regular city business that's on our agenda. And then we'll deal with all the casino fun all at once.
 So moving along to code and regulation, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is the 126 North Madison. The Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming at 126 North Madison Street, subject to conditions. I place that up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you. So, and I failed to mention item three there. My apologies. So you'll have one item before you. Is there any discussion on this one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Urbans. Urbans. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 11 ayes. Thank you. The item is passed. Next up, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have six items. The first is the approval of vouchers in an amount of $10,225,071.04. Next is the approval of Head Start budget revision in the amount of $7,272 for the purchase of a Welch Allen Spot Vision Screener. Next is the approval of an application for Transportation Alternative Program funds.
 Next is the intergovernmental agreement with the Illinois Department of Health Care and Family Services and the Rockford Fire Department in connection with enhanced ambulance rates next is the intergovernmental agreement with the Winnebago County of Winnebago and the Winnebago County emergency telephone systems board for 911 call taking and then finally is the intergovernmental agreement with the County of Winnebago for animal services. I place these six items up for passage. Thank you So you have six items before you is there any discussion on those six items? I
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Hervey. Roman numeral 3C. Is it the tap funds or the animal control or 911? Okay. Urbans. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. I'm going to abstain from that. I just have concerns about that. I'm going to vote for it.
 Director Meyer. Yeah, just to clarify, abstentions are typically when there's a conflict of interest. Our council rules require a yes or no vote. Yes or no? I'm going to say no then, for number six. Thank you. Beach. Quinones. No. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Cirelli.
 Items 1, 2, 13 ayes. Item number 3, 12 ayes, 1 no. Item number 4, 13 ayes. Item number 5, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 6, 8 ayes, 5 noes. Thank you. Those items are approved. Next up, we have officers' reports. Are there aldermen who would like to report? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I received a letter regarding animal control.
 within my ward and I'd like to submit this. Thank you. We will come and pick that up. Alderman Irvins. I'd like to correct my vote and change number six to a no. I apologize about that. Okay. So that vote would then be reflective as seven, six. Thank you. Item still moves forward.
 Any other officers reports alderman Thompson Kelly? Thank you your honor. I would like to extend my condolences to the post Lee family It's a family that has given a lot to this community and their volunteer work And I wanted to acknowledge the post Lee family and the death of her son. Thank you Thank you. Certainly a tragic passing alderman can you honest? Yes, I like to I
 I commend our public works director, Kyle, for having the garbage picked up on 23rd and 22nd Avenue. It was nothing but garbage out there. Him working with the Rock River Disposal, they went out there the next day and cleaned it up. And his residents out there wanted me to thank them for doing that.
 Thank you. Any other officers reports alderman McNeely? Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I just want to thank NAACP for the Event though that was held yesterday It was an excellent event. There's a young man there that I
 I think he was like 13 years old, but he did an excellent job in our presentation. The overall event was great, and a number of aldermen were there as well as the mayor. I also would like to point out that Booker Washington Center will be having their annual dinner, 103rd event, on October the 29th at 6 p.m.
 at, I'm sorry, let's see it. Everyone can certainly contact Booker Washington Center to get the location. It would be great if as many people as possible could come out and support this organization. And finally, Mr. Mayor, I'd like to point out that the city is hosting the Second Chances Summit II event
 which will be held at the Norloff Center at 118 North Main Street on November the 1st from 9 to 3. This is an excellent event for individuals that need to get their records expunged. There will be attorneys there that will assist them. So again, you want to look out for that for November the 1st at the Norloff Center. Thank you very much.
 thank you any other reports seeing none we'll move on to motions and resolutions we have nothing under planning and development so we'll move to code and regulation committee with alderman shirelli thank your honor
 First is Rockford Roasting Company 5th Anniversary Celebration, scheduled for Saturday, October 5th. Number two is Swift Rockford International Festival, scheduled for Sunday, October 20th. Place those two up for passage. Thank you. So you have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman.
 Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll move to finance and personnel. And just a reminder that I'm holding three and four to the end of the meeting so that we can deal with all the casino items all at once. Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have an awarded bid for playground for Fairgrounds Pace Center Site to Woodfield Homes of Rockford in the amount of $74,930. And I have acceptance of grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and solicit bids to provide firefighters with comprehensive medical...
 Medic physicals behavioral health screening and cancer screenings the federal share of the grant is seventy four thousand five hundred fifty five dollars And the local match is seven thousand four hundred fifty five dollars for a total of eighty two thousand ten dollars The city's match will be paid from the fire department operating budget. I place those two items up for passage Thank you Alderman Beck. So we have two items before you are there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion on those two items clerk. Will you please call the roll? jerky
 Yes. Brini. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up we have new business. We have nothing under Planning and Development Committee. I believe the two items underneath the Code and Regulation Committee are going to be held to the end.
 I'm sorry that three items under the Code and Regulation Committee will be held to the end Next up we have Finance and Personnel Committee Item one is up for passage. Oh, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Thank you. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you I have an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming at 126 North Madison Avenue. I placed that ordinance up for passage. I
 Thank you. You have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. 12 ayes.
 Thank you. So that item moves or is passed. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the Head Start budget revision in the amount of $7,272 for the purchase of a Welch Allen spot vision screener. I have an ordinance approving the submission of an application for transportation alternative program funds.
 I have an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Illinois Department of Health Care and Family Services and the Rockford Fire Department in connection with enhanced ambulance rates. I have an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the County of Winnebago and the Winnebago County Emergency Telephone Systems Board for 911 call taking. And I have an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county...
 of Winnebago for animal services and after number two it says suspend rule 15 is that yes we need to suspend I'm going to ask for suspension of rule 15 on item two we have a motion and second all those in favor of suspending rule 15 for item number two say aye aye those opposed same sign okay the item will rules will be suspended okay then I will place all five of those items up for passage
 Thank you. So we have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Gasparini. Tunberg. Hervey. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli.
 Item number 1, 12 ayes. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item number 3, 12 ayes. Item number 4, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 5, 8 ayes, 4 noes. Excellent. So those items pass. So next up, we are going to move and transition into our discussion regarding the casino development for the City of Rockford. And I'd ask that our consultants and team come forward at this time.
 Surprised we still have so many people in the audience usually at this point in our meetings people are gone We must have a big item on the agenda. We meet here every Monday at 530 So first to the City Council, I just want to say Sincere, thank you for your patience and trusting the process that we set forth at the beginning of this I
 Development I think I also want to thank you for supporting the idea of bringing in outside Consultants to help us through this initiative in this development process. I believe that they have served the city incredibly admirably
 and some microphone doesn't like us. But I believe our consultants have done a tremendous job in advocating on behalf of the city of Rockford and all of our citizens. The second thing I want to mention is more directed to our city staff, and I hope to the aldermen and to the public,
 Our city team has been asked to do something in an incredibly short amount of time. That is a complex project, and I just want to say a sincere thank you to our city staff. You look at the items that we've pushed out that are kind of, quote-unquote, our regular items from our budget animal services contract.
 9-1-1 contract the GEMT item that you voted on tonight domestic violence items and initiatives we push forward over the last 90 days and on top of this to have this complex project that is time-consuming I think it really speaks to the caliber of employees that we have and I think as aldermen as citizens we should be really proud of the citizens who are working on behalf of us at the City of Rockford and
 So without further ado, I want to hand it over to one of our consultants, which is a local attorney, Bobby holds worth. Who's done a really wonderful job of facilitating this process for all of us. Thank you, mayor. I too want to thank the city staff team. They've been great. They've worked very, very hard through this process. And as we know, it's very, it's been very fast and very detailed and very time consuming. And I believe they've done a really a fabulous job.
 This evening, I'd simply like to introduce the consultants that have worked with us from the gaming industry. You know, one of the first things that we realized when we got the casino team together was that we needed expert help.
 And I believe that we have gotten the best. We've been extraordinarily pleased with the advice and the counsel that we have gotten. So to my immediate left is Bill Alsup from Union Gaming, which helped us understand the numbers and the feasibility of the proposals that were being made. To Bill's left is Sid Froelich and Kim Kopp from the Taft Law Firm.
 Think between them we have somewhere between I don't know 50 and maybe more years of experience in the gaming industry and it's really very very impressive to all of us to see them work and to hear just how much they know about the industry and What is common and what we can expect and to help us assess the proposals that came in So thank you all very much and they are all available for questions from from council tonight. I
 The other thing I'd just simply like to do before turning it over, I think, to Sid and Kim for a few comments, is to remind the council, I know you've heard this before, but to remind you that we are asking you to certify a number of things because those certifications have to go to the Illinois Gaming Board with any application that would be filed with that board. There are six things that the council needs to certify.
 The first is that the applicant with respect to any application. The first is that the applicant has negotiated with the city in good faith. Second, that there is agreement regarding the permanent location. Third, that there is agreement regarding a temporary location. Fourth, that there is agreement with respect to revenue sharing.
 Fifth, that there is agreement with respect to zoning and other matters within the jurisdiction of the city. And then finally, that the council has passed a resolution in support of the casino here in the city. So those are the things that we'll ultimately be asking you to certify so that an application or one or more applications could go down to Springfield.
 And at this point, I'd like to turn it over to Sid and Kim for some comments on the process and where we are today. Thank you, Bobbie. Taft is a firm of 600 lawyers in the Midwest. Kim and I and several other partners at the firm practice probably 70, 80% of our time in the casino related industry. Everything from representing states to municipalities. Our work is throughout the entire country.
 We assist local government, which is typically finding a new casino being proposed in their jurisdiction, in evaluating proposals, which are real, which aren't, which are financeable, which aren't, which are going to deliver the things that they propose, et cetera. And then the second part of our job is to negotiate all of those items that the developers propose into an agreement. So we want to make sure that whatever it is they propose is actually built, whatever it is they talk about in terms of jobs, the jobs actually show up and the like. Thank you.
 So that's our principle function. What we tried to do is assess the reasonableness of each of the proposals to make sure that they were workable for the city of Rockford, one, and two, that after they were workable here that they could be passed by the IGB. The IGB has a set of criteria that are set forth in the statute that says that they have to be financially viable.
 Which really means, are these financeable? How standard is the financing? Is it strange financing or is it the type of financing you typically see in a casino? Is it going to achieve the goals that the IGB demands and the state statute demands concerning workforce, concerning minority employment, et cetera? So our job was to try to make sure those fit here, that they were delivered, in fact, to Rockford, and that they had a chance of passing at the IGB and being found suitable so that the casino actually could get built here.
 So that's our principal function. And then I think we'll turn it over to staff to walk through the recommendation. I guess one thing I did want to remind, because I'm not sure everyone of us, I'm not sure I said this, is that the certification that we need from council needs to happen relatively soon because applications need to be filed with the Gaming Board by October 25. And so we have a few short weeks to get this done. Thank you.
 Mr. Traylor? Just wanted to add one thing. Bill's firm, Union Gaming, was engaged by the city principally to assist in determining the financial feasibility of these projects. They're investment bankers.
 They perform studies on the reasonableness of projections and the like. And they have a good sense of the marketplace because they take deals to the marketplace. So one of the big functions that Bill's firm did, United Gaming, which is one of four or five like this in the country, is give us advice on this deal's normal, it's financeable, it can work, and it's reasonable. So I just wanted to make mention of that so that Bill didn't have to say it. Thank you. Thank you. We'll then move to Mr. Cagnone.
 Thank you, Your Honor. As we begin our discussion tonight, I would echo the mayor's comments in regards to both thanking the applicants for their submittals and work on our RFPs, as well as the city council for their patience through this process, as well as our conversations and guidance to ensure that we have all the information as we make a decision. And ultimately, this is a decision of city council.
 As Bob stated, we have a deadline collectively of October 25th when a licensed proposer needs to submit to the Illinois Gaming Board. We will not be asking for a vote this evening. Understanding the amount of information that we're providing and the questions you might have and give you the opportunity to absorb information.
 the staff report and information that we're providing earlier today and this evening. We hope to be able to take final action on the matter a week from tonight at the October 7th meeting.
 As you're aware, we had three responses to our request for proposals for a casino. Much of that has been provided in advance, both in the document that staff provided on September 23rd as well as at the public hearing. And just as a short and brief summary, one proposal was from Hard Rock, another one from Gorman & Company, and another one from Forest City Casino.
 We have collectively reviewed all those proposals on a high level. The Hard Rock proposal has a casino manager from Seminole Hard Rock International LLC. They also have a temporary casino location at Giovanni's and a permanent location at the former Clock Tower site. That's approximately 25 acres in size.
 The Gorman & Company currently does not have an operator and will comment a little bit further in regards to the current status in that process when we go through the staff report. The location of both the temporary and permanent facility is 650 Grace Street in downtown Rockford. And then the third applicant, Four City Casino.
 Their casino manager is Merritt Management Group. The property is 136 acres on I-90 and East Riverside just south of the Mercy Hospital. Their temporary facility and their permanent facility are both proposed at that same location. However, I would state that they had had conversations in seeking other temporary locations as they were going through this process.
 Certainly, as we walk through the staff report and recommendation, our review of these proposals was based on our industry experts, both from TAFT and Union Gaming, as well as internal review from our department heads, as well as external professionals in various categories.
 And just as an executive summary, when we reviewed the Gorman & Company proposal, it's an attractive development in downtown and we share a number of the goals within the proposal. However, as we look at the solidifying casino operator, and because it has not been confirmed, we felt that it was unlikely that the candidate would get a license from the Illinois Gaming Board.
 Additionally, when we reviewed the four city proposal, number of several attractive features, obviously 136 acres, a number of off casino developments that would be included in their proposal.
 However, when we went through their total financing, the proposal did not contemplate $46 million of expenses associated with the casino. Given this lack of detail regarding sources of debt, equity funding, and incomplete data, there's significant risk that financing for the casino hotel project may be unavailable
 at this time and a number of those additional features did not have secured deals or permanent financing currently in place.
 When we reviewed the Hard Rock proposal, we felt that it was the strongest and most complete proposal. Its financing structure is credible. The Hard Rock proposal includes realistic and sustainable minimum gambling tax guarantees, along with additional revenue sharing payments to offset impacts to the city. Hard Rock has agreed to payment of a minimum of $7 million of gambling taxes and admission fees payable to the city and additional revenue sharing
 that would offset additional impacts and expenses that the city may incur for the casino proposal based on those analysis the hard rock proposal has the greatest guarantee for long-term benefits to the city of rockford and therefore staff recommends certification of this proposal to the igb and only one proposal to the igb
 get into a little bit further detail as it relates to the capital investment of the Hard Rock proposal. It's approximately $311 million, including license fees, financing costs, and capitalized interest.
 The project includes construction of the Hard Rock branded casino with several bars and restaurants including the Hard Rock Cafe, a 1600 seat entertainment venue, state-of-the-art sports book, and a Hard Rock branded retail shop. The casino will showcase memorabilia of Hard Rock, Rick Nielsen, guitarist of the band Cheap Trick. If the market warrants it, Hard Rock proposes to construct a hotel adjacent to the casino in phase two. I want to be clear that the hotel is part of phase two.
 Hard Rock estimates year five gross gaming revenues of approximately $225 million, the highest of the three respondents, and Hard Rock submitted a feasibility study conducted by the Innovation Group along with Response supporting this projection.
 You know, when you look at the overall timing of the proposal, Hard Rock has indicated that because they have secured their lease on a temporary casino, the temporary casino could open approximately three months from obtaining a license from the IGB. We believe that this is a critical component in regards to the revenue that the city would collect as well as the threat of additional casinos in nearby communities, specifically those outside of the state of Illinois.
 A summary of the payments made to the city is within this exhibit probably the best summary without the words would be exhibit A2. It sets forth the payments. I think it's also important to note that the Hard Rock response to the RFP has committed $1 million over three years to the Rockford Park District for capital improvements and additional $1.5 million over 10 years for operating program. That is a part of their proposal.
 Hard Rock has estimated approximately 1,200 jobs for construction and permanent casino jobs of approximately 1,000. As we've gone through the process of reviewing the proposal with Hard Rock, we've had a number of discussions related to the importance of workforce development as well as transportation. These details have been committed by the Hard Rock proposal.
 you know because of the these attractive strength attractive strengths um including the credible financing commitments an experienced casino operator worldwide brand recognition including access to a significant player database and player reward program speed to the market as it relates to the temporary casino and the shovel ready permanent location and significant revenue sharing to the city we have recommended approval of this
 We would identify that there are some weaknesses in this proposal. The Phase 2 hotel is not a commitment of the first phase. That would come after the fact upon proper financing and possible competition with local entertainment venues with the 1,600-seat facility. So I'd ask you to go to A2 of the exhibits.
 I'll give you a moment to get there. If everyone is there, I'll walk through the payments to the city. Look under category 1, the temporary casino payments. Hard Rock has agreed to 15 percent of net income of temporary casino earned in the first 12-month period of operations paid to the city. They've also agreed to a minimum floor of $1.82 million.
 So it's possible that that 15% will exceed the 1.82, but the city of Rockford will get no less than 1.82 million. Additionally, 5% of the net income for the temporary casino earned each 12-month period after that first 12-month period has a minimum payment of 1.07 million to the city of Rockford. Once the permanent casino...
 is up and operating, the payments would be 1% of the adjusted gross revenue paid to the City for the first two years of operations and a half a percent of AGR paid to the City each year of operations thereafter. We're estimating that number for 1% at approximately 1.3, a half a percent at $600,000 annually.
 We anticipated as outlined in item number three that those revenues could be utilized to offset Any costs that the city may incur related to the operation of casino that could include police fire domestic violence and human trafficking office marketing and coordinating with rave Expenditures an amount of no less than 150 000 annually to support development high risk and low economic growth neighborhoods as approved by city council
 815 Hard Rock Foundation or similar name the respondent would have Rights of consulting in regards to how the marketing in coordination with rave CVB dollars would be spent but I would note that That all these dollars are subject to the review and approval of City Council of How much money is?
 designated toward each one of these categories. Additionally, the structure of the 815 Hard Rock Foundation would include nine members, four members from city council, two from each caucus, two members from Hard Rock, and three individuals that are mutually agreed upon from the four city council members and the two Hard Rock individuals.
 Similar to the other point in regards to how the City Council may choose to appropriate the monies from the temporary casino payments and the permanent casino payments dollars that are Designated from the foundation to not-for-profit interest would be subject to City Council approval exception of small amounts of dollars that may be utilized throughout the community
 In addition to the revenues outlined under the temporary casino payments and the permanent casino payments,
 The respondent, Hard Rock, has agreed to guarantee Rockford's receipt of $7 million per year from its local share of gaming taxes and admission fees, provided that no new casino within 50-mile radius of Rockford Casino, no increase in state or local gaming taxes, no online only gaming permitted in-state games,
 Online tied to a bricks and mortar casino is permitted no increase in VGTs Video gaming terminals in the city of Rockford of more than 30% from the number that currently exists This would allow for opportunity for those individuals that take advantage of the sixth VGT within their operation to add it as well as additional growth and
 within the city for additional restaurants that might have video gaming that city council approves. Additionally, the city will agree to negotiating in good faith a subordination of the guaranteed portion to respond at senior secured lender if required by Hard Rock senior secured lender. This is pretty similar to what we've done in other development agreements related to subordination.
 We recommend and support Hard Rock's zoning application that was acted on by the codes and regulations this evening and support Hard Rock's liquor license application to serve alcohol for the time permitted by the IGA. Because this property is located in the Enterprise Zone, we wanted to ensure that the City of Rockford wasn't providing subsidy.
 outside of what we've negotiated related to the proposed development. So there's provisions within the host development agreement that should the developer qualify and developer make application to the zone administrator for building materials sales tax exemption,
 payment would be made to the city of Rockford equal to 2% of the actual cost of building materials or otherwise stated the sales tax the city would have otherwise received minus the administration fee assessed by the city of Rockford fee schedule. Developer acknowledges that the local property tax abatements will not be accessible for commercial developments in the Enterprise Zone I-90.
 That would be a general summary of all three proposals, as well as a more detailed explanation as it relates to the recommendation to certify hard rock.
 With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions as well as certainly our full staff team and consultants are available to answer questions. And if you would like me to go into more detail on the other two proposals, I would be happy to do that as well. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE O' Alderman Beach. MR. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Todd. If you just would help me understand again here.
 We were told initially that there'd be a split some goes to the county some goes to loves park Of the numbers you gave the council tonight like that guarantee is 7 million. Is that a number separate from another number? That's the split So the numbers that we presented tonight would be what the city would receive. So the state statute sets forth. Uh, You know
 Gaming tax distribution gaming tax and admission fee distribution 70% of the city or the city rock would receive 70% loves Park Chesney Park the county and others received the other 30% the seven million dollar Guarantee is a guarantee that would come to the city of Rockford. They have one follow-up, please sir. Of course um
 Is that guarantee from the results of this casino or is that a guarantee from the corporate office? Not certain if I understand the question but let me try and answer it. That would be a guarantee that would be in our host community agreement approved by the City of Rockford and Hard Rock. So it comes from the proposer which you know includes the applicant.
 Any other follow-ups, Alderman Beach? I'm fine now, thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kellett? In regards to the $7 million, is that a one-time payment, or how long will that last? And you're saying it's from fees? Yes.
 This is not counting the 1%, 5% that is split amongst the municipalities. This $7 million is additional dollars, and how long will we receive that $7 million, or is it one shot? So that's an excellent question, and I apologize that we didn't clarify that, but that would be annual. Thank you. Follow-up, Your Honor? Of course. Also, there was...
 First of all, I want to thank the consultants for answering my questions. I do appreciate it. Not understanding what you were doing and explaining things, I do appreciate that. But I'm still the public interest.
 has misunderstood as well as I did when it came to employment and the employment at the casinos. We were told, or the public was told, that the jobs would be full-time with benefits. Not all the jobs are full-time with benefits. That's something that needs to be cleared up with all the proposals that we received.
 I can certainly begin to answer. Miss Sid also wants to comment, just so you're aware. Okay. I'll defer to Sid and then I'll fill in. He had started explaining it to me but we ran out of time. What we did is unfortunately we listed all the jobs that were available in the casino and the schedule you're referring to Alderman, Alderman. Doesn't matter. I apologize. And then we indicated that there were going to be full time benefits.
 All of the casinos end up in a situation where I'm going to give you some numbers that are approximate. Of the 1,200 jobs that the typical casino has, in excess of 800 are full time jobs with full time benefits. Full time benefits would be the salary plus the benefits would be approximately $51,000 as the average compensation per employee.
 The other 300 to 400, and each proposal was a little off here and there. The other 300 to 400 positions would be part time positions that would be paid hourly plus tips but no fringe benefits. So I apologize for the impression we created. It's, we kind of conflated the two numbers, but I would say that on average 800, 850, I think one of the proposals was probably closer to 900 full time.
 Full pay full fringe benefit positions. So we'll correct that record here and we'll make sure it's corrected and thank you for pointing that out I apologize Thank you. I believe alderman McNeely and then I'll come back over to Alderman Herbie. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. My question is well County and the two suburbs be required to to maintain the restrictions and
 same restrictions that are given to the cities those restrictions being No new casino within 50 mile radius. No increase in state or local gaming No online gaming no increase in PGTs, etc Well the county and the two suburbs be Required to follow those same restrictions because they're getting they're splitting 30% Mr. Frayler
 I'll defer to Sid. You know it's a typical request as I understand it and when you have such a term, understanding the risk that those four issues create and that would allow Hard Rock to open up discussions should any one of those four take place. But this agreement is between the City of Rockford and Hard Rock, not the suburbs or the county.
 So then we're placed at a disadvantage if we're required to maintain these restrictions in the suburbs and the county or not So I'm gonna ask Ms. Kopp to respond I think I can shed some light on what your question is under the statute is where the sharing is between the city the county and the other entities Loves Park and so forth
 and those statutory payments or stay those statutory payments we cannot change them they're all going to be paid and split the way that we're supposed to be split i didn't refer to the payments excuse me oh okay i was referring to the restrictions
 that are outlined that the city has to follow. Right, and those restrictions only apply to our $7 million guarantee. What Todd had read to you was the restrictions that apply only to our $7 million. So the statutory payments stay the same. What we have, however, is a guarantee to the City of Rockford that they will get from those payments at least $7 million annually.
 provided none of those things occur. So under the current statute, I might add, neither the county nor the suburbs can have a casino, one. Two, it would be almost inconceivable that the state would permit something that close, you know, within the 50-mile radius, to have another casino. What it's really referring to is Beloit.
 Hard Rock was apprehensive that if Beloit gets on line too quickly, it's going to be a formidable competitor potentially. So that's really what it's intended to do. The other is theoretically possible, but practically speaking, won't happen.
 Thank you. Thank you any other follow-up alderman McNeely Thank you, your honor Just for clarification all Thompson Kelly had a question Earlier, but that I believe I responded to but I want to make sure that I answered it in full Shit, you know whether
 I want to make sure I understood the question, but I think the question was, is the $7 million guarantee related to taxes and admission fees in addition to the revenue sharing as it relates to the temporary casino and the permanent casino, the 1% and half percent? And yes, they're two separate.
 revenue sources. So there's the $7 million guarantee, which would be received, and the 1% and half a percent on the permanent casino. Thank you. And Alderman Herbia had your hand raised, correct? Yes. Several questions. With regard to this guarantee, it's...
 The $7 million is guaranteed to Rockford provided that these four conditions do not occur. I guess my question is, why isn't it stated within, I mean, these four things could occur with no decrease in the casino's revenue. That's entirely possible.
 you know they build a casino in bell in beloit nobody likes it they just don't go up there for whatever reason um we don't control most of these factors either the state uh can increase its its gaming taxes and this says gaming it doesn't apply to the video gaming term terminals only this seems to be all gaming i don't see why the developer should have an interest in those items um
 the video gaming terminals yes we do control that and i see how that's relevant but online only gaming in the state i don't know if that's up under some kind of
 legislation or not, but Rockford doesn't control the majority of these things. But if they occur, we could be forced into a reduction in our amount under a new deal, regardless of what their income is. So I'd love for it to say based on
 the impact on their income. If it cut their income in half, I wouldn't argue that point. Thank you. And Mr. Fralick? Yes, sir. The host community agreement has a provision that says if these things occur, we will reopen negotiations on the guarantee. I can pretty well assure you that if the revenues didn't drop, we would not be agreeing to drop the guarantee. And I don't think Hard Rock would be demanding a drop in the guarantee if the revenues were the same.
 The practical answer is that if Beloit opens up, just down the street 17 miles, it will have an impact on this casino.
 The hard rock people and most people in the industry believe that the real test here is to get that first casino open more quickly. Establish brand loyalty, establish that this is the place you want to go to, and minimize the impact that a casino like that will have. But I think anybody in the industry would tell you that if it comes, and it's not assured that it will come, it will negatively impact our revenues.
 It's just a fact of life. Okay. All right. You know. My other questions have to do with the workforce.
 The question's been raised, I've been asked several times, will any of the casino operators be using a temporary workforce for a significant, and by significant I mean over 5% of their workforce, where people are hired through temporary agencies and are not permanent employees of the place? It sounded as though Hard Rock does not engage in that practice. I want to know whether they will.
 And I want to know whether the others will too, because it impacts my decision. And let me just give a little background on that. I've often called it the second set of slavery. I do not like it.
 I've watched some of the young people in Rockford, particularly African American youth, cycle through these temp agencies over and over and over. They can never get a permanent foot in the door. If they get injured on the job, their workers' comp payments are usually so low they lose their apartments. It's a despicable, in my own opinion, thing. So I want to know if 5 percent or more of their workforce will be
 procured through temporary employment agencies? And the second, what efforts can or will they make to ensure minority, and by that I mean African American, employment in the construction
 their casino given that the city has put a project labor agreement in the the RFP and says that a condition and I want to talk to the city about that but that a condition of our agreement is that they will agree to a project labor agreement in Rockford because the unions are damp
 The unions are almost all white. That pretty much guarantees an all-white workforce. And we've been here before. We've been there with the jail. We've been there with the hospital. We've been there with almost every large public employment construction job. And we're promised that our youth will have some apprenticeships, and it never materializes. Once the promise is made and people get what they want, it disappears.
 I want to know what their position will be and how they will impact and ensure that we will attain Get those apprenticeships. They can answer the the part-time full-time situation, but I think I'll defer to Todd on the construction, I think the Permanent positions are going to be as I said roughly eight to nine hundred per casino full-time Okay, eight hundred of those
 So full time, full time, the balance and for instance, hard rock casino is estimating that they will have altogether somewhere around 1200 employees. So there'll be two, 300 part-time employees. So about those part-time and we're going to be full time. Pardon? Two thirds of them are going to be full time. Yes, ma'am. And then, and I'm assuming those will be hard rock employees. Yes.
 Yes, ma'am. And the others will be Hard Rock employees. They are not hired through temporary agencies because every employee that works in the casino or casino related has to be approved by the Illinois Gaming Board. So they typically don't hire through agencies, but they are part-time employees, no question of that. So you could have in the higher end number, 900, you could have 300.
 part-time employees that don't have the full fringe benefits. That is correct. That's an industry average, more or less, in this industry because...
 Because that's just the way the numbers have worked out all over the place. In terms of minority involvement, as you know, the host community agreement has very substantial goals. Reporting mechanics, monitoring mechanics, and enforcement mechanics to make sure that the goal that the state has set forth on minority employment and persons with disability employment are met.
 what you try to do is you try to take a look at the community the overall community and you try to hit the same numbers or better that the community has so that i i hope that gives you a feel for what this host community agreement is going to say on the pla i'll let todd answer that because he's got much more experience with the topic than i do
 so it is accurate that the rfp included a project labor agreement we felt that was consistent with the support and desire of the state when the legislation was approved additionally the pla gives us the opportunity to engage the union in regards to the overall goals that we would like to accomplish related to construction and engaging our entire community our residents including our minority and women
 I'm sorry, how does it do that if you look at the minority components of our unions currently and historically? This is not something that's new or just happened at one time. That situation has existed in Rockford for decades.
 And it's purposeful and intentional. And just to be fair, some of the unions have made strides. I have to give props to the IBEW. They have a number of minority apprentices that they have been working with, and there's been some outreach on the part of a couple of others. But there are others, historically, you can't even calculate a percentage of African American people within their union.
 Want to know how we're gonna deal with that. Maybe I need to ask that question of the city and not of the Casino people but I want to make sure there's something in there with teeth to it because I don't intend to sit through another one of these and
 So certainly it is a high priority of the administration and the city council to accomplish the goals that you are stating. We're happy to engage you in the conversation as we go through the host community agreement as well as the requirements so that we can be successful and that we're heading down the right path. I'm sorry. No, no. You had follow up? Yes. Okay, great.
 Um, with regard to, I'm sorry, I was making little scratches in here as we went along. Um, the city certification, what is the closing date that that certification or resolution, however it's packaged, has to be before the Illinois, or delivered to the Illinois Gaming Board? So the date that it has to be delivered to the Illinois Gaming Board is October 25th, but certainly we want to give the winning proposal the opportunity and time to put together their information.
 as possible okay do we have any plans with city staff once we do select and vote on the casino developer that we're going to be embracing do we have plans for some kind of meeting or something where we can get to know some of the principles and
 We could certainly reach out to whoever wins the proposal and arrange a time that Alderman could meet with the proposer and potential investors for sure. Okay. That's all. So I had Alderman Rose, who has not asked a question, and I'll go to Alderman Thompson-Kelly and then back to Alderman Beach. Did the other casinos have a project? Not that I'm aware of. I don't obviously speak for them, but I know after the type of funders and type of bidders,
 he gets tons of help as a part of that work that he does. He wants to. He wants people that represent our city. So I don't think it's fair to say that a project leader doesn't. The means by which we move forward, because not only him, I know the Carpenters. I know Jake Costanza. All of these guys have taken it on themselves.
 their backs to kind of fight what's happened in the past. You're right. Historically, it's been tough for unions. But you also have to meet basic requirements. And they're working with those inner city youth. I just don't think it's fair to, you know, label unions as a minority.
 Race racially motivated organization. They want the best people as a part of their unions and they're actively trying to get minorities. People can't be the best people. Hold on. I'm talking. They're actively recruiting it and if you talk to Greg, he'll say, you know, I went to Roosevelt.
 I want kids from Roosevelt. I want kids from the inner city. And so I just, I don't think it's fair to paint that picture locally to our unions with the work that they're trying to do. Thank you. Next up is Alderman Thompson-Kelly. I have a couple more questions. Number one, in the public meeting, it was brought out that there is still some mechanical and leans on the clock tower property.
 Number two, I'd like to know is why we're only recommending one instead of two. And number three, could you expand upon the $46 million from the one proposal and how you, how, what explanation they gave for the $46 million short? Did I understand that correctly?
 and also is did haven't uh hard rock had casinos to start closing i don't know if that information is correct so you asked a host of questions so one of the the one i'll address is why we are choosing one and i would say uh
 one we believe that hard rock has by far the most thorough and complete proposal that has been delivered to the city uh two we believe that each of the other proposals have some fairly glaring weaknesses three we believe that the greatest likelihood for the city of roford to get a casino is with hard rock
 And four, I would say many of us have talked for long periods of time of making decisions right here with us and Rockford making the decisions and not having other bodies make those decisions. And I think this is one of those opportunities that we get to decide what we would like.
 There was a host of other questions, though, so I'll hand those off to Tom. So, you know, let me add to the mayor's comments slightly, and then I would like to defer some of that evaluation to our consultants.
 Understanding, you know, that's why we brought them in to help us and participate in this process understanding that they have vast knowledge and experience in industry and how these proposals are Evaluated is critically important to the overall success but
 But, you know, when you look within our staff recommendation, you know, we have identified a number of weaknesses and strengths from both proposals. And when we look at the Gorman proposal, we would recognize on September 27th, which was Friday, Gorman submitted a nonbinding letter.
 of intent by which an entity not affiliated with Gorman would consider assuming the role of applicant and operator. The LOI does not provide a sufficient basis for assessing the viability of the proposal or the financial proposal for addressing adverse impacts. To date, therefore, the City has been unable to engage in good faith negotiations with Gorman for a host of community.
 And, you know, those important weaknesses include execution risk related because of a lack of a committed casino operator. We're concerned that the proposal will not be executed. Financial risk in regards to potential debt and equity, financial plan to date hasn't been submitted and we do not have the opportunity to fully review it. Operating risk, although Gorman's development team has significant development expertise,
 They have not demonstrated experience in development and operation of a casino. Additionally, Gorman does not have access to an established player database and reward program. Therefore, there's significant risk that a casino will not be properly developed and operated and maintained. And, you know, because of those...
 Weakness is there's a revenue sharing risk due to the execution, financing and operating risk. The city's ability to receive any such suggested revenue sharing or impact payment is unlikely. Again when we reviewed the four city proposal, obviously it's a large track of property,
 beyond the phase one casino and hotel But when we review those weaknesses For city states that it has committed partners for most of the components of the project For city has provided various forms of documentation But did not provide evidence that each component was fully committed or that financing for each component was committed
 When we talked about the financial concerns, Alderman, that you raised in regards to the $46.5 million in cost, the budget for the casino hotel project fails to include two key components, the gaming position fee of $17,500 per gaming position, which is approximately $31.5 million,
 in the fifteen million upfront reconciliation fee each owed to the state therefore the budget number that was reference was forty six and a half million dollars in cost there's also some concerns related to the commitment and evidence of full financing uh... for the project uh... we've outlined operating risk related to for city has not engaged a branded casino operator where hard rock
 clearly has identified that and then the delayed opening date of six to nine months is longer than the two other proposals and I'd like to loop back to Sid to provide a little bit more thought on any of that related to your question but specifically the commitment and evidence letter
 Sure. I'll back up on one step. You asked the question about what liens are on the property, the Clocktower property. A lawsuit was filed by the current owners against the prior owners saying that certain things weren't as they were supposed to be at the closing. They're significant, but it's, we're talking about hundreds of thousands of dollars, not millions. That buyer then slapped a lien on the property saying they didn't pay him the full amount.
 One, the amount in controversy within the context of this transaction is very small. It's in the $200,000, $300,000, $400,000 category. I don't remember off the top of my head.
 We inquired, we looked at the papers. The case could go away tomorrow if Hard Rock, or frankly, if the owners of the property, the individual owners of the property wanted to, they could drop the case tomorrow, it'd be over. So the only reason the liens are there is because the buyer, trying to get even for being sued, put a lien on it. And the lien is in that amount of the few hundred thousand dollars. So our view of it is not a big deal.
 can be resolved in two minutes if we need to uh we chose not to instruct hard rock to make it go away because we didn't want them spending money that in our view looked like they didn't have to spend that they were in the right and the other side was in the wrong now you know i'm not a judge so it could end up going the other way but it's not going to impede the project in any way number two i would say that with reference to uh following up on todd
 I think that the problem Forest City had is they decided that they were going to go ahead and build this development, bought the land, everything was getting ready to roll, and all of a sudden they saw this casino legislation pass at the last second. Frankly, they ran out of time.
 I think had they had several more months, which unfortunately the statute didn't give them, they could well have put the deal together because it's a cool deal. It's got a lot of big stuff that goes with it. Unfortunately, because of the timeline, we had to be absolutely certain that the money was in fact committed. The commitments they made that they have the money
 basically said we think we have the money, but we're still negotiating with some people to get additional money. So it was a commitment that is not the standard form of commitment you see on Wall Street. In deference to them, they went a long way in a period of 33 days. And if they had another month, they might have made it. If they had another few weeks, maybe they would have made it. But what we had at that time just wasn't there.
 They had an operator that was an operator for a period of time and they said they were still looking for a permanent operator. You know, if you don't have a permanent operator, it's real hard to find certain types of conventional financing. They sort of go hand in hand. So I think, you know, there were a couple problems with it that if it had gotten farther along maybe it would have worked, but in the time frame we had under the statute, it was too risky. That's the real bottom line. The risk with Hard Rock wasn't there.
 Forest City was there and Gorman just didn't get close enough to get to the deal. So one I think we're we're excited about Hard Rock because we think it's a heck of a brand I think it's a great name.
 The other way to look at it is the other two didn't get there and Hard Rock did get there. It's a matter of perspective of how you want to view it, but that's really the bottom line. The other two just didn't quite get there. They didn't have the same form of commitment financially and for operators that Hard Rock did and you would have been taking a real chance with them. Might have come through, maybe, and maybe the IGB would say, okay, I'll let it slide and we'll see what happens.
 But that didn't seem to be a warranted risk because the legislation doesn't permit for a do-over. It says this is your one shot, though. That's the basis of the recommendation we came up with. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Any other follow-ups, Alderman Thompson-Teller? I'm not right now. Okay. And I believe Alderman Beach had his hand, and then I'll go to Alderman Quinonez, and then Alderman Turner. It looks like you've had some conversation with Rave or BMO. Are they satisfied with...
 with what you've written down here? Because I'd imagine if you build this 1600 seat theater out there, you're going to use it probably all the time. It's not going to be 20 events a year. And so that could have some effect, although I'm hearing that there might be some cooperation between Hard Rock and BMO, other than money. Is that true?
 So that would be an accurate statement. You know, clearly we had identified a weakness of the hard rock proposal is the actual or appearance of competition to the facilities that Rave operates. You know, they have agreed to work with us in those regards. In regards to your question, has Rave agreed to the proposal? No.
 I can't say that they've agreed or objected to the proposal, although we have been in communication with their point of contact and made them aware of where we currently stand with the recommendation and how it's coming forward to City Council.
 Thank you, Todd. Thank you, sir. Any other follow-up, Alderman Beasley? No. Next, we'll move to Alderman Quinones. Yes. My question is, I do like to see minority employees working out there, but what is Hard Rock saying about vendors, minority vendors in the city of Rockford? Are they working on that or going to give us a percentage of...
 said i'll move that back to you sure uh the the draft of the hca has a provision that says first
 We want to use local vendors, and we want to use minority local vendors. We want to use persons with disabilities, local vendors. So we've got an amount that we're negotiating currently as to what portion of the goods, not slot machines because the slot machines are sold nationally, no one makes them in Rockford obviously. But for the other goods, we're negotiating currently a dollar amount and or a percentage of goods bought on a yearly basis will be bought from minorities and locally.
 But we're still negotiating that item. Part of the data is they don't have all the data on Rockford businesses yet, so they're pulling it currently. They don't want to agree to something they can't comply with. We're pulling our own data together to give it to them and try to come up with an agreement on the topic. So the line is provided for, the paragraph is in the HCA, but the dollar amount or the percentage is blank right now. We'll get there in the next few days, I think.
 Alderman Quinones, did you have any follow-up? No, that's it. Okay, thank you. Next I'll move to Alderman Tunberg and then Alderman Chiarelli. In follow-up to Alderman Beach, yes, if we could make every best effort to include Alderman Beach and myself in any discussions with the agreement with Rave and Hard Rock, that'd be great as far as the Coronado, since we're both representing the city on the Rave board.
 The no increase in state or local gaming taxes, when it comes to local gaming taxes, it would fall on us to be able to be in control of that. But on the state, my question would be, I think one of the challenges that we face living in our great state, Illinois, is that sometimes there is a, they haven't seen a tax they haven't loved. How often, if ever, or when the last time was it that they did increase?
 the gaming tax? The state of Illinois does not have a great track record on moving its taxes up and down on the gaming side. Maybe on any side, but certainly on the gaming side.
 This current bill is viewed as extremely high taxes. I think the legislature has gotten so much pushback on it that there are some communities that expected to have five, six, and seven potential developers show up. Danville looks like it's going to end up with two. Many commentators thought it was going to have five or six, and it's directly as a result of the high taxes. I think that...
 10 years ago before this current tax rate, you would have probably seen three, four, five more developers coming into Rockford because I was around 10 years ago when one of the legislations passed but Governor Quinn didn't sign it and there was significant interest. I would say to you that right now, I don't envision the legislature, current legislature raising taxes because it's about at the point where if you push it much higher, it just becomes uneconomical for the hard rocks of the world.
 They have to have a return on investment for their, in their case, the tribe, and other people's case, shareholders. You raise just a little bit more, you're not going to get that return, and you're not going to have anybody show up. Classic example, city of Chicago. They slapped another third of a tax on there. One-third of the gaming revenues is taxed. Can't get a developer to show up. Can't get a financier to show up. It's a non-economic deal. So right now, I would say, I don't think there's much of a likelihood that the taxes will be increased. Okay. Thank you.
 tricky yeah please um also as far as the uh the license the operator license just to clear the air uh forest city does have an operator that is correct is it merit yeah correct so it is correct okay um and gorman does not correct we're right here right here in the office
 They submitted, I believe, a letter of intent on Friday that we received. So I think, you know, as we review these three proposals... And, sir, you'll be, if you're asked a question, you can answer it, but you just can't step up. I'm not an existing operator you referred to this morning. Wonderful. Thank you so much.
 So as I mentioned and stated within our staff report, we did receive a letter on September 27th from Gorman submitting a non-binding letter of intent by which an entity not affiliated with Gorman would consider assuming the role of applicant and operator. The LOI does not provide a sufficient basis for assessing the viability of the proposal or the financial proposal for addressing adverse impacts.
 So that is correct. We have stated that there is not an operator as it relates to responding to the request for proposals that we had published. And certainly I'll rely on Sid to add any commentary that he would like to that. I think Todd said it right. It's a non-binding letter of intent, number one. Number two, it suggests changing the current applicant
 which was required to be filed by a certain date to a new applicant who's already missed that date. So we had several problems with the potential proposition. One is it's a non-binding letter of intent as opposed to here's my operator. So I don't know whether that operator is going to finish there or not. And secondly, I don't know how you can switch from being an operator to being an applicant. So if we look at the original RFP and the date that
 On the hard data was to be submitted, we allowed a two-week extension, and that was by the administration, correct? About 14 days, yes. Okay, so we allowed that. According to the RFP that's on record, did it entail having an operator or did it not? I don't, that's my question right now, Sid. Yes, the RFP required an operator. It was one of the conditions of the RFP. Your answer was yes, if you could not hear.
 Okay, so according okay, so according to this our ordinance it had to have an operator when the RFP was submitted With the two-week extension, so I believe you just stated according to our ordinance I
 No, we published an RFP that had a number of information requested and to be submitted. Additionally, it included language that allowed the city, in the spirit of we were requesting RFPs to negotiate. This wasn't a submit your...
 final and last offer we allowed respondents to augment their proposals To some extent all of them as we advanced forward and that was specifically allowed under the RFP in regards to Allowing accepting defects of their original proposal. Okay, so would you would you say then there was almost a that flexibility that you could I
 that you could add things beyond the RFP deadline? So we, again, we allowed applicants to add to and modify their proposals through the RFP process, which we believe is consistent with the RFP.
 However, at this point in time and based on our staff recommendation, we're at the point where we need to advance forward. And so we brought forward a recommendation to certify the Hard Rock proposal as the only proposal to the Illinois Gaming Board.
 Okay, no further questions at this time. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to thank you for your earlier comments about the City Council to stand on two feet and make a decision.
 And not stand on one foot and the reason I say that is because in the future in the past We've had a lot of applicants come forward and developers that just didn't materialize They brought a lot of grand plans to us and how I'm relaying this is because the gentleman from Union and
 Gaming is it you haven't really said too much tonight, so I know you probably have a very important part of this So could you expound or could you explain that through these financial? Papers that were delivered to you and these proposals What is how do you go about vetting them out to see if they're in the marketplace that these are strong candidates? because we want to make sure that this casino gets built and as quickly as possible and that they're financially strong enough to do it and
 Number one, I think that's all in our best interest as far as the state legislation So explain to me what your role was in this process with these applications Sure. Thanks our role was to review the applications as submitted and to look at their feasibility which is a broad term, but we do this on quite a regular basis and that to us is is
 Can they, for one, generate revenues? Do they have an attractive product? Do they have a track record of being able to deliver on their promises? And then looking at the financial market, and we have an investment banking advisory part of our, that's probably our core business, we look at,
 Would the market support this? And I think Sid has referred to this earlier, but that's really important because we've been in RFP situations. We've advised governments, we've advised regulators, we've advised applicants. And in every case, it's always a matter of do you have enough of a market to serve?
 And so our job was to look at the market to see how many residents there are, what their incomes are, and what their gaming options are. Those are the primary pieces that we looked at when we determined if these projects, all of them, could be feasible or not. And I think, you know, the locations all suggest that there is certainly a market here, that there is certainly a lot of gaming already going on. The BGTs of Rockford are very successful, as I'm sure you're aware.
 really to get down to it is how competitive would those projects be with the VGTs with other casinos in the market with potential competitors in Wisconsin coming down the line as well and That was our work is that we wanted to advise and give our thoughts on all the proposals based on those facts and and just a regular study of numbers that we look at in terms of how many people live within 30 60 120 minutes of the
 location what their incomes are and and also in this case with so many competitors what's the gaming revenues generated by other casinos in the region so was your opinion then based in this summary
 Did you come up to that conclusion that Hard Rock is the only candidate that could fulfill its obligations financially in a short period of time? I would agree with that comment. When you look at the financial market and the ability of a, if you were to ask an investor,
 what do i believe in these numbers i trust these numbers do i do do you have a track record that proves that you know how to operate a casino um hard rocks clearly the the the the lone one in our mind that that could uh um have that confidence of the investment world right now um they're operating you know globally um obviously have very successful casinos
 and also just have shown the ability to go into various markets, whether it's a destination market, a local regional casino. They operate internationally. They've been successful in all those areas, and so we believe that the financial community would believe that Hard Rock would certainly have the ability to execute on this opportunity. Thank you. I just want to also state, Mayor, that we did not set the deadlines for this.
 process that we're going through I do understand the frustrations of the other two applicants but you know that was not on our dime that we set that time period it's unfortunate that we have to live by that but I don't want anything to be querying these deals because of future
 things that could come forward in an untimely manner. So I appreciate the comments from Alderman Benita Hervey that she had stated earlier. I can't recall it at this time because it's past my dinner time, but I know she said something that was important. I just want to say that. I can't remember at this moment.
 And I think all the comments are very good that are coming out of this. But to put weight on the team that you've assembled, we have to have a high probability of trust. That you guys negotiated the best deal for our city that you could with the amount of time that you had.
 So I want to applaud you for that and I do trust that your opinion is the best interest of our city and I want to thank all the applicants that came forward, put their time, money and effort into this. And hopefully we can come to a conclusion to this very soon, Your Honor. Thank you. So, Your Honor, just to add to that comment and.
 Some of the earlier comments when we began this process it was to fulfill the resolution that was Approved by City Council in regards to establishment of a casino in the city of Rockford You know, that was our goal and we certainly wanted to have a fair transparent competitive process to review proposals but I would like to make sure it's understood that we worked with all the applicants to bring forward their best proposal and
 Because ultimately as we were planning to come forward to the City Council and the community as a whole for final consideration We wanted to make sure that they were bringing their best foot forward so certainly Providing guidance giving them the ability to secure their proposals and
 to provide further clarification on what was being submitted, the discussions of the host community agreement. We worked with all the applicants, but the fact of the matter is where we're at today is partly based on timing, not because of efforts, but the hard rock proposal did stand above the rest. Thank you.
 We had a couple of comments alderman Thompson Kelly, I believe and then alderman McNeely. You've just had your hand up Okay, I promise this is my last question Also under the Illinois Gaming Board the section 3000-155 Duty to report misconduct now when the game and I have all their their sections here when the gaming board gets a
 a referral that we would send to them, and they give you, give you, give us a report back, will they refer to their sections and their response to the proposal that we're sending to them? Or would they just give us a point, yes or no? Did you understand that question? I didn't after I said it.
 Yeah, I think I know what you're asking is once you submit this what happens? Yeah, I mean generally I think that's the gist of what your question is. Um good question because the IGB hasn't done this in a while the last time they they took RFPs for a license was the 10th license which is now Rivers Casino and it took them 10 years to get there. So in this respect what I assume that they will they will do which would be normal was that they would you know look at the proposal
 go through their criteria you know ask for is it complete is it not complete yes or no probably ask some more information from the person submitting the proposal they will then do background investigations of all the folks who are involved in the proposal who are key persons owners
 um executives officers directors and so forth of all of the entities if those all are in up to par from the igb i suspect you'll just hear a yes or a no i don't think you'll get a report back saying they hit this target or made this piece it'll likely just be a blanket we accept them and we will issue the license to them and if they reject
 Follow up, Your Honor? Of course. If they reject the recommendation that we sent, will they make a recommendation? I don't know. Probably not because the statute doesn't provide for anything. One. Two. We felt comfortable. Hard Rock's been licensed in a lot of jurisdictions. Right.
 In all of the jurisdictions, you have a provision in the document, in the agreement with the shareholders, that says if there's any one shareholder that a state regulatory agency finds is unsuitable, they will get rid of that shareholder. They haven't been to Rockford. Okay. So that shareholder would be taken out. So we have a high degree of confidence that this group...
 And we don't know every person in the group. We have a high degree of confidence that the Hard Rock Casino will proceed as to whether any particular individual gets bounced for some reason. You know, who knows? Unlikely, but possible. But the deal will still proceed. Well, what?
 What would happen if they do reject it? If they reject the entire proposal, that's a good question because right now the statute just says within 120 days Right. Rockford could submit. Um, I suspect they could either reopen the license or maybe ask for legislation to change because the 120 days would have expired. So we're kind of in a weird situation of what really happens. In practice, what I think they do is I think they reopen the bidding, but I don't know if they would do that or not because they don't have a
 firm statutory basis as we all know the act isn't drafted um very clear um but i guess we would kind of be in a situation where i'm not exactly sure what would happen okay thank you thank you alderman thompson kelly next up we'll move to alderman mcneely and i'll come right back to alderman hervey thank you mr mayor do we have a list of the local investors into the hard rock
 We do but Can we have that list? No is the short answer. There's a provision in the Illinois gaming statute that says that if an applicant
 A respondent sends in confidential information stamped on there. That information can't be disclosed under the FOIA exemption. So it's up to the developer as to whether they want to disclose those people's names. We've seen those people's names. We made them available to the alderman. You just can't tell anybody who they are. You can, it's confidential. You can use it in your deliberative process, but you can't disclose it under the state statute.
 So that's just the way the statute reads But you can come in and see the list we provided that it was in the binders as you met in Chicago with our team I think that may Affect how the alderman will eventually vote whether we go with Hard Rock or either one of the other two. I
 Yeah, as I said you you have the list You just can't disclose it to the public. So, you know if you'd like to see it again We'd be obviously glad to provide it another time, but no problem. Thank you any other We'll move to alderman Hervey Looking at the Beloit casino and some of the concerns I've heard and read about that our casinos purely a function of state law Or are there federal? strictures that
 Sure. Relate to states rights to establish those. State law controls commercial casinos exclusively. The federal government only has anti-money laundering provisions and that type of thing. American Indian casinos are controlled by the federal government. The state can have an involvement in it by having a compact with a tribe.
 But if the state refuses to give a compact to a tribe, the tribe can go to the federal government and go right around the state if it wants to. So Wisconsin has a different deal with it, it's tribes that has a compact and the federal government has to approve the Beloit Casino. It's been sitting at the BIA, the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Department of Justice for quite some time now.
 Half the people that you talk to that are experts say, yes, it will happen in the next few years, and the other half say not a chance as long as President Trump is in office it will not happen. One other thing I want to know before we actually take this for a vote, I believe Hard Rock is the only one that has a relationship with the Native American tribal organization.
 Group correct in the operation. I'd like to know a little more about what that relationship is Is it a shared relationship? Is it exploited? Hardrock is owned and they can correct me if I've missed a did Hardrock is owned by the Seminole tribe of Florida it is they're applying here for commercial license and
 So they are not applying as a tribal licensee. It's applied as a regular, normal U.S. commercial casino license by Hard Rock. Okay, but that's where my question comes in. If Hard Rock, because someone described them to me, obviously trying to sway my opinion, as a franchise and not a Hard Rock corporate,
 Hard Rock Casino. I don't know the difference, but... No, I don't think that's right. Okay. Hard Rock is owned by a group of shareholders, the shareholders of the American Indians of the Seminole tribe. So it would be the same as, you know, a publicly held company owned by its shareholders. This just happens to be privately held by the tribe. And the Seminoles are, because I think they're based in what, Florida? Yes, ma'am. And they are permitted to establish casino islands in other states? Yes.
 They if they apply for commercial casinos and other states. Yes, they can get them in other states if they win an RFP Thanks alderman Durkee. Did you be a hand raised? And the city staff for digesting this down And Easy to understand and help us make a well-informed and
 a penderfyniad amdani. Rwy'n hefyd bob amser yn diolch i unrhyw un, unrhyw fuddsoddiant sydd eisiau dod i Rockford a mynd i'r risg a datblygu yma. Rwy'n mynd i ofyn i chi gwestiwn, un hypothetic, mewn adeg. Rwy'n rhaid i mi ddywed, rwy'n cael bias tuag at Hard Rock ac mae'n gwneud fy mab yn ffadl oherwydd pan rydyn ni'n mynd i'r trafod, rydyn ni wedi bod i ambell 26 o'r rhain o'r lle.
 Ond rwy'n gwybod hyn, mae'r gwirionedd Hard Rock hefyd, rwy'n gweld ymgyrchu, dwi ddim yn ymgyrchu ond mae'r gwirionedd Hard Rock a'u cachet yn dod  rhywbeth arall i'r tabl oherwydd y lleoedd rydyn ni wedi bod i yw pob cafe.
 nid yw nhw'n casinos, ac maen nhw'n hynod llwyddiannus ac maen nhw'n cael eu llwyddo bob amser. Felly, rwy'n credu eu bod nhw'n dod 'r amgylchedd o ddiddordeb a gwerth sy'n mynd yn well ymhell y casino. Mae'n gynharach, maen nhw'n gwneud ymddygiad llwyddiannus, yn ystod dim ond y casino.
 Mae gennym ddynion llwyddiannus sy'n ymwneud 'r fferm. Felly mae'r cwestiwn sydd gen i yn gyfansodol, a dyna yw... Dr. Durkee. O, rwy'n siwr. Mae'r cwestiwn sydd gen i yn gyfansodol. Rwy'n gwybod y con, y con sy'n gallu bod yn ymwneud  chynnal y gwirionedd hir i Rockford yw efallai y bydd yn cyfyngu  phwysigrwydd.
 Rwy'n meddwl a oes y gwirionedd yn eithaf iawn oherwydd y gwirionedd, oherwydd ei cashew addysg, oherwydd beth mae'n ei ddod  i'r ardal. Allwn ni hefyd gael cyfle i fod yna'r tn sy'n arwain i bob dr? Yn enwedig, a all Rockford, gyda'i enw Hard Rock, a allai ei fod yn ardal addysg ychydig yn uwch na hynny? Beth yw'r anghenion? Rwy'n credu bod chi'n gwneud hyn am y byd.
 Beth yw'r risg y byddai hynny'n digwydd? Dim ond ysgrifennu. Ydy'n digwydd? Wel, yn amlwg, beth rydych chi'n ei wneud yw ceisio casglu'r dau hysbysiad.
 ymuno, chi'n gwybod, y Coronado er enghraifft, a beth fyddant yn ei wneud. Ac wrth ymgysylltu'r rhain, rydych chi'n gobeithio cael mwy o aciau, rydych chi'n gobeithio cael mwy o gweithredu fel y gwaith mewn y diwydiant cerddoriaeth y cerddoriaeth. A wnaeth hynny ddigwydd mewn rhai leoliadau? Ie, Springfield, Massachusetts, mae sefyllfa sylweddol gyda MGM, lle mae MGM yn gweithio mewn casino eithaf mawr yno, ac mae yna rhai theatrau lleol a stagiau lleol sy'n
 Mae'r ddau o'r cyd-dweud yn ymwneud 'r Cyffredin Gwledig, ac maen nhw wedi gweld rhyw fath o gynyrch mewn amgylchedd yn y ddydd. Wel, nid rhyw fath, ond rhyw fath o gynyrch sylweddol. Dwi ddim yn gwybod os bydd hyn yn digwydd yma. Rwy'n credu bod y cyd-dweud yn y ddau. Mae'n rhyw fath o isel, mae Rochford yn ardal metrol sy'n cael ei gynnal gan gyflwyniad sylweddol iawn. Felly dyna pam y dywedais.
 if you guys have seen that in similar areas in your exposures and travels, is that actually a possibility? Is it reasonable? I think that it's certainly a possibility. We've seen quite a few locations where entertainment does drive visitation, and it drives visitation from people other than just your 
 core gamblers, if you will. It drives visitation for couples who are just coming for the evening to watch the show, and they may gamble a little bit, but they might not. And so I think that's one of the things where any casino that wants to use entertainment, and certainly you see it nationwide, almost every casino of any size has some form of entertainment. It may not be a dedicated of programming as Hard Rock, I believe, is intending to program here, but
 I think that that's just a part of what we see with casinos, is that's just a core driver of business, especially name acts. And certainly acts that attract the demographic of the casinos, slightly older, a lot of more old bands from the past, if you will. But those are very popular, and those get very large crowds. And so I think that's sort of the...
 uh... i would assume that hard rocks looking at that sort of a uh...
 line up a schedule and those might not even compete with sort of the what the other uh venues in town might have been planning but there's no reason for a casino venue to to go and monopolize the entertainment business i think that their their goal is always going to be to attract the right kinds of customers to expand their brand to expand their reach into the community and that doesn't necessarily mean we just have to go own the entertainment in the in the city thank you
 Almost hesitate to ask this but are there any other questions? Thank you. Yeah, I'd see no other questions Alderman trail. Thank you, Your Honor Get back to our committee our agenda under Roman numeral three new committee reports be code and regulations number two and three I move to lay that over your honor. We have a motion in second and items that are laid over by two aldermen automatically are laid over and
 Okay, your honor, I'll move on to Roman numeral five, motions and resolutions. Number C, finance and personnel. Number three and four, I move to lay that over. Second. We have a motion and second, so those two items are automatically laid over. Move on to- Can you move the microphone up just a little bit? Move on to Roman numeral six.
 So Alderman Chiarelli, we're going to need a voice vote for the resolution. So that was, I believe you stated Roman numeral 5, C, 3, and 4? That's correct. I move to lay that over, Your Honor. We have a motion and a second to lay those items over. So all those in favor of laying over items number 3 and 4 say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Aye.
 Item will be laid over. Sorry, Alderman Torelli. Yep, move on to item Roman numeral 6, new business ordinances B, 2 and 3. I move to lay over. Second. They're already laid over. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Can I buy an adjournment? So moved. So we have a motion and a second for us to adjourn. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.