First, we have our invocation and we have the Imam Muhammad Ahmed El-Gobashi of the Muslim Association of Greater Rockford here tonight. There's a microphone right there. Thank you. Lord of our city, state, and world, you created us from a single soul, that of Adam and Eve, and made us into tribes and nations so we may know one another, serve one another, and aid one another.
 You have sent to us prophets and messengers to guide us to the straight path. Help us worship you today, Lord, by serving your creation equally. Help us not deviate from the path of paradise again. Help us see one another as equal. Lord, guide us to understand that although we might have come on different arcs, that we might have different oceans to cross. Help us realize that.
 We are now together in this great country. We pray that God Almighty make our city a place of peace and tranquility. Lord of our elected officials, we pray these men and women will humble themselves to the sacred task of governing the people. We pray for wisdom, generosity, and justice for all. We pray for leaders gifted in diplomacy, blessed with characters and integrity,
 Leaders who know our security comes from relationship of trust and communication. Our Lord, on our part, give us the patience to give our leaders a chance to govern with mercy, compassion, justice, and love. Let us support sincere effort and celebrate wise compromise. We all pray that the Almighty God guide us to a unified world
 Unified State, Unified City, Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Here. Logan? Here. Tunberg? Here. Frost? Hervey? Here. Irvins? Thompson-Kelly? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Here. Beach? Here. Keonis? Here. McNeely? And President Yaroni?
 Thank you. We have a quorum next up I'd need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 17th 2018 We have a motion in a second. Is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same sign Motion passes next up. We have them I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on September 24th 2018 We have a motion in a second is any discussion? I
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have a number of proclamations this evening. And the first is for Hispanic Heritage Month. And I believe we have a number of members of the Coalition for Latino Leaders. How are you? Good to see you. How are you doing? Good to see you.
 Whereas each year the President of the United States proclaims September 15th through October 15th to be Hispanic Heritage Month, and whereas the City of Rockford recognizes the contributions made by persons of Latino descent in this area over the last 100 years and seeks to join with them in celebrating their culture and achievements.
 And whereas, for the last 50 years, Hispanic organizations have carried out their mission to foster progress of Latinos in Rockford in partnership with government, education, business, health, recreational, and cultural institutions, most recently uniting together under the umbrella of the Coalition of Latino Leaders.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim September 15th through August 15th of 2018 to be Hispanic Heritage Month. Would you like to share some words, Rudy? Okay. Okay.
 Okay, well, thank you once again. The main purpose of Hispanic Heritage Month is really to raise awareness of the Latino culture throughout the community. It really should be done and is done throughout the year, not just this month, even though this month highlights it from, as you pointed out, September 15th through October 15th. But actually 80 months ago we
 we formed a coalition of Latino leaders, and the purpose was to get people from different businesses, different groups, because there's a lot of diversity also within the Latino organization, or the Latino community, wanted to bring people together so we could share information. And we've been meeting monthly, and we haven't missed one for the last 80 months,
 And from that, different committees have formed where we meet to talk about a variety of things, where we've met with the mayor.
 A number of times, usually quarterly, we met with the police chief, the sheriff, and the state's attorney. In fact, we have a meeting coming up on Wednesday. So that committee happens to be a public safety committee, and I'm the one that organizes the public safety committee site. But we have other committee members that if we could go down the list and just introduce yourself, where you work, and the committee if you're leading one.
 Hi, I'm Christina Peacock. I'm in charge of the Communications Committee, and I'm from the City of Rockford. I'm Linda Zuba with Zuba & Associates, and I facilitate the Support and Advocacy Committee for the coalition. I'm Cesar Sanchez. I work at Midland States Bank, and I head the Business Committee. I'm Elda Franco-Magee, and I head the Health Committee. Hi, my name is Fernando Lopez. I'm from La Bamba Radio. Jorge Herrera with Rockford Bank & Trust.
 Armando Cardenas, and I had the entertainment committee. I'm Adderall Seguera, and this is my father from El Sol de Rockford. Hi, my name is Ricardo Seguera. I'm the editor of El Sol de Rockford, a local Spanish newspaper. By the way, I have your mayor on the front page. Now you believe me, right?
 All right. Don't even go there. And then just one last thing. I want to thank WTVO. They did a really good program yesterday. Well, they aired it yesterday about Hispanic heritage culture.
 AND WE WERE ACTUALLY IN IT AS FAR AS MEMBERS OF THE COALITION, ONE ON THE BASEBALL LEAGUE THAT WAS HERE FOR ABOUT 40 YEARS, AND THEN THE OTHER ONE WAS ANTONIO RAMIREZ WHO IS ON THE EDUCATION COMMITTEE. HE'S THE LEAD. HE'S NOT HERE TODAY. AND THEY TALKED TO HIM AT GUANAHUATO TALKING ABOUT THE YOUTH PROGRAMS AND HOW YOUTH IS OBVIOUSLY OUR FUTURE AND HOW WE'RE TRYING TO PREPARE THEM FOR THAT. SO IT WAS REALLY PRESENTED VERY WELL. SO THERE WAS TWO FROM CHICAGO.
 Two groups from Rockford, two interviews from Rockford, and then another one was Peoria and two other places, as well as Cesar Chavez, you know, where they had some of the history behind that. So with that, I just want to thank the city council, the mayor, and all the department heads for all the support that they've been giving us. Okay, thank you. The next proclamation we have this evening is for Fire Prevention Week, and if Chief Derek Bergson would like to join, as well as a number of other...
 Chief Knott, number of others. How are you? Good. Good to see you. What's going on? Good to see you. Good to see you.
 Whereas, the City of Rockford, Illinois is committed to ensuring the safety and security of all those living in and visiting Rockford. And whereas, home fires killed 2,735 people in the United States in 2016, according to the National Fire Protection Association. And fire departments responded to 352,500 home fires.
 And whereas, residents should identify places in their homes where fires can start and eliminate those hazards. And whereas, because working smoke alarms cut the risk of dying in reported home fires in half, residents should install smoke alarms in every sleeping room, outside each separate sleeping area, and on every level of their home.
 And whereas residents who have planned and practice a home fire escape plan are more prepared and will therefore be more likely to survive a fire And whereas the Rockford's first responders are dedicated to reducing the occurrence of home fires and home fire injuries through the pre through prevention and protection education and whereas the 2018 fire prevention week theme is look Listen learn be aware fire can happen anywhere effectively serves
 to remind us all that we need to take personal steps to increase our safety from fire. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of October 7th through October 15th of 2018 to be Fire Prevention Week. Would you like to share some words? Sure, thank you. Well, good evening. My name is Matthew Knott. I'm the Division Chief of Fire Prevention. With me today is Randy James, who is our recruiter.
 Mike Rotolo who is one of our investigators also so the person that was actually going to be accepting this for us is our fire prevention coordinator Tim Morris but he's actually out at a fire right now so fires still do happen in our community we work very hard every day to prevent those fires from occurring and then if they do happen to occur we take all efforts to try and minimize the loss but we also ask everybody to take some some precautions to make sure you have working smoke detectors make sure you have a home escape plan
 and make sure your friends and family understand the basic fire tips, and we'd be happy to share any time, either through our website or visiting one of our fire stations or contacting our fire prevention office at any time, and we'll be glad to share some fire prevention tips. So thank you very much for this proclamation. It means a lot to us. Thank you. Thank you.
 Our fire department really does tremendous work. If you look at fires that occur in our community compared to fires that occur in volunteer fire districts, you can just note the amount of damage that occurs in the volunteer areas. Our fire department does a tremendous job responding and putting out fires.
 Next proclamation we have this evening is American Pharmacists Month and there's several from the University of Illinois College of Medicine and the Academy of Student Pharmacists. Whereas pharmacy is one of the oldest of the health care providers dedicated to
 dedicated to the health and well-being of all people. Whereas today, there are over 270,000 pharmacists licensed in the United States and nearly 18,000 pharmacists in Illinois providing service and healthcare counseling to assure the rational and safe use of all medications,
 with the help of 38,000 pharmacy technicians. And whereas the use of medication as a cost-effective alternative to more expensive medical procedures is becoming a major force in moderating overall healthcare costs. And whereas today's powerful medications require greater attention and safety to the manner in which they are used by different patient population groups.
 both clinically and demographically. And whereas the American Pharmacists Association and the Illinois Pharmacists Association have declared October as American Pharmacists Month with the theme, know your medicines and know your pharmacists. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2018 to be American Pharmacists Month.
 Would you like to share some words? Thank you. We just want to say thank you for recognizing that October to be American Pharmacists Month and recognizing all that pharmacists do as a form of community provider. Thank you. Next up, we may have a couple of people. For Domestic Violence Awareness Month, it looks like we have Judge Rosemary Collins. You guys are going to leave Judge Rosemary Collins to come up here on their own. I wouldn't do that.
 How are you? Good to see you. Sorry to call you guys out. How are you? Hi, good morning. Good to see you. I'm there. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Whereas domestic violence crosses all socioeconomic lines, including but not limited to race, ethnicity, gender, age, education, employment, and marital status. And whereas the Rockford Police Department responded to 5,204 calls for service for domestic violence-related offenses in 2017 alone.
 And whereas last year over 1,500 children and adult victims of domestic violence sought emergency shelter, legal advocacy, and hotline services from local domestic violence program. Remedies Renewing Lives.
 Likewise, over 2400 emergency orders of protection were requested in Winnebago County. And whereas the city of Rockford recognizes that domestic violence has a devastating impact on our community and that improving the response to this problem requires a coordinated community response.
 And whereas, also throughout the month of October, the 17th Judicial Circuit Court Family Violence Coordinating Council and other local collaborative prevention groups will be hosting several events to bring awareness of domestic violence and thus give hope to all victims of abuse and those struggling with this issue.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2018 to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Would you like to share a few words with us? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. It's an honor to be here today. And thank you all for sharing some of your time with us. We know that domestic violence occurs between partners, but we've come to realize that this is an issue that affects our entire community. And that's why we all have to work together to make sure that we have an impact on domestic violence in preventing it and stopping it from reoccurring.
 The damage that's done to individuals and families is long-lasting, and we know that between 3 to 10 million children every year in our country experience domestic violence in their homes.
 The key reason that we have to work on this issue is because if we can change domestic violence in the home We can help ensure our children's success in life because while the domestic violence may be occurring at home It affects everything they do it affects their ability to learn it affects their ability to work later and so it's an issue that deal that they are have to deal with for the rest of their lives and
 It impacts businesses, it consumes resources both in criminal justice and in social services. And in your packets we put out information from a brand new study that was just released that shows the economic effect of domestic violence in our country. And we know that the lifetime effect on a woman who's a victim of domestic violence is over $103,000.
 I am so proud of the hard work that our community has done in dealing with this community crisis of domestic violence. We have all stepped up and we will continue to step up to make sure that we do whatever it takes to eliminate domestic violence in our communities, in our homes, in our schools, and everywhere that we can.
 Mayor McNamara and Council Members, I really want to thank you for providing us with this forum to address this issue of domestic violence in the month of October and also in each and every month throughout the year. I know that by working together we can ensure a safe community for each and every one of its members.
 So thank you very much. We have given you a packet. It's the purple packet. It has a list of activities throughout the month. We hope you join us. And we have our Stephanie Hunu is our coordinator, and she's provided her card in there. If you have any additional questions or want to get involved, please feel free to contact her. But thank you for your support. We really appreciate it. And thank you for your support of the Family Justice Center. So before the judge leaves, I just want to say.
 This will probably be the last time you come before this body as a judge. I just want to say there's very few people I have the opportunity to look up to, and you are certainly one of those that you just have tremendous passion, and you're incredibly intelligent in how you drive an important issue in our community. It's really been unparalleled. We all owe you a tremendous debt of gratitude for the amazing work you've done over your career. So thank you so much.
 Thank you. And I would just say this is a little out of order, but
 I had the opportunity to be at an event today where the Rockford Award was given by the airport to UPS. And there was a gentleman there, the president of UPS, Brendan Canavan, who was there today. And he said something. I know a number of the people here, a number of the aldermen here heard it. But he had an entire speech written, and I could see it. And he just decided to go against that speech. And he said, the number one reason that UPS is successful.
 In the Rockford area specifically and why they chose this area to continue to expand as her I believe doing a more than seven billion dollars of expansion worldwide is for one reason our people and I thought how he stated that and how we deflected all the the
 Accolades away from himself or the UPS and put it solely at our people's footsteps Was really amazing. So I just wanted to make sure I shared that so next up we have petitions and communications with planning and development alderman bill rose and
 We have two items for Planning and Development Committee. A memorandum from Matthew Simpson, Economic Development and Diversity Procurement Coordinator, regarding Rockford Community Partners Work Plan Progress Reports for Midtown District.
 Rockford area out Scott count Arts Council and the element referred to planning and development and Then the second item is a memorandum from attorney LaFa carry Yvonne assistant city attorney regarding a resolution calling a public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with approval of the redevelopment plan and project for and the designation of the South Main Rock Street Coleman village redevelopment project again referred to planning and development committee
 Thank you. Next is Coats and Regulations with Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 The first is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, our city traffic engineer regarding an honorary street name change for 18th Street from Reed Avenue to Pershing Avenue to Bates Boulevard in honor of Ricky Bates. The second is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney regarding amendments to Chapter 16, Article 12 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Special Events Ordinances.
 Number three is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, the zoning and land use administrator regarding the tentative PUD plat of Love's Rockford subdivision.
 The fourth is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, CIP operation manager regarding a vacation request for a portion of Loomis Street in the Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad Company right of way. The fifth is a memorandum from Matthew Flores, Assistant City Attorney regarding proposed revisions to Chapter 5, Article 3, Division 5 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Massage Establishments.
 Number six is the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on October 10th 2018 in the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulations meeting on October 22nd 2018 and
 And finally, a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a contract between the City of Rockford Police Department and Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. All seven of those items will be referred to the Codes and Regulations Committee, Your Honor.
 Thank you. Next up, we have Alderman Hervey for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items tonight. The first, a memorandum from Mike Hankinson, our Land Transaction Officer, regarding the acceptance of an offer to purchase land.
 On 2648 11th Street, which was listed for sale through the MLS. Number two is another memorandum from Mike Hankinson, land transaction officer regarding acceptance of the offer to purchase 1131 Andrew Street, which also was listed for sale through the MLS. Both of those will be referred to finance and personnel.
 The remaining item is a memorandum from Mark Stockman, Director of Public Works, regarding the City of Rockford vehicle policy. Thank you. Next up, we have public speakers, and I'll remind all public speakers that you have three minutes. And our first public speaker is Christina Valdez-Peacock.
 Hello. This is the last time you guys will have to hear from me tonight, I promise. I'm here on behalf of the National Alliance on Mental Illnesses, Northern Illinois Chapter. I just wanted to talk to you guys about Mental Illness Awareness Week, which is next week, October 7th through the 14th. So we placed some items, I believe, on your desk. So I'm just going to go over these real quickly with you guys and then do a quick call to action. Okay.
 Each year, millions of Americans face the reality of living with a mental health condition. However, mental illness affects everyone directly or indirectly through family, friends, and coworkers.
 Despite mental illness's reach and prevalence, there's still a widespread stigma and misunderstanding. That's why each year during the first week of October, NAMI Northern Illinois and participants across the country raise awareness of mental illness. Each year we educate the public, fight the stigma, and provide support. Each year our movement grows stronger and larger.
 We believe that mental health conditions are important to discuss year-round, but highlighting them during Mental Illness Awareness Week provides a dedicated time for mental health advocates across the country to come together as one unified voice.
 What we have for you, and I have tons more if anyone wants any, but we have postcards with a schedule of Mental Illness Awareness Week activities. The mayor, the chairman, and I believe Wester are all donating their time to Mental Illness Awareness Week, so we thank you very much. But we are going to be doing an art gallery on October 5th and 6th at Stepping Stones.
 We're going to be doing an educational program at Nordlof Center, which also features a free depression screening and lines people up with resources if need be. That's October 9th.
 We're doing a Pizza Ranch event where all the tips will proceed NAMI. And Jubilee Center is going to be having their Harvest Fest October 11th. And then our final event is our large one, which is a rally for mental health. It's October 12th at Veterans Memorial Hall at noon. It's free. We're going to be giving away free lunch. We're going to have lots of speakers sharing their stories.
 So we encourage everyone to come. The final piece that we gave you is a Stand Hand in Hand with NAMI form. This is how we get a lot of donations for Mental Illness Awareness Week, and it's a way of everybody putting their names to a banner that recognizes that we all stand together to fight the stigma for Mental Illness Awareness Week. So thank you very much for your time, and also, because I've watched City Council for years and years and years, I'm going to borrow from Prophet Yusuf.
 Carrie Haggerty, it's your birthday. I don't like you. I love you. There's not anything you can do about it. Thank you. I so appreciate that. I just want you to know, Christine, I actually called Carrie and said the same thing today. Did we acknowledge the chairman of the audience? I certainly was going to do that. And Mr. Frank Haney, thank you so much for being here with us. And thank you for your partnership on Barbara Coleman.
 So our next public speaker is Prophet Yusef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of John, the 14th chapter, the first verse, it says, Do not let your heart be troubled. Trust in God, trust also in me. What I want to speak about tonight, how to reduce domestic violence in the United States by using my system. There are seven causes.
 and seven solutions to this problem. Domestic violence is among the most common reason police are called in Rockwood. The city police department responds to an average of 17.5% domestic violence related calls every day. 25% of violent crime in Rockwood are domestic related. So put more of your policemen to handle
 this problem the first cause men who are misogynist they hate women because they hate their mothers the second cause men who go with women who are alone they don't have tough brothers in their life the third cause men who suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder the fourth cause
 men who are drug addicts. The fifth cause, men who are alcoholics. The sixth cause, men who are unemployed. The seventh cause, men who have a negative self-image of themselves. They hate themselves so they can't love anyone. If you eliminate these seven things, you could eliminate domestic violence in the United States. And also, the judges and police must come down hard
 on domestic violators and child abuse by pressing charges themselves because most women are afraid and you should have a register for domestic violators and child abusers like you have for sex offenders. And if you give me 30 million on women with walkie talkies, I can reduce crime in Rockford in 90 days. I also have been wanting to tell Mrs. Carey
 and Mr. Todd and Mr. George Davis and my brother-in-law John, who is a Vietnam veteran, this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday my good friends and I wish you many more and God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday to my good friends, happy birthday to you.
 birthday to you and god bless you thanks for allowing me to speak thank you our next public speaker is mr john tay grantley speaking uh mayor mayor mcmahon our august all the women and our citizens of rockwood and mennois and also frank hamey in the house proverbs 17 highlights seven benefits of keeping quiet it's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say two it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn it gives you something in common with those who
 who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something important to say. The Republican headquarters was vandalizing with sprawling spray paint of words rape and shame all across the building. I agree with Dr. Letitia Wallace's statement. This does nothing to further the cause of seeking justice for survivors of sexual assault. I personally feel that all Republicans are not raped.
 This person or group wants to be heard. However, they went about it the wrong way. Thus, let's look back at the history and why are we at this point today. Whether or not Republicans ultimately confirmed President Donald Trump's Supreme Court nominee, some on the front line of the gulf midterm ballot field fear that the party may have already lost in the days after the divided nation watched Brett,
 and his accused Christine delivered conflicting stories about what happened when they were teenagers. Republicans campaign operators are novice, this is not the fight they wanted six weeks before election day. Let's go back to the time during the final years in office
 Obama had the opportunity to fill the third Supreme Court vacancy following February the 13th death of Associate Judge Antito. However, the Republican leader in the Senate announced they plan to withhold voting on any potential nominee until a new president was elected.
 some Senate Democrats responded that there was sufficient time to vote on a nominee before the election. Consequently, no action was taken on the nomination which expired in January. Now you have the Republican Party to have control of the executive branch, the legislative branch of the government. However, they picked
 They would have control of the district branch of government. When the Constitution was created, you have checks and balance in our democracy. That all changed after the Bush and Gore election. When Gore had the popular vote, however, they were neck and neck with the electoral vote. Thus, the Supreme Court voted in favor of Bush. That was the
 beginning and the end of checks and balance in our government. We have at least 22 women have accused Donald Trump of sexual misconduct from 1970 to 2013. As the national conversation on sexual misconduct is gripping the country from Hollywood to the Capitol Hill, some new attention has been focused on sexual misconduct allegations.
 Thus, Bill Cosby sentenced to 3 to 10 years in prison for Andrade's sexual assault. Now, a CEO, executive official, or whole that have been accused of sexual harassment have not been to court. A white, long-time California businessman was sentenced Wednesday to 90 days of house arrest, 5 years of informal probation,
 after putting you in no contest status for raping a child. Now let's go back to Rockford. Now is the time to address the message valid in Rockford. Thank you. Next up we have new committee reports. New committee reports for planning and development. Alderman Rosick.
 Thank you, your honor. We have two items. The committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement with Rock Valley Community College and Rockford Local Development Corporation for the advancement of Coleman Village phase one. The agreement provides a framework of roles and responsibilities for implementing the advanced technology center. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 For item two, committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Illinois Tollway Authority regarding maintenance at the I-90 gateway entrance at East 8th Street. Again, the legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the two items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Lobanman? Aye. Tunbert? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Cowley? Aye.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beech? Aye. Keonis? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. That's 12 ayes, Your Honor. Excellent.
 i have several items again this evening the first the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of 18th street and 10th avenue thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the interstate intersection of 18th street and 10th avenue
 The second, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish stop control of Hampton Ridge Drive stopping for Lund Avenue. The third, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a parking restriction of no parking any time on the south side of Halsted Road from Sablewood Drive to 75 feet west of Sablewood Drive.
 The fourth, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action on the request to establish traffic control at the intersection of North Church Street and Deborah Avenue. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals.
 A, approval of a special use permit for passenger vehicle sales. And B, approval, there's a Scribner error on everybody's page there that says denial, but it is an approval of a variation to reduce the required landscaping per the submitted revised site plan in a C4 zoning district at 918 Broadway and 14XX South 6th Street.
 subject to conditions. Number six, the committee recommends reversing the zoning board of appeals denial of a variation to reduce the required side yard setback from 6 feet to 4 feet, 1 inch, along the east property line for 28 feet by 14 feet, in addition to the residence and attached garage in an R1 single-family zoning district at 4979 Runquist Court, subject to findings of fact.
 Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for A, a variation to reduce the required front yard setback from 35 feet to 22 feet along the west property line for a 22 feet by 8 feet front porch. B, a variation to reduce the required side yard setback from 6 feet to 5.0 feet.
 i'm sorry 5.05 feet along the south property line for an attached garage and see a variation to reduce the required rear yard setback from 30 feet to 27.03 feet
 along the east property line for an attached garage in an R1 single family zoning district at 4816 Skokie Circle, subject to conditions. These are kind of tough tonight. You're doing a great job though.
 Number eight, the committee recommends approval for a modification of an existing liquor license to allow the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with an Italian cafe and video gaming facility in a C1 zoning district at 1620, 1626, 1616 North Bell School Road.
 The Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board was 3 to 3 tie with no recommendation subject to conditions. And number nine, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a retail store in a C3 zoning district at 2432 and 2420 South Alpine Road subject to condition. I place those items up for passage, your honor.
 Thank you. Is there any discussion on the nine items before you? Alderman Frost? Thank you, your honor. With respect to number six at 4979 Runquist Court, this is in the fourth ward of Rockford and the applicant is here today. He's provided me with some diagrams we talked about a little bit last week. I just want to remind all the council folks before you vote on it that
 His home has an existing garage and he wants to add behind the garage a tandem garage. So as you're pulling up to the home, it won't look any different whatsoever. He'll have to enter that garage behind through the two car door that he already has. It's basically so he can store a collector's car that he has, as well as a motorcycle at his home instead of at an office.
 Offsite, additionally, he does own the lot next to it and I can pass the photograph around that he maintains in an incredibly well manner. It looks like a park and I would hate to see it get denied and then have the homeowner.
 Come back or build a two car garage on a lot that he owns and tell the city that you know that he may build a home there someday. This makes a lot more sense. From a land use point of view, it looks a lot better. And hopefully we all can encourage the, and obviously it's costing a great deal of money to do this project. So he's improving the cost of the home. And it's in a cul-de-sac and there's no neighbors that have voiced any objection to it. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions?
 Discussion alderman Durkin. Thank you your honor with respect to number eight the adding addition of the gaming license I just wanted to remind the aldermen that the neighborhood the neighbors Myself are all opposed to this. It's not a good fit and
 This has been a little bit of an escalation trying to convert more of a c1 to almost a c2 property by incrementalism and I plan on opposing This modification. Thank you. Thank you other items for discussion seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll? Durkee Loganman Tunebert frost Hervey Thompson Kelly
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Keonis, McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. We have 12 ayes on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9, and 3 noes on number 8. All items passing. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel, Alderman Hurd.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $10,135,051.89. That's approved at the...
 Finance and personnel committee meeting on September 24th. Second committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for the acceptance of the STP grant for fiscal year 2019 in the amount of $32,736. This is from the Illinois Department of Transportation.
 Number three, the committee is recommending approval of the acceptance of a grant award for the Department of Justice Office of Violence Against Women, Improving Criminal Justice Responses Program Grant in the amount of $449,870.
 Number four, the committee is recommending approval of the submission of a request for a waiver of $138,450 of the non-federal share requirement under the Early Head Start Child Care Grant from the Office of Head Start for the grant period ending June 30, 2018.
 And number five, the committee is recommending approval of the changes to the health plan structure for City of Rockford non-represented employees. That is for the mayor, city council, and retirees. I'm sorry, City of Rockford non-represented employees, mayor, city council, and retirees. Thank you. And place those five items up for passage. Thank you.
 Thank you. So we have five items before us. Any discussion on the five items before us? Alderman Hervey? Just one, and this is a request with regard to number five, the changes to the health plan structure. I absolutely agree with the increases. The thing that I would ask that we take a look at is scaling the out-of-pocket and deductible based on wage level.
 There's a huge difference between an $800 a year increase. It's kind of regressive. It hits people who make only $11 an hour the same way that it does people who are at a hundred and some thousand dollars. It can be a huge hardship and I think it can lead people to avoid medical services. Even though this is a great plan, if you add up all the costs, that is a calculable percentage.
 The annual wages for people at lower income levels, so I would I'm going to support it But I would ask that we bring back something that would scale those if it makes sense Put the burden on those with higher wages. Thank you. Thank you any other discussion on alderman toonberg Thank You mayor regarding number five Could we let those the taxpayers of our city know how much this plan is going to save our our
 Save them the plan will this increase that the this increase would save the city of Rockford about 323 thousand dollars a year. Thank you mayor Thank you. Is there other discussion on the five items that we have before us seeing no discussion clerk Will you please call the roll? jerky, I will be man to invert frost Herbie Thompson Kelly
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. We have 12 ayes on 1 through 4 and 1 no on number 5 with 11 ayes. All items passed. Excellent.
 Next up we have officers report said just want to cause your call your attention to a memo on your desk for Director Mark Stockman regarding setting up meetings for our upcoming 2019 to 2023 capital improvement plan so make sure that you connect with Rachel Benson to get your meeting set with staff and
 The second, I did mention earlier today the award ceremony that was held by the Rockford Airport honoring UPS. Just one thing to highlight is the airport grew 1,000 jobs in 2017 and is on pace to grow another 1,000 jobs here in 2018. And I just can't reiterate enough how special it was to hear the CEO talk about our citizens and the skills that they bring to work.
 uh and that being the number one reason why they are investing he also highlighted partnerships why while we had lunch partnerships that we've had with rock valley and other public and private partnerships that we've had that has really helped him explain why they're doubling down on the city of rockford in our airport other thing i would mention is there was a press conference today by
 the Illinois Tollway Authority and we had our own Representative Earl Dotson jr. There and the amount of money that they've invested out on our front porch So to say out on I-90 is tremendous and I know Through our partnership with the visitor convention bureau and the forest city beautiful program They're investing as well out to make that front entrance really wonderful and John Grove mentioned a
 a number of times how he wants to move to other corridors and main corridors of our community, ways of entry to really help beautify in those areas. So that was exciting. The last thing I'll mention is
 Obviously yesterday or at some point Saturday or Sunday there was some pretty horrific things spray-painted on a building in the city of Rockford and just want to say no matter what party you're on, no matter what side of a particular issue you're on, there's really no time or place in our community and it to me it certainly doesn't follow the values that I think all of us try to
 lived by in our community to fall for something as low as spray painting on someone's private property i don't think it makes a political point i don't think it makes a point at all it actually can have the opposite effect from a political standpoint than what the person probably wanted to have
 And it's just foolish. We certainly condemn it and I want to say a big thank you to our Public Works Department for Being out there immediately our Rockford Police Department for being out there Immediately and we also very little known fact as we had an individual come forward and say That they wanted to help
 And there was a gentleman named Andrew Korea who owns powerhouse cleaning, who stepped forward and provided his time, his employees time and resources to help get that private building cleaned up. So I just want to recognize the generosity that he showed. And he didn't care what party he was.
 He didn't even mention parties to me, but it was just really special. It shows the best parts of Rockford when we're facing something really difficult and something, in my opinion, was just really sad to see. So with that, I will turn you over to the alderman for officers reports. Alderman Thompson-Keller.
 I have a communication here that I thought was very interesting. It's called the Faith and Marketplace Conference with Job Corps and the city of Rockford, as well as Swedish America, Workforce Connection. They will be holding a career and educational fair October 11, 2018, from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.,
 Empowering Word Christian Center, which is located at 4010 East State Street. I think it's really wonderful to see all of these different organizations being involved in a work fair, and I'm really glad to see that the city of Rockford is being involved. If the page would make some copies and give them to the aldermen, I think it's a worthwhile event for our neighborhood groups to pay attention to and participate.
 and participate in. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I failed to mention one other item that happened yesterday that was really wonderful was over at Mount Zion at Pastor Hightower's church. We had two entrepreneurs, Tina and Kevin, open up a salon with a purpose and talk about just a fantastic event. It was fantastic. It was wonderful to see Alderman McNeely there. Just a great event. Couldn't be nicer people doing something really unique. It really, to me, highlights it.
 The social entrepreneurship that the church has had if you look at their long care business to now this it's really pretty special what they have going on alderman hervey. Thank you your honor just for citizens who might be watching. There's a very severe weather. Warning out for tonight.
 rain, large hail, and very strong winds. So if people can, batten down the hatches. If kids are out at any kind of events, practices, or something of that sort, try to get them home. And in honor of that, well, first two things to John Groh. I would like to unselfishly offer the South Main Corridor. I thought you may mention that. As the site of the next project, I want you to know I'm just going to
 you know lay it all aside and make that sacrifice but i will certainly do that um by the way there's some good things that we could do there in all seriousness that triangle right back um but second i'm gonna not say anything else for the rest of the night so we can get out early and avoid the storm can i get that a video yeah we'll have zach uh send it to you
 Yeah. So Alderman Frost and then Alderman Thunberg. I don't want to beat it to death, but I also had the chance to go today to the event involving the Rockford Award with UPS. And Mike Dunn did an outstanding job of having quite a few people there. But there was one individual there who ran the airport
 Back in up until 1994 named Fred Ford, and although he joked around a little bit about, you know, I think getting shown the door to Rockford at some point when he left, he was the individual in his board that took the chance. And he told the story today about how when he went to UPS and.
 And they asked him if he had a certain type of equipment. The answer was no. Do you have a 10,000 foot runway? The answer was no. They kept asking what you have, and he said, I don't have any of those things. And it seemed like they were like, well, then why are you here? And his point was that in a short amount of time,
 He promised that he would get all these things done and they did in a rather short amount of time. And that was the impetus that led, Governor Edgar came to Rockford I believe in 94 and opened up the UPS initial hub. And it was a big deal for Rockford then and it obviously still is today because the number of jobs
 has grown dramatically i believe like said mayor uh at christmas time there'll be over 2 000 people working at that center it's the second largest ups hub in the nation and i think most people in rockford probably don't even realize that so i wanted to make that that fact known because it is a big deal it's still a big deal and we need more people like fred ford they're willing to take the time and effort to take a chance and go knock on someone's door and i think rockford can continue to do that and and to get other uh
 corporation entities like UPS to come to Rockford and to build here. Thank you. Certainly. Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. Since Alderman Hervey seated her time, I guess it gives me a little bit more time. I would like to add on to what you talked about, Mayor, and Alderman Frost. That was an exciting luncheon today with the UPS CEO. Here is a multi-billion dollar company.
 that is known throughout the world. And to listen to him talk so highly of our city was just very exciting. And I think for the naysayers that...
 that live throughout our city I would say please crawl out of your hole and experience some of the positive things we have going here in our city and I think we're on the right track thank you thank you
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. And I'll maybe continue the same vein, and this concerns what we're voting on and already voted on in part tonight, and that's the Barbara Coleman project. It is certainly good to see that I think collaboration and partnerships are becoming the norm.
 in Rockford and kudos to Mr. Cagnoni. I've seen him work over the years. He's got sometimes the wisdom of Solomon and the equal of the patience. Sometimes these projects are challenging and corralling in 14 aldermen also to get on board with some of these projects sometimes can be a daunting task but we've seen a number of these things come together
 And I think this Barbara Coleman thing is a great thing, but it also does what the UPS project is doing. It shows outside investors, it shows residents and businesses that Rockford is willing to work together to make things happen in a positive way. So thanks to all that spent a lot of time to get this thing moving and investing in it.
 And I look forward to that. It's great to see that the city footprint is extending down South Main and recapturing these areas. And the positive development is spreading. So thanks to all for that. I'm very proud of our city. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I should want to say this. I was here in 1994. Yes.
 And from time to time, this city council's called on to really risk on areas. That was a big deal then, a $75 million deal. And the fact that our labor union said they'll get the thing built in six months. And this council ring, I think if we go back to the record,
 Everyone voted for that. And 20-some years later, I mean, the remarks that were said today were very heartwarming. And I don't think they were canned. It seemed to me at a moment he was just a bit emotional at that time when he really threw it right back on the left of the city. This award belongs to us and the people. It's a great, great thing to hear. I wish we'd capture that so we could play it for everyone. But thank you, Your Honor. True. Thank you. Other report? Yes.
 alderman hervey no okay um we are moving right along uh under unfinished business uh first we have uh finance and personnel alderman hervey thank you your honor the committee recommends approval of the city of rockford vehicle replacement plan that was laid over from may 21st of this year and that is the only one is there any discussion
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Wilderman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Cole. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Keonis. McNeely. Torelli. 12 ayes. You're on. Thank you. Next up, we have unfinished business ordinances laid over. Alderman Hervey again. This was made just for me.
 Okay, under item 8C1 is an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of not to exceed 3,500,000 general obligation refunding bonds. These are the sales tax alternate revenue source series 2018A, not to exceed 12 million taxable general obligation refunding bonds.
 sales tax alternate revenue source series 2018 C of the city for the purpose of refunding certain previously issued and outstanding general obligation bonds of the city payable from such revenue source Prescribing the details of said bonds and providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same Providing for the execution of an escrow agreement excuse me in connection with such issue issuance and
 and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof.
 um that we're going to be asking to suspend the rules i'll do those together item number two is an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of not to exceed five million five hundred thousand general obligation refunding bonds these are waterworks systems alternate revenue source series 2018b of the city for the purpose of refunding certain previously issued general obligation bonds of said city payable from such revenue source
 prescribing the details of said bonds and providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same and for the collection segregation and application of the waterworks system revenues to pay said bonds providing for the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchasers purchaser thereof and your honor i'll be requesting to suspend rules 9 and 15 for both of those items
 so we need to we have a motion and a second to suspend rules 9 and 15 for both items roman numeral 8 c 1 and 2. is there any discussion over the suspension of those rules director i just want to point out we had a late revision to these items that changed the amount on number one on the agenda from 3.5 million to 3.75 million for series 2018a
 And then for number two, there was no change in 2018C, but then under number two was increased from $5.5 million to $5.75 million for Series 2018B. I apologize for the confusion. That was a late change today. So, Your Honor, can we hold on the suspension of the rules? Do you want me to correct those? Yes.
 Director Myers? I think Director Haggerty made a record of the changes, so we should be okay. Okay, thank you. Do you want to repeat the whole? No, this is going to be a real short one. I don't like the rain. No, so just a motion to suspend Rule 15 on the corrected amounts. So we have a motion, then Alderman Beach provided the second. Is there discussion on the suspension of Rules 9 and 15?
 Alderman Thunberg. This and Spear Financial, I believe it's Spear in Chicago on this. I looked this over pretty thoroughly and I would like the taxpayers also to know that, to reiterate, this is not a new issue, this is a refunding. These bonds are in their call dates.
 It looks like we are going to save over two percentage points. We are going to make some investors rather mad by calling these back because there were some fat yields in these bonds, meaning we were paying as taxpayers a pretty stiff rate. So this makes absolute sense to do this, this refinancing of the existing bonds, and we are looking at to save...
 initial estimates were close to 1 million dollars with all yeah we're looking at saving the taxpayers about 1 million dollars a year on this refinance and we're saving again over looks like over 2 per 2 percent or more on the rate on this so thank you very much for everyone's work on this
 Yeah, I think that's all Director Haggerty wanted for her birthday was to save $1 million. And to those stock jocks out there, bonds aren't boring. It's pretty exciting they can be.
 Alderman Beach, I believe you had your hand raised. Yeah, I just wanted to ask the same question. What's a saving to the taxpayer? And that was covered by Alderman Thunberg. Thank you. Other further discussion on, we're still only on the, we have a motion and a second just to suspend the rules. All those in favor of suspending the rules 9 and 15 for both items 1 and 2 say aye. Those opposed?
 all right motion passes thank your honor i would uh place both those items up for passage thank you is there any discussion on items uh one and two before you seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll turkey logan toonberg ross irving thompson kelly hoffman rose beach keonis mcneely shirely 12 eyes your runner excellent the items pass
 the appointments uh continue to be laid over at least through october 24th next up we have finance and personnel with alderman hervey thank you your honor there are this is a shiarelli alderman shiarelli list there are 10
 Items up for passage. This is item 10C1 through 10. The first is an award of bid. Hartman and Center Street reconstruction to Stenstrom excavation of Rockford in the amount of $787,479. Excuse me, and 49 cents. Funding sources, the water replacement improvement account and sales tax.
 Item 2 is an award of bid. This is for asbestos abatement at 134 North Main to Hussar Abatement of Franklin Park, Illinois in the amount of $107,000. Funding sources US EPA Cleanup Grant 80% and CIP General Fund 20%. Item 3 is an award of bid for Traffic Signal Electrical Services.
 To William Charles of Loves Park and Engel Electric of Sterling, Illinois for an estimated annual value of $30,000. Contract duration is one year with two one-year extensions. The funding source is the traffic fund. Item four is an award of bid for 7th Avenue Water Main Loop to N-Track Group of Loves Park in the amount of $260,608.46. The funding source is the...
 Water replacement improvement account. Number 5 is an award of bid for 321 West State Street indoor outdoor market sidewalk repairs to A&A Construction Concrete of Rockford in the amount of $33,221.50. The funding source is sales tax and water replacement improvement account. Item 6, an award of bid for snow removal equipment and operations. Bid number 718.
 PW 070 to regional snow, regional snow services of Schaumburg for an estimated five year annual
 Average annual cost of $870,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is for one year with four one-year extensions. The funding source is the street division operating budget. Item 7, an award of bid for the Keith Creek Bank Stabilization Phase 1 to Civil Constructors of Freeport in the amount of $1,130,000.
 $956.03, the funding source is sales tax. Item eight, an award of bid, water work supplies and materials to Power Seal Pipeline Products of Wichita, Texas. Water products of Aurora, Illinois, J&R Supply of East Dubuque, Illinois, and Core in Maine of Belvedere, Illinois. The estimated contract amount is $1 million.
 $59,025.39 based on unit pricing as shown in the bid tabulation. The contract duration is one year, the funding source, water division operating budget. Item nine is award of a non-competitive bid. This is for chemical quid.
 Chemical feed equipment kidding and on-site service to Smith ecological systems of Rockford, Illinois. For an estimated amount of 50,000 dollars based on unit prices as shown in the bid tabulation, the contract duration is through December 31st, 2018. The funding sources water division operating budget.
 And finally, item 10 is award of a non-competitive bid for three police undercover vehicles to Greater Rockford Auto Auction of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $59,800. The funding source is drug asset forfeiture funds. I place those 10 items up for passage. Thank you. We have 10 items before us. Is there discussion on any of the 10 items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Mayor Key? Aye. Aye.
 Logan and Tunebert frost Hervey I Thompson college Hoffman Rose Beach Keonis McNeely Shirelli While I's your honor excellent items pass Next up. We have alderman Rose with planning and development. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under new business for ordinances, we have an ordinance approving a development agreement with Rock Valley Community College and Rockford Local Development Corporation for the advancement of Coleman Village. Phase one, the agreement provides a framework of roles and responsibilities for implementing the advanced technology center. The second item is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the Illinois Tollway Authority regarding maintenance at the I-90 gateway entrance at East State Street.
 Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on the two items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey? Aye. Lobanman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Culley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye.
 McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. That's 12 ayes, Your Honor. Excellent, thank you. Both items passed. Next up, we have Code and Regulation. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have eight items this evening. I have an ordinance establishing an all-way stop at the intersection of 18th Street and 10th Avenue, thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of 18th Street and 10th Avenue.
 An ordinance establishing stop control of Hampton Ridge Drive stopping for Lund Avenue I have an ordinance establishing a parking restriction of no parking any time on the south side of Halstead Road from Sablewood Drive to 75 feet west of Sablewood Drive number four is approving the special use permit for passenger vehicle sales at 918 Broadway and Fort
 14XX South 6th Street. Number 5 is an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the required side yard setback from 6 feet to 4 feet 1 inch along the east property line for a 28 feet by 14 feet addition to the residence and attached garage at 4979 Runquist Court.
 That will require ten votes, your honor. Number six is an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the required front yard setback from 35 feet to 22 feet along the west property line for a 22 feet by 8 feet front porch. And a variation to reduce the required side yard setback from 6 feet to 5 feet, 0 feet, I'm sorry.
 5.05 feet along the south property line for an attached garage and a variation to reduce the required year. Rear yard setback from 30 feet to 727.03 feet along the east property line for an attached garage at 4816. Skokie circle number 7 is an ordinance approving a modification of his existing liquor license.
 To allow the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with an Italian cafe and video gaming facility at 1620, 1626, 1616 North Bell School Road. And number eight is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a retail store at 2432 and 2420 South Alpine Road. I place those eight ordinances up for passage, your honor.
 Thank you. We have eight items before us this evening. Any further discussion on these eight items? Alderman Rose. For number three, the no parking at Sablewood Drive. It's been a bit of contention in my ward on some things that we're trying to do to proactively take on some crime issues. And so I'm going to continue to work with the Rockford Police Department and the city to address those issues. And we
 we're aware of the problem and we're going to continue to work on some of those crime issues. So I appreciate support on number three. Thank you. Other discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? No, I'm seven. Loganman? Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Hervey? No, I'm seven. Aye. Thompson-Culley? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Aye. Keonis? McNeely? Chiarelli? Aye.
 12 ayes on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8. And 9 ayes, 3 noes on number 7. So all items pass. Thank you. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel, Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number 1 is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement for the acceptance of the STEP grant.
 for fiscal year 2019 in the amount of $32,736 from the Illinois Department of Transportation. Item two is an ordinance approving the acceptance of the grant award for the Department of Justice Office of Violence Against Women Improving Criminal Justice Responses Program grant in the amount of $449,870.
 Item 3 is an ordinance approving the submission of a request for a waiver of $138,450 of the non-federal share requirement under the Early Head Start Child Care Grant from the Office of Head Start for the grant period ending June 30, 2018. And item 4 is an ordinance approving the City of Rockford Vehicle Replacement Plan
 place those four items up for passage thank you we have four items before us is there any discussion on the four before us seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the role durkee logan timberg frost hervey thompson kelly hoffman rose beach keonis mcneely shirely it's 12 eyes your own thank you first i'd like to say
 Sheila has not done this job for two years and I think did a phenomenal job this evening. This last thing before I ask for a motion to adjourn, I just want to say a special thank you to Mr. Cagnoni for the amount of work which was highlighted by Alderman Berkey for the Barbara Coleman project. The collaboration is a fantastic thing, but also working through so many partners is a really difficult thing, and he has done that tremendously well. So we thank you.
 Is there a motion to adjourn? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.