Excellent. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, October 4th, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Prenti. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Here. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Here. 14 present. Thank you.
 Excellent we have a full house and a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the strategic planning session held on August 30th 2021? We have a motion we have a 2nd, is there any discussion on those meeting minutes? See no discussion all those in favor say aye. Those opposed same sign.
 Motion passes. Next up, we have three proclamations this evening. The first one that we have is for Italian American Heritage Month. And I believe we have Karen and Mike here with us and a whole host of others. Come on up. Awesome. You know what? Stand over here. That way people at home can see.
 Whereas the month of October was first designated Italian American Heritage Month in the United States in 1989 to honor the achievements and contributions of Americans with Italian lineage. And whereas between 1880 and 1924 over 4 million Italians immigrated to the United States for a new and better life.
 And whereas the many contributions in the field of business, education, military service, as well as the arts by Italian Americans have enriched our Rockford community for decades. And whereas the United States welcomed people from the countries that helped create the nation we have today.
 And as Americans celebrating Italian American Heritage Month provides an opportunity to feel proud of the richness and the diversity of the Italian cultures that are part of our history. Now, therefore, I, Thomas B. Maxmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 2021 to be Italian American Heritage Month. Would you like to share a few words? Yes.
 I want to thank the mayor and the city council for acknowledging Italian American Heritage Month again as we do every year. I'd like to give just a thank you to all my other fellow Italian Americans that have come with me tonight to represent ourselves and Greer and all the other Italians in this community. For those of you who don't know me, which are probably many in this room, my name is Mike Maffioli. I'm a fifth generation Italian American. My family was the first to settle in Rockford in 1878.
 So we've almost been here about 150 years. A lot of the things on the list we've been involved in. We've been in all the community as much as possible, and especially on the Italian-American side, to help promote ourselves and the community at large to educate and to continue to show our good spirit in this community. So I just want to thank the mayor again and the city council for recognizing us. Thank you.
 I would just add, I know they'll be leaving, but Gria has done a phenomenal job, and I know a lot of folks know Festa Italiana, but you look at the impact that you have had in the lives of so many through education and the dollars that you have raised, hundreds of thousands, and so many other initiatives you have done. Just want to say thank you. We really appreciate it. Thank you. Yep.
 Next up, we have National Bullying Prevention Month, and Lori Davey, Program Manager of Autism Program at Easter Seals, and maybe some others are with us. This is for you. Do you want me to put this right here?
 Whereas, bullying is physical, verbal, sexual, or emotional harm or intimidation intentionally directed at a person or group of people. And whereas, bullying occurs everywhere, in our neighborhoods, playgrounds, schools, and through technology such as the internet and cell phones known as cyberbullying.
 And whereas researchers have concluded that bullying is the most common form of violence affecting millions of American children and adolescents annually. And whereas targets of bullying are more likely to acquire physical, emotional, and learning problems.
 and whereas students who are repeatedly bullied often fear going to school, riding the school bus, and attending community activities and are at a greater risk of engaging in serious violent behavior. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 2021 National Bullying Prevention Month. Thanks for all the work that you do, and would you like to share a few words?
 Thank you for having me. I believe that all of us experience some form of bullying, the long-term outcomes of the bully, the witness, or the victim.
 is just not a good thing. So we as a community need to come together, and we are choosing kindness. So if you can, do something kind for yourself and somebody else today and every day. And individuals with autism are typically bullied at a higher rate, so that's why Easter Seals is involved, and we're very proud of...
 Mayor McNamara for always supporting this and all of you for letting us be here today. So thank you very much. Thank you. Absolutely. When I'm done, I'll run.
 I would just say, if you haven't signed up for Lori's email list, she has a lot of great resources that she puts out on a very regular basis. Next up, we have Domestic Violence Awareness Month, and we have Jennifer Cacciapaglia, as well as, I believe, a whole host of members of the Family Peace Center team, who are really not shy, but they're just coming in. That way the TV can...
 Looks like you guys have been growing, which is a wonderful thing. So, whereas domestic violence is an epidemic affecting members in every community, regardless of age, economic status, sexual orientation, gender, race, religion, or nationality, and whereas in 2020 the Rockford Police Department responded to over 6,800 domestic violence-related calls for service, additionally, in Rockford, Illinois, on average,
 60 to 75% of youth arrested for violent offenses were witness to or victims of domestic or sexual violence prior to their arrest.
 And whereas, in just over one year of service, the Family Peace Center has provided ongoing support, services, and hope to over 500 survivors and their children. And whereas, the City of Rockford recognizes that domestic violence has a devastating impact on our community and that improving the response to this problem requires a coordinated community response.
 And whereas throughout the month of October, the City of Rockford joins with others across the state of Illinois and the nation in support of survivors of domestic violence, as well as individuals, agencies, and organizations in our community who are committed to the work of walking beside survivors every day as they navigate their path to safety and healing.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 2021 to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month. And I would say if you have not had an opportunity to get to the Family Peace Center, please do so. Schedule an opportunity to do a tour. The work that all of you are doing is nothing short of remarkable.
 I get to hear a lot of the wonderful stories and feedback, and you are really impacting lives. So thank you for the work, and I'll hand it over to Jennifer. Thank you, Mayor. And if we could, I would like to ask all of the members of our team who are gathered here tonight to just introduce themselves and just give you their title. My name is Nicole, and I'm an intern at FPC. My name is Erica. I am a case manager.
 My name is Mary and I'm an intake navigator. My name is Talaya and I'm a case manager. My name is Quoshayla Brewer. I am the R3 project manager. My name is Whitney Simpson. I am the Victims of Crime Illinois Hills project manager. Hi, my name is Dominique and I'm a frontline crisis navigator. My name is Rebecca and I am a case manager. My name is Monica. I'm a mental health counseling intern. My name is Nicole and I'm a case manager. My name is Sierra Kellen and I'm the operations manager.
 And I'm Andrea Carlson. I'm the Deputy Director of the Mayor's Office on Domestic and Community Violence Prevention.
 So asked us to make sure she was represented. But it was very important for the mayor and I to have our team from the Family Peace Center here because we wanted you to see the women who come into that space every day and hold space for the survivors and their families and their children who are in some of the most traumatic points of their life and who hold hands with them and link arms and make sure they do not walk out of our space ever without hope and knowing that they will not be alone again.
 We also wanted to take the time to really recognize the bold leadership of the City Council and this administration and taking a completely different approach to how we address root causes.
 sources of our violent crime and getting a new approach and trying to do some restorative practices so that we can heal our community and come together around these issues that we've been grappling with for decades and so we're grateful for your continued leadership and support so that we can continue to do the work not only at the Family Peace Center but in the systems change that we're doing around our community with every organization who touches these survivors and their families.
 And then finally, we wanted to accept this as Family Peace Center team on behalf of every survivor in this community. If you are a survivor and you have made your way to us, we are so honored to have spent time with you and held space for you. And if you have not, we want you to know that we are here, we see you, we believe you, and we are here whenever you are and can find time and space to come to us. So thank you all very much. Okay, thank you. Next up is...
 public hearing we have a public hearing tonight for proposed 2022 budget and appropriation ordinance i'll turn that over to alderman frost yeah with respect to the public hearing i hereby call the public hearing on the proposed 2022 municipal budget and appropriation ordinance to order
 pursuant to 65 ilcs 5 8 2-9 a public hearing must be conducted by the city council prior to the adoption of the appropriation ordinance notice of this hearing was given by publication that rockford is your star on september 22nd 2021 that notice informed citizens of rockford that a copy of the proposed budget and appropriation ordinance could be reviewed in the finance department on the third floor of city hall
 425 East State Street, Rockville, Illinois from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. The proposed budget was also available online on the city's website. Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed appropriation ordinance? If so, please kindly step to the microphone and give us your name, address, and make your statement or ask your question. Seeing that no one has stepped forward, Your Honor, I would suggest that this public hearing is hereby adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Frost.
 Next up we will go to petitions and communications And first we'll go to planning and development other woman makes Thank you your honor under petitions and communications Item a under planning and development item number one. We have a memorandum from on Quinnette Parham Health and Human Services director regarding the recommendations for regrow tier two finalists and that has been referred to the Planning and Development Committee and
 Thank you next. We'll go to code and regulation committee alderman rose. Thank you. Your honor. We have 3 items.
 The first item is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager for permits and special events regarding upcoming special events for the spooky stroll and stroll on state referred to code and regulations committee. The second item is the traffic commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on October 6, 2021 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on October 25th, 2021 referred to code and regulation committee.
 The third item is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 16-149, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you.
 We have no items underneath finance and personnel, so we'll move along. Next, that brings us to public speakers. I'll remind all of our public speakers there's a microphone on the back right and the back left. You have three minutes to address the city council. You will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring asking you to close up your comments. The first public speaker this evening is Curtis Perry. Do you need me to say his name?
 Is Curtis Perry with us? We'll come back at the end in case he's downstairs or wants to come forward. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs 17, I love it. Proverbs highlights several benefits of keeping quiet. First, it's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who are wiser. Make sure to pause, think, and listen so that when you do speak, you have something important to say. Walk a mile in my shoe. This lyric came out in May the 10th.
 Trust, trust, trust.
 Our people have very little trust in our government when it comes to telling the truth. A large number of voters, women, young people, and those who are black or Latino have showered on President Biden's performance. According to the poll conducted since the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan, the U.S. Border Patrol said that more than 9,000 migrants from
 mostly from Haley's, was being held in a temporary staging area under the Del Rio International Bridge as the agencies worked as quickly as they could to process them. This is not the first time, but before
 Ever since Haiti got their freedom from slavery, the peoples in the United States, Europeans had always had a very dislike towards Haiti. They made no qualms about hurrying up and shipping them back to Haiti where the tornado have taken, destroyed a lot of their land, the earthquake have destroyed a lot of their land, and then their president was killed.
 to continue
 to continue and and uh confusing debate in recent weeks over the coronavirus booster shop have exposed a fundamental weakness in united states ability to respond to a public health crisis the data is a mess how many people have been infected at this point no one knows for sure in part because insufficient tests and incomplete reporting have many fully vaccinated people have been
 have had breakthrough infection. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention decided to track only a fraction of them. What do the incontinent people who have taken this shot need to take a booster shot? American Fishers tried to answer that. They have relied heavily on data bases from abroad. I want to go back to where I'm going with this.
 Going back, so we wonder where I'm going with this. Last year, when this country shut down, Renewal Turning Point, 100 Strong, and a few churches went to the front line. Last year, I was asked about the coronavirus-19. I was blown out by the system trying to call me a liar and trying to blackball me. However, everything that's done in the dark will come to the light. Everything I said came true. I just want to thank you for going against me. What you have done...
 Okay. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. Andrew Wright. Good evening. Apparently, Peaches history is more important than Rockford history. If you don't agree with their plan, it must be because you don't care about women or children. At least that's what Dr. Cat Williams of the IWBC suggested in the Rockford Register Star this weekend.
 And that seems to be the best reason they can give you for construction of a museum on Byer Park property and not the land the friends of Byer helped them acquire on Seminary Street. It's not that they can't, it's that they don't want to. One building isn't enough. They need two. First, don't pretend to be protecting Peach's history when their descendants are telling you on the record they do not want construction on Byer Park. You aren't honoring the women themselves.
 who played there by reshaping the field they played on. Second, don't make this decision without talking to the women who played baseball. The Rockford Starfires have called Bayer home for years and they've told you multiple times, don't build on Bayer. Third, selling the acre for construction will forever change how that field is used. Every encroachment from Bayer School to the widening of seminary has caused friends of Bayer to make concessions.
 lose a little piece of the history we fight so hard to protect a field the Park District has left to grow to weeds let the stands bend and rust and the ground erode uneven and dangerous that field is important because of its history that's why we're all here that's why someone came along wanting to raise ten million dollars for a museum a museum we all want
 As for an activity center that's built around baseball, batting cages, and an umpire school, we love those ideas, and we know those things can go anywhere. I counted all the dangerous buildings or vacant lots on 15th between Kishwaukee and the river, all within a half mile of Byer Park. There are 10 of them, one of them right across the parking lot from Byer School. Did you ever think to use one of these might improve the neighborhood more than building on open parkland?
 Just five laps around the bases from Byer is Marinelli Field, with its faded sign, its broken left field fence, boarded up ticket house, overgrown land, light and dark, and seats empty. There are two diamonds at Marinelli. There's sewer and water and power and parking and storage. Everything you could want if you're looking for a baseball-themed activity center.
 Instead, we watch Marinelli rot and fade in the same way they watched Byer Stadium crumble 30 years ago. It's why friends of Byer had to form in the first place, the neglect of our history. Why are we so angry? Why do we come time and time again to testify and speak to you? It's because we care, because this park matters to us. We want this to be done right. There's yet to be any justification for constructing any building on Byer Park. Thank you.
 Tell them to do better. Demand a better proposal. This should have been a home run. Instead, it's been fouled. Thank you. Vote no. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. The Bible. O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do unto thee? For your goodness is as a morning cloud, and as the dew that goeth away.
 Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets, I have slain them by the words of my mouth, and thy judgments are as the light that goeth forth. For I desire goodness in thy sacrifice, and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings. Jesus, God, was primarily, was not primarily in the church. God was and is in the midst of needy, sinning, aspiring, and failing humanity. And religion was not professional piety.
 Religion means work. Religion means work in a dirty world. Religion means peril. Blows given, but blows taken as well. Religion means transformation. The world is to be cleansed by somebody, and you and I are not called of God if you are ashamed to scour and scrub. Scour and scrub the racism off the community of Rockford, Illinois.
 that ignores the plight of thousands of black citizens, the community seems bereft of any serious attempt at collaboration with indigenous group, says this group I lead, to address this malady. The state of Illinois has received some $25 billion under ARPA, and the Rockford area at least $108 million.
 and yet no sincere effort at collaboration to bring jobs, some of whom, some of which will pay $70,000 to $120,000 in advanced manufacturing to this area without a college degree. I cite a congresswoman by the name of Joyce Beattie, a black woman who's chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, whose efforts in her district should be instructive
 of all of the black politicians in Winnebago County and what enlightened black politicians do. She helped get $30 million for a $225 million revitalization project of Columbus, Ohio's East Side, her district, $3 million in federal funds to help Central Ohio youth at risk of homelessness and other bad situations.
 No politician in this community comes close to even suggesting such financial support for Westside Rockford. But rest assured, city, county, politician, she is being apprised of this sick situation in Rockford, certainly by us, that has persisted for decades right to this day. Change is coming, Rockford. So you religious folk, the sincere ones that is, get ready to scour and scrub
 As I close, I say I'm glad to say that I support the efforts of Linda McNerney to become a congressperson because I think what she could do imitating Joyce Beatty. Thanks. Our next public speaker is Amanda Brown. Good evening. My name is Amanda Brumman.
 I, along with my parents and three of my four grandparents, are lifelong Rockford residents, and I have been a member of Rockford Starfire's women's baseball since 2013 under coach Greg Schwanke, who also heads Friends of Bayer and has been the primary driving force behind resurrecting Bayer Stadium from literally nothing. I love my city and love to see when it thrives and when there are opportunities for further advancement.
 but not at the unnecessary expense of Rockford's history. While it has always been our position that we want a museum and an activity training center and economic opportunity for the Bayer community and Rockford as a whole, I have many questions regarding the evolution of this project, and I feel a lot of those questions haven't been publicly raised and put before you. So I'd like to pose some of those now before a vote is taken, an irrevocable vote.
 Number one, why are we even considering building on Byer Park Grounds on the remnants of our century-long sports history? And on the existing green space which is of premium value over there? That alone should be the end all to this matter, hands down. But let's continue. Number two, why is it that the museum has to be built on park grounds? For years the plan was to build on the donated property across the street.
 Why did that change without the knowledge of IWBC board member Greg Schwanke? It's my understanding that that is illegal and grounds for lawsuit. Number three, has any consideration been made given to where teams will warm up during tournaments, clinics, camps, etc., if the museum is built on Byer grounds? Because that will virtually eliminate the current warm-up area. Number four, why isn't the originally donated land on seminary enough?
 It's quite a large space. Why not build up? Why not build down? What about a completely different parcel? My understanding is the city owns other properties in that area. Has that been explored? And number five, finally, it was mentioned at the meeting last week that Rockford has passed up or lost too many opportunities throughout the years. It was also mentioned that the IWBC had offers to go elsewhere. But would that actually happen?
 I don't think it would for several reasons. Firstly, Rockford is the draw. Rockford is the home of the Peaches, the most successful and most popular team of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League. Not Kenosha, not Racine, not South Bend. Rockford is the spot.
 Secondly, the IWBC is already all in on Rockford. They have already invested countless hours and dollars into making connections with various influential entities. Thank you. And spent $250,000 to $216,000 in grant monies, which they would have to pay back. Thank you. We ask that you read the full statement and consider your vote or hold over the vote. Thank you. And we do have the full statement, Alderman, for your, on your desk.
 Next up, we will move to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, so we will move to code and regulation committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have a lot tonight. Item 1, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action on the following item. Request to establish a parking restriction of 3 hour parking on the east side of Hall Street from East State Street to East Jefferson Street. Thus repealing the existing restriction of 2 hour parking on the east side of Hall Street from East State Street to East Jefferson Street.
 Item 2, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4970 Linden Road. Item 3, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development for a museum campus, activity center, baseball field, and parking lot in an I-1 light industrial zoning district and R-2 two-family residential zoning district at 311 15th Avenue, 1706 Magnolia Street.
 And 1611 and 1711 seminary street subject to amended conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item for the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a variation to reduce the front yard setback from 50 feet to 30.5 feet.
 To allow a free standing canopy over the drive through lanes along North Perryville Road in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 280 North Perryville Road subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare their appropriate ordinance.
 Item 5, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial for a special use permit for a planned unit development for indoor residential self-storage warehouses in an R1 single-family residential zoning district and a C1 limited office zoning district at 803 South Mulford Road.
 Item 6 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of non-emergency medical transportation office and transportation vehicles and an r3 multi residential zoning district at 3427 North Rockton Avenue subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance a
 Item 7 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of special use permit number 0 4 5 19 to remove condition for multi-purpose circulation path easement and an r4 multifamily residential zoning district at 215 Easton Park Easton Parkway subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance a
 Item 8, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a zoning map amendment from County AG Agriculture to City, RE Rural Estate and item B, special use permit for a cemetery in an RE Rural Estate residential zoning district at 4130 Black Hawk Road, 5845 35th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 We're almost there. Committee recommends under item 9, the sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a special use permit for indoor residential self storage warehouses and a parking lot in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 4830 and 4870 North Main Street and 48XX North Main Road subject to conditions the illegal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 10 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a tavern in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 1241 Broadway Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I
 item 11 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for a the sale of packaged liquor and b the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in an i-1 light industrial district at 1909 11th street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance 12 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for a the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a casino
 With slot machines, outdoor seating area and restaurant and be the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a casino with slot machines, outdoor seating area and restaurant in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 610 North bell school road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare their appropriate ordinances.
 And finally, 13, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to Section 3-5A of the City of Rockford Liquor Code for the new no gaming license classification. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. That's it. All right. So, sorry, just want to draw your attention. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Draw your attention to item three, legal.
 And you have a document on your desk entitled Committee Report. It lists all ten conditions. That tenth condition we want to make you aware of was the condition that Alderman Bonney put forward a motion and amendment to which I'll read for you that states that International Women's Baseball Center shall file an application with the Illinois Department of Natural Resources.
 State Historic Preservation Division to submit the buyer ticket house and steps for consideration of the National Register of Historic Places. Just want to make sure that you know you have that and why you have it. So, Alderman, we have 13 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 13 items? We have Alderman Rose and Alderman Quinones. So, Your Honor, just to...
 Give clarification for the Alderman. Number five is a denial, so a yes would be for the denial of number five. Just so people are aware of that item, the way it's written. Thank you, you're right. For item five, a yes vote is actually a no vote. Alderman Quinonez. Yes, I got a question on item three. And I also got one on item for the casino, item 12.
 The first one on item three is, like I said before, I'm not against the museum being built. I wish they would have stuck to the original plans they were going to build where both sides were happy. The Friends of Bayard put a lot of work and money in the Bayard Stadium in my ward. So I can't vote against them tonight. So I'm going to be a Friend of Bayard tonight and vote no. And on my other question, 12, what do we need?
 When they pay the entry fee, what is the yearly fee we're going to charge a casino? Director Kegnone, or Mr. Kegnone? So the annual liquor license fee hasn't been determined. It'll be part of the fee schedule that comes before City Council in the coming weeks. So you're still yet to be able to determine that? Council will. Alderman Thunberg. Just for clarification, the hours on the casino for liquor,
 Director Meyer as of right now leave under the ordinance that was passed by council. The hours are tough they can serve alcohol till 4 a.m. And then Re-establish service at 930 a.m. News team is super excited about that. Just want to make you aware I'll make sure alderman frost gets home in an ample time The ordinance before you follows the state law I
 Council passed an ordinance establishing a casino license and that casino license in terms of hours of service and operation is consistent with what's allowable under the Illinois Gaming Act, Gambling Act.
 Alderwoman Wilkins, did you have your hand raised? I did, thank you, Your Honor. What was staff's reasoning for the denial for number five, the self-storage on South Mulford versus approval for the residential storage on North Main? Director Franzen?
 the staff denial was based on the best land use uh so on the soft moulford mulford it's a r1 and c1 i believe if my memory serves correctly with residential uses directly adjacent up on north main you have existing self-storage there and so the additional self-storage doesn't have the same impact thank you
 Any other discussion from aldermen on the items before us? Alderman Beach. I'd like to also talk about that the number one, that'd be number 12 at the casino. If we pass the 4 o'clock hour, do we have any idea what that happens to all the other hour restrictions on every other license in the city of Rockford? What effect will that have on that? Director Meyer? We've already passed an ordinance allowing the...
 Holder of a casino license to remain open till 4 a.m. So that was part of the order when we established the the old Liquor license for casino the hours of operation were included in that ordinance Several weeks ago when we passed that well Absolutely ultimate your honor. I understand what you just said what I'm saying is let's find other bars in town
 that are required to close at 2 o'clock. I'm saying what does our action, even a few weeks ago or months ago, and our vote tonight going to do with every other bar owner that says, well, if they can be open until 4 o'clock, we want to be open 4 o'clock, and is that what we want to do? I'm just asking what do we have to deal with that issue because it most certainly will come up.
 Yeah, truthfully, it has. And so I would say a whole host of things, right? I mean, the two are drastically different. One, to gain entry into a regular bar field is about $10,000 for the liquor license in Rockford. To even simply have the privilege of applying before this body, the casinos had to put forward $250,000 just to apply, to be one of the three with us.
 then with the regular bars they would pay a property tax a beverage tax etc casino will do all that and on top of that we've negotiated with them a seven point two million dollar guaranteed revenue stream for the city of Rockford so I don't look at them as equals one is
 providing the city of rofford through our negotiated and mutually agreed upon terms far more in return And there's one of those Okay, I appreciate your response. I'm not sure I totally understand the way it is I understand the money you're talking about in in the seven million We understood that but I do see a lot of people coming forward to want to
 Want to move their their time from and we've we talked about that quite a bit Uh, are we also supposed to debate this uh number three? While we're doing it in hours, we're going to hold that out and do that separately No, we have 13 items before you you can talk about any of the 13 you'd like Well, i'd like to continue if you don't mind your honor, of course as we've been listening and reading
 We see there's about three players in this situation, no pun intended, the front of the Byers, International Women's Baseball Center, and the Rockford Park District, which owns the property. And I will say again, as I said a couple of weeks ago when I discussed this with the chairman of the committee, Alderman Rose, that if I had a preference, I'd want to believe that as far as it seems that the players are a part,
 they could really be pretty close together. And so I said, if this is votes coming back before this chambers, I said to Bill, I said, can't we somehow get the players in the room one more time to see if we can work out a compromise that keeps it the way it was originally thought to be and make that center, that could be center, a possible thing. I'm told the answer is no.
 I've talked to members of the Friendsford buyer. I know that they want this all to happen, at least those that I've talked to, three members. But, and I've talked to several aldermen around the horn about this issue. So I guess from my point of view, this is a decision that should have been worked out with them, not with us. It should have been their responsibility to come up with what's best for Rockford.
 So if I'm going to be asked to vote tonight, then I'm just going back to the zoning board and say, what did they say they should do? They're the ones that were given the option to deal with this, and it was laid over. Additional information came, and they went ahead and voted 7-zip to approve it. The city council, through the codes and regs, did the same thing. Do you think I like that idea? No, but I look at what our responsibility is, and that's what's really before us.
 That's why I wish that we could have gone back one more time. And got all the players said, look, before this boat comes down here in this council chamber, can we try one more time, just one more time to make it work for the best of this community? And I only let that be up to the aldermen to decide whether that's good or not. But that's that's where I'm thinking tonight, Your Honor. I feel very sad about it.
 Don't like to see the headlines in the paper that says that we're dividing the city. No, we're not dividing the city We are not dividing the city I don't like to even think that the point of it is there's three players the friends of the buyers the women Their international team and the park district. They're the ones that are in the mix of this They're the ones that bringing yes or no to us. So again, if this council would think it would make sense and
 To try to hold it one more week try to get the people together one more time I'd support that if not, I'm afraid I'm going to be following the dictates of the zoning board Thank you, Your Honor for letting me speak. Thank you alderman frost I was just gonna ask if we could hold out item number three and Handle it individually. So you'd like to vote on the twelve items vote on three separately Is there any opposition to doing that? You do would need a second
 All right. Those in, is there a discussion on just holding this item out so you can have discussion on it separately? Alderman Frost, why he wants to hold this out. He doesn't want to hold it out. He just wants to get through the 12 items so then everyone can focus their discussion on just one item. I'm good on voting on it tonight. Yeah. Yes. Thank you. So we have a motion. We have a second. Is there any further discussion on just simply separating this item? Holdout may not be the right word. Let's use the word separate. Separating. Separating.
 All those in favor of separating item three, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. So we'll separate item three. So now you have 12 items before you. One, two, four through 12. We will go to Alderman Rose, Alderman McNeely, then Alderman Quinonez. Thank you, Your Honor. We're talking about all the items but that one. Both. Okay. I'll go back then.
 Alderman McKinney. All right thank you. I would ask that we hold out 12 as well. All right. Is there any objection to separating item 12? No objection. Do you want it held out or do you want it? I want it just held out for this moment. Separate it. Okay.
 Not the best choice of words. I need a mathematician when I'm done with this. So we have a motion to separate item 12. Do we have a second to separate 12? Second. Those in favor of separating item 12, say aye. Those opposed to separating item 12, okay. So we'll come back to 3 and 12. Anyone else want to separate a specific vote? Let's get that out of the way.
 are you saying you want to separate all right all right bear with me toughy all right now we'll go to alderman quinones yes uh your honor uh question on 13 uh the new license here says that it'll come with no gaming license that's right do they have the right in the future to reapply for a gaming license after we issue that director mark
 So if somebody's issued under this new ordinance a liquor license that does not permit gaming, they would get this no gaming license if like any other license that we previously issued that didn't allow gaming, they could apply for a modification and come back before council to seek the video gaming terminals.
 Thank you. Any other, uh, Mr. Cagnoni? Just for clarification, they're not modifying the no gaming license. They would be reapplying for a license that allows gaming. Yes. Okay. Alderman Prentice. Um, I, I'm sorry. I, um, am not clear on number 13. Is, um, there was a SIP, some...
 S&S, is this the same thing? Nope. So this is a different license, not the sip and chop license. That's been held out, legitimately held out, not in front of us this evening. I'm trying to use every word in the dictionary. So that is not going to be before us this evening. This is just simply a license that doesn't include gaming.
 okay and alderman can jonas ask a question could they then come back and modify no they wouldn't modify they'd have to come back and ask for a new license okay thank you any other discussions on let me do the math one two four five six seven eight nine ten eleven and thirteen alderman prunty for number nine um can you just give us an idea of how many um uh storage
 Places are in that area already? Director Franzen? There are a number of indoor storage areas up north Maine. I wouldn't remember the exact addresses. There are some existing at this site. This would be an expansion of that footprint. In between, if you go south of Riverside, there are two additional ones. I don't know off the top of my head how many units, but there are a couple there. Thank you.
 Any further questions on the items we're talking about right now, which all exclude 3 and 12? Clerk, could you call the roll on all of the items except for item 3 and 12? Durkee. No on 6. I'm sorry. Yeah, no on 6. Is that your final answer? Yeah. Phone a friend. Alderman Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose.
 Beach on 11 only 12 were not voting on well, we have not come for we've separated that Quinones Meeks McNeely no on five and six three no on three five and six correct three We're not I on the remaining and we're not having three up for vote right now So just no on five and six. No, it's been it's been one heck of a start to our meeting alderman, Bonnie No on four
 Okay, so now, or do you want me to? Items 1, 2, 14 ayes. Item number 4, 5, 13 ayes, 1 no on each one of those. Item number 6, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item 7, 8, 9, 10, 14 ayes. Item number 11, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item 13, 14 ayes. Thank you. All of them pass. All right.
 Alderman Beach would like to change his vote on item 10 to a no so that's a no on 10 and 11 Alderman Beach. Yes Okay. All right Regroup we're talking about item 12 now. We have one item before you item number 12 Is there any discussion on item 12 clerk? Could you please call the roll on item 12? jerky logan Toomer frost Torino fronty Wilkins
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney. 13 ayes, 1 no. All right. Now we have one more item before us. Item 3. Is there any further discussion on item 3? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I agree with most of what Alderman Beach said on this issue.
 Investing $10 million in privately raised funds to build an international women's baseball museum in Rockford in a neighborhood sorely in need of redevelopment. That's a game changer. Yet here we sit, not feeling so peachy. The museum may be about baseball, but the project should not have winners and losers and never should have arrived at the city council doorstep in this shape.
 Let's be clear, and maybe a little more specific. It was not the Rockford City Council that led Byers Stadium slide into an irreversible state of disrepair that led to its demolition. That was the Rockford School District and the Rockford Park District. And the stadium came down, incidentally, about the same time the movie A League of Their Own came out nearly 30 years ago.
 Despite the immediate and enduring popularity of the film and its elevation of the Rockford Peaches to international prominence, it was not the Rockford City Council that relied on the efforts of volunteers to reclaim and maintain the ballpark that the park district owned where the Peaches played, only to sever relations with those volunteers after years of hard work and devotion. It was the Rockford Park District that benched friends of Byers
 much like you might dump your high school sweetheart for the pre-med student with a trust fund you met in college. Nor was it the Rockford City Council that failed to find an amicable resolution between two suitors, Friends of Bayer and the International Women's Baseball Center, who say they want the same thing and simply cannot agree on the specific location of a museum on its future campus.
 I asked the question during codes and regs last week if the park district ever requested our assistance to expand the museum's footprint. Either financial help or the donation of property the city already owns on the same block and the answer was no. IWBC argues a youth center is essential to the museum's long term success and the parcel and seminary is too small to accommodate two buildings and parking.
 IWBC also contends donations are being lost each day, a decision by the City Council is delayed, and the clock has run out to further expand the site and avoid placing the museum on the field. We could assume this is a bluff and deny the zoning request before us in an attempt to force the players back to the bargaining table. In my short tenure on this council, I can already name one recalcitrant developer who, after numerous delays,
 Only came forward with concessions following an unfavorable vote in committee. However, we have here three interested parties, two with legal standing and one without. Based on my conversations with IWBC and Friends of Bayer, I have no reason to believe a rejection of the zoning request would
 before us would result in a truce. I also don't believe IWBC would abandon the priceless marketing tie to Rockford and the film immortalized that immortalized the peaches. But I suspect there is truth in the argument that a project of this scope cannot easily sustain further delay. At the end of the day, we're faced with the zoning decision. Is the museum an acceptable land use under our ordinance?
 The decision to sell the land for that purpose, however, rests with the Park District, and that's where the public pressure should continue to be applied. For now, I'm okay with the proposal as amended in codes and regs last week to require IWBC to apply for the historic peaches ticket booth and limestone steps to be added to the National Register of Historic Places.
 and i'll trust iwbc to honor its word to listen to all proposals including to expand the site's footprint and the muse and move the museum off the field after but not before receiving our approval in this step of the project thank you thank you alderman alderwoman terena uh thank you mayor i just wanted to say that
 I did appreciate the letters from all the different members in the community that represented both sides. I think it's important for me to see so many people in this community be civically engaged and be.
 Just passionate and show passion, express passion to their elected officials about just how they feel about their community and get around a subject. So I just wanted to honestly just say thank you to the community members that did, again, write letters and call me and text me and all those different things to just express their opinion. I've been very vocal about what side I'm on. I will be voting yes for this.
 the development. I feel very good about my decision. I want to see the development in the area. I appreciate that they want to also include an activity center that will serve underserved individuals in this community. So I just want to pledge my support and again to state the community for the support that they showed whether what side you were on or not. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose.
 thank you your honor um i just wanted to mention you know uh kudos to the uh friends of buyer for the work that they've put in over the years um just uh an amazing group of people like uh alder alderwoman terena said uh probably some of the most civically engaged
 individuals in our community and and preserving history i sit on the historical commission i had an opportunity to see their both proposals uh vastly um before even council received it but this question come again comes back to a zoning issue and is is it appropriate for the iwbc to
 To have this is owned appropriately for their museum. It's not a question of where to put it. That that just is not what we're here to decide tonight and, um, like, like, um.
 Alderman Bonnie said, you know, some of these issues come from past circumstances with other bodies. That just simply didn't want to address this matter or didn't do it in an appropriate way. And so here we are tonight having to deal with it. What in the media and. And in different fashions, and as a city, we know that this is simply about zoning and.
 Moving this forward and so I'm really excited for the IWBC Them bringing this museum here I think it's something that is going to impact the south side of Rockford for many many many years to come I think it's gonna bring excitement of the sport baseball which has lost so many young people over the years We've seen a decline in baseball participation and
 In the last 20 years, I think it's going to get young women involved in sports more addressing some of the issues with title nine and just more activity overall in that area. And not even just the economic factor that plays into this that like alderman Bonnie says, this is a this is a game changer for us. And I'm looking forward to seeing the girls playing ball and I'll just end by let's play ball.
 Alderman, Toonberg Thank You mayor. I wish I had more time in my day to Make a well-written statement out, but I don't and so But yes, I would like to thank the individuals who I've spoken with over the past number of days and the energy and enthusiasm each side has towards this project and
 It's many times emotions can really be a significant part of this. I wish that, yes, that the three, I read over the MOU and it looked great. Unfortunately, that MOU was done when these three entities were all in cahoots.
 so unfortunately that MOU is is I Would hope that if this passes tonight that the friends of fire Could at some point rejoin in the conversations? I know they have been an integral part integral part in the past the
 some of the day I you know if individuals are voting no tonight on this or individuals that take the side that this should not happen I would say that to some that have alluded to the fact or to the fact alluded that your vote or your feelings towards this project
 makes you anti-community, anti-women, anti-kids, I would say that's just a bunch of garbage. It is not. And to allude that it is, I think, is almost outrageous. So I hate to see things like that thrown around willy-nilly. Okay.
 because I wouldn't believe that for anyone here that would vote no on the project or many members of our community that may side against it. So, but with that, all that said is that it's, I've been through a lot. We have been, many of us on council, some of us in our chambers with a previous project before our council.
 number a couple years ago so I feel I've been well broken in and not necessarily tonight do we do all of us agree or disagree with this but what I've come to find is that this really is more of a Park District issue
 Where they place this and what they do with it and decisions that have been made up until this point our job is Strictly as the city is to determine whether this zoning request meets our zoning requirements as a city and that's That's it. I mean I can I can side with either either one, but then unfortunately I
 Not what I feel is as the vote should be It's really as a city Council our job is to determine whether this endeavor in this request meets our Zoning requirements and that's it if there's a beef with things going forward take it up with the Park District take it up with the the
 iwpc um iwbc and friends of buyer but us here on council are just looking at a zoning situation and that's it so i thank you for your time mayor and uh thank you
 Thank You alderman Durkee Thank You Your Honor I just want to reiterate a few comments I Appreciate alderman Bonnie's and alderman roses remarks and I they're they're dead on And I agree with what we're voting on and it is troubling to see something that's so good for Rockford to come to the City Council with so much turmoil and
 I am I am not in favor of putting the museum on 15th, I I think it would do this is a personal opinion and I'm I don't have any I'm not writing the check. So nobody cares but You lose the campus feel when the buildings on 15th. I don't know how you how you do that and make landscaping on a postage stamp
 Nor do I believe that the, I think the rec center is a good idea. I think there's land south of that building that could be available. But I don't see people, there's two different crowds. People go to the museum and people going to the practice center. So.
 So I, you know, and the use of that land, I agree, it's not ours. And we're just, you know, we're voting on the ordinance. But I do find something that I don't know if it's a pattern, but I think it's something we should pay attention to. We've seen a couple of things from the Park District come our way. We've deprogrammed, it looks like, the sports factory. The last thing I saw on there, what they were planning on doing is basically...
 Turning it into a high school gym. They gave us some assurances when we voted on that project They would not deprogram sports core one on the west side of Rockford and and up in the north They have so they've done that they have you know really stirred the pot and and drop the ball on the Riverview Ice House, it's not what we see this and and
 I I'm the fact that they let buyer go to begin with I mean I'm looking at these things golf in Rockford has taken a hit I'm wondering what's going on with the Park District okay the Park District should have been a de-escalator in this and they they should have been able I don't know I wasn't in the room but something should have been de-escalated in this so I'm troubled to see it looks like a pattern and I'm wondering what's going on with the leadership of the Park District not the board
 But the only thing I can say to the friends of Bayer, the building's going to go in one spot or the other. Okay, that's not a win or lose. It's just where it is. And the only parallel I can draw, being a former Chicago kid, was Wrigley Field. When Citizens United for Baseball and the Sunshine came out and opposed the lights in Wrigley Field, you thought the earth was going to crash into the sun.
 Okay, the lights went on in Wrigley Field and guess what all those citizens United for baseball in the sunshine They go to Wrigley Field and and the area has done extremely well So I might pleaded a friends of buyer wherever that thing goes, please You don't don't stop your good work, you know find a way to reconcile and and and what however this project goes Let's get everybody back on board. I
 and make this thing great. And I look forward to seeing, I know we're probably putting something in the CIP to punch up 15th Street. And so I look forward to getting this approved and getting that area jazzed up for this good project. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I certainly appreciate everyone's comments on council tonight.
 And I most certainly appreciate the efforts of the Friends of Byron. It's not often that we have communities that come here and voice their concern and rally together for something that they've been working on for years and something that they love. So when I see constituents come out and come to city council,
 and put that concern before us, I'm quite appreciative. It's not my ward, but I'm very appreciative because I think it makes Rockford a better city overall. I for one will be supporting them. And we vote on stuff every week that supposedly we're supposed to be voting in accordance with what's on the books, but we all know that
 We don't always do that for one reason or another and I don't think that I can look at this issue It's simply black and white Simply a zoning issue. So I will be supporting the friends of the buyers tonight. Thank you other comments alderman frost Thank you. I really want to commend all of the all the older persons because I think everyone really has had a consistent on really the issue and
 That really is a zoning question. It's really whether or not we approve this planned unit development. And I started receiving calls back in June.
 from both sides uh not knowing you know the whole score of the game and the or what the really rules were and unfortunately over time i believe that you know as everyone else has indicated there is some sort of three-sided dispute and i agree uh the passion like you indicated that we've seen the civility has been i think what i've seen has been above board and i really appreciate the passion um
 Sometimes maybe you need to get back to a table with different players and different people at the table. And maybe that's what this really...
 this issue boils down to perhaps the organizations involved can get back to a table and have a reset maybe with different people there to try to work out and have a reset because you know as everyone's indicated the friends of buyer have done yeoman's work over the years for this site they don't own it i think they understand that or they should understand that but they've cultivated it and they've tried to preserve history in rockford and
 you know when when i see an editorial like i saw in the paper yesterday when you want to wear uh so many different hats uh saving the community saving the youth i mean please i think it's important to stick to what you know and what you want to bring there and i think really frankly that is the museum i think it's great to have an activity center there are other activity centers you know somewhere in the article i mentioned about a sports tourism center please
 We own the UW Sports Factory, ladies and gentlemen. We don't need any competition, all right? I mean, it's not that far away, and I don't know what type of sports tourism the activity center would bring. But I think if the IWBC sticks to their intentions, I think that they're good. I think it's great to have this come to light. I've heard the $10 million number thrown around a number of times. I challenge you to raise more.
 If you're going to go big or go home. So if you want to build this museum, let's make it, and you want to be the international museum in the country, make it worth people coming here, all right? The drawing I saw of the activity center did not merit that type of investment.
 So I'm going to vote yes because of what's before us. But at the same time, I think it is paramount to have a reset here. And it's not our fight, but I've heard enough about it now. I think folks can get back at a table and not alienate others and really make all of Rockford proud of what's destined to become. Thank you.
 Any further discussion on the one item that's still before us? Alderman Thunberg. One last thing, thanks Mayor. It'd be remiss for me to just mention with going forward, the ladies who play right now, the Starfire, with the Starfires. I had a very nice conversation with two of them, extremely polite.
 and something stuck out with me. So no matter what goes forward with this project, just remember there are ladies that are still playing baseball here, and as one of them said verbatim, all we want to do is play baseball. So with that said, I think we should, with this project going forward, just remember those words spoken by the members of the Starfire team themselves. Thank you.
 Any other comments on the one item that's before you? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. 12 ayes, 2 noes. Excellent. Thank you. We'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 number one the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of five million five hundred and fifteen thousand seven hundred and seventy dollars as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting held on september 27 2021
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Illinois EPA to establish a long-term household hazardous waste collection facility. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the purchase agreement for the sale of city-owned property at various addresses known as the Barber Coleman Complex with Jay Jeffers of Milwaukee, Wisconsin for $500,000.
 The sale of the property is necessary to provide site control that will allow a private developer to invest in completed market studies, engineering, and architectural services of a comprehensive master redevelopment of the property. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate orders.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the 2021 property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of 55,623,392 dollars for the levies in the corporate police protection, police pension, school crossing guards, fire protection.
 Fire pension, street and bridge, judgments, tuberculosis sanitarium, public library, public library maintenance of building, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers compensation, and auditing funds.
 The final city levy amount will be approximately 47164495 dollars. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate orders. Number 5, the committee recommends approval of the 2021 property tax levy for street and bridge purposes from 0.6.
 Of the value is equalized or assessed by the Department of revenue of all taxable property in the city of Rockford to 0.1. 0% of the value as equalized or assessed by the department revenue. Of all taxable property in the city of rocker, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 6, the committee recommends approval of the 2021 property tax abatements.
 For 2021, the debt service levy is $12,328,216 and will be abated in its entirety. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the 2022 budget and appropriation ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these seven items before you. Thank you. There's seven items before us. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Yes.
 Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Quick question. Where is the waste collection facility located? Dr. Franzen. It is on South Kishwaukee right next to Four Rivers Sanitary. So just north of Sandy Hollow. Thank you. Any other discussion on the seven items before you? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Aye.
 That was no on two? Yes. Wilkins? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Hoffman? Aye. Item number one, 14 ayes. Item number two and three, 13 ayes, one no. Items four, five, six, seven, 14 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll move to unfinished business. Committee reports laid over. We will go to
 Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a freestanding sign for a non-residential use in a residential district from 48 square feet to 57.5 square feet along North Alpine Road in an R1 single-family residential zoning district.
 at 4405 Highcrest Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Alderman the one item before you we've laid this over a couple of times. We'd ask that we Lay it over one more time because we don't believe it's gonna be necessary because all of it will now conform with the ordinance So we don't need you voting on it So if we could just hold it out because we believe that it will be in conformance with our ordinance So is there a motion to lay that over so moved? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion all those in favor say aye aye
 are those opposed okay thank you okay i'll move officers reports to the end here uh the we have appointments laid over there are 18 appointments before you none of them come up today so we'll go to motions and resolutions uh planning and development committee alderwoman meets
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Planning and Development Committee, item number one, the committee recommends approval of a resolution for the Bird City, Illinois initiative. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the one item before you? Hearing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Aye.
 Okay, next we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman rose. Thank you. Your honor. There's 1 item. The committee recommends approval of a resolution establishing Illinois liquor control commission appeals must be on the record. Is there any discussion about that? 1 item before you all those in favor say, aye. Those opposed okay next we'll go to finance and personnel.
 Alderman Frost. Thank you, ma'am. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the northeast sidewalk and ADA repair package number four to campus construction in Brockford in the amount of $88,866.75. The project is estimated to be completed by November 5, 2021. The funding source is sales tax. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for the Rockford police outdoor range to N track.
 in the amount of 139 456 dollars and 65 cents the funding source is the police police department operating budget number three the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for the water division vehicle purchase to rock river ford of rockford in the amount of 53 687.88 for one 20 22 ford transit t-150 cargo van the funding source is the water fund operating budget
 Number 4, the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of HUD continuum of care planning grant award from Department of housing and urban development in the amount of 73,873 dollars. The grant does require a 25% cost match. The grant term is from December 1, 2021 to November 30. 2022 number 5 is an award from bid for the city wide.
 uh crack ceiling 2021 to complete asphalt services of pittsfield in the amount of fifty thousand dollars the project is estimated to be completed by october 29 2021 the funding source the sales tax and number six is an award of bid for the city wide street repairs group six 2021 parking lots to rock road companies of janesville in the amount of 310 393.88
 the project is estimated to be completed by november 12 2021 and the funding source for the parking lots is bond proceeds and the property fund i place these six items before you thank you alderman so there's six items before you is there any discussion on those six items alderman beach thank you just a question on number six uh another do we group our purchases with other communities that need to buy the same thing or we all buy in by yourself
 Director Saunders. Alderman Beach, are you referring to number five? Yes, the 50,000. On the crack ceiling, we do have joint purchasing agreements with other municipalities. In this particular award, we're going at this alone, just the City of Rockford. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Alderman Frost, and then I'll come back to Alderman McNeely. Thank you. On number four, Your Honor, I believe what was in committee,
 25% cost match was going to be funded by another grant. Is that correct? Dr. Parker, yes, that is correct. The 25% cost match comes from our community services block grant. Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you. Uh, other woman Mcneely and then. Other woman Mcneely, thank you on item 2 for the police outdoor range.
 So I supported this before and I always support for the police and fire because I don't want them to be at a disadvantage on behalf of the public. However, I need to understand we have an indoor range and now we need outdoor range. We do not currently have an indoor range either. No. So the
 Looking at the outdoor range is actually beyond that and we will be collaborating with fire as well. That space is going to be more of an outdoor training facility, which will allow us to do, in addition to the regular qualifications that we have to do, utilization of SWAT, accident reconstruction. Fire will come out and do qualifications as well. And we recently hosted a bicycle law enforcement basic bicycle school.
 at the station and the officers actually had to ride to Belvedere because part of the course entails that they do a ride and qualify, but because we don't have an outdoor range, we had to, they had to ride to Belvedere to do that on bicycles. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you. I don't know if anyone knows this, but Director Myers actually rode 100 miles on a bike and all I can see is them being led by Director Myers. So I apologize.
 Alderwoman Hoffman. On number six, which parking lots is this concerning? Director Saunders. So it's lot 28 and 30, which is the municipally owned parking lots by the Wellness Center over at the Frank Crawl building, where a lot of our employees park as well as our city vehicles. Lot two, which is the lot closest to Capri.
 okay and then it's also uh the tunnel to city yards where our snow and ice fleet goes in um and parks their vehicles indoors thank you other woman meeks did you have your hand up yeah i just wanted to ask um regarding item number two um is the rockford police department currently you utilizing winnebago county's range
 It's a scheduling issue, so if we can, we will. But in addition to that, we had to pay rent out a couple times to go to Belvedere to use their outdoor range. Thank you. Other discussions on the six items before you? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney. 14 ayes. Excellent, thank you. Next up we'll go to new business and we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Rose.
 That long list again item 1, the ordinance proving the annexation of 4970 Linden Rd item 2, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for a museum campus activity center, baseball field and parking lot. And in I1 light industrial zoning district, and our 2, 2 family residential zoning district at 311 15th Avenue. 1706 Magnolia street, 1611. And 1711 seminary street.
 Item 3, an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the front yard setback from 50 feet to 30 and a half feet to allow a freestanding canopy over the drive-through lanes along North Perryville Road in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 280 North Perryville Road.
 Item 4 in ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a non-emergency medical transportation office and transportation vehicles and an R3 multi-residential zoning district at 3427 North Rockton Avenue.
 item 5 an ordinance approving a modification of special use permit number 045-19 to remove condition for a multi-purpose circulation path easement in an r4 multi-family residential zoning district at 215 easton parkway
 Item 6, an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from County AG Agriculture to City RE Rural Estate and a special use permit for a cemetery in an RE Rural Estate residential zoning district at 4130 Blackhawk Road, 5845 35th Street.
 item 7 an ordinance approving a special use permit for indoor residential self-storage warehouses and a parking lot in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 48 30 and 4870 north main street and 48xx north main road item 8 in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in con in conjunction with a tavern in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 1241 broadway item 9
 an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in an i1 light industrial district at 1909 11th street item 10 in ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in an i1 light industrial district at 1909 11th street item 11
 An ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a casino with slot machines, outdoor seating area, and restaurant in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 610 North Bell School Road. Item 12, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a casino with slot machines, outdoor seating area, and restaurant in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 610 North Bell School Road.
 Item 13, an ordinance approving the amendments to section 3-5A of the City of Rockford Liquor Code for new no gaming license classification. And item 14, an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a freestanding sign for non-residential use in a residential district from 48 square feet to 57.5 square feet along North Alpine Road in an R1 single family residential district.
 I believe 14 was held out. It was. Okay. I put forth those 13 amendments. Okay. We have 13 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 13 items? No discussion. Alderman Toomberg. I'm sorry. I lost the page, too. I lost the page. Take your time. I'm going behind the eight ball. No, just 13 items before us. Well, I promise it's not all 13. You know...
 Yeah Boy is it okay? No, okay? No, it's no no comment, okay? Any other discussion on those 13 items that are before you clerk could you please call the roll Logoman to work frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach
 Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. Item number one, 14 ayes. Item two, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item three, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Item four, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item five and six, 14 ayes. Item seven and eight, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Items nine and 10, 14 ayes. Item number 11, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Items 12 and 13, 14 ayes.
 Thank you. All of those items passed. Alderwoman Meeks, did you have a comment? Yeah, I wanted to know if we can go back to number nine, the appointments laid over. And I wanted to know if I could make a motion for item number 14 to suspend rule 18 and proceed with that vote. Okay, so your motion would be to go back to Roman numeral nine.
 item 14 in Suspend rule 18. Yes, sir. Is there a second? We have a motion we have a second you can't vote or discuss correct?
 Can't vote or discuss alderman. Uh, so we have a motion in a second, uh for suspending rule 14 Uh, is there any discussion before we take that vote alderman frost? Sure. There's there's There's 18 appointments and i'm just wondering what is there any just that one, right? But why why do you want to lay over just or why do you want to suspend relating on just one of them? I I think that that is one that needs uh urgent, uh
 It needs to be taken care of urgently. And so that's why I wanted to recommend suspending on that particular one. The other ones I feel we can do more due diligence. I feel personally like I've done my due diligence on that particular one. And so I'm ready to vote so that we can move forward. That's my view. Do we know when their next board meeting is? Their next board meeting would be 21st. I thought it was second or third week. Yep, 21st. Okay. Otherwise we'd vote on next week, correct?
 uh next week no these are not up before us until the 27th please stop okay okay thank you thank you so uh we have a motion we have a second to uh suspend rule 18 on item number 14. uh is there a further discussion alderman mcneely than alderman bonnie with alderman meeks and i'm glad that she made that motion to do this
 However, I didn't read the resume for the individual that would be replacing Alderman Hoffman. So I will vote for this tonight, recognizing that I have not read that resume, but do hope that this individual will help to correct what's going on over...
 at RHA. So again, Alderman Meeks, thank you for stepping up to the plate. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. First question, thank you Mayor. Would this be, would the appointment then be, if made denied, effective immediately? So typically, and I will actually, I'm going to just lean towards Director Meyer.
 I believe these take effect immediately. If not, it would be within 10 days, but I believe the appointments are immediate with the next meeting. The big issue would be, A, having the new person have time to come in, sign off on documents, and then be able to attend that very next meeting. And otherwise, Alderman Hoffman is serving until the appointment is made? Correct. Yes. Because her resignation is pending the appointment of someone new. Yeah.
 Okay, yeah, I had a similar question on the appointment if it was effective. Is it possible to make an amendment so that. The appointment would take place a day prior to the actual. 1st, or to that, um, to that meeting. I thought it's effective. So.
 We're getting really into this. So I would say a couple of things. One, I wouldn't recommend that. You can make any amendments you guys want. I wouldn't recommend it for that because that new person would have to get that entire board packet, digest all that information, meet with the director, meet with their attorneys, meet their board members. That's a lot to put on a brand new board person on a brand new board in one day.
 so i think what we could do as staff we'll certainly make a call tomorrow uh to miss dixon let her know that she's been uh appointed by the city council uh she is
 She's incredible, number one, but this will be a priority for her. I feel safe to say to get in as soon as possible. She'll come in. We'll work as hard as we can to get that taken care of in the next couple of days, pending her schedule. And then she's pretty adept. She will dive in and get all the information ready. Other follow-up, Alderman Rose? Did you have any follow-up? No. Alderwoman Tarina?
 I just wanted to speak to Ne'Angela Dixon. Her name is misspelled. It's Ne'Angela Dixon. I just wanted to speak to just the caliber of person that she is. She is, we don't have her resume, but she is the Chief Legal Counsel for the, she's the Chief Juvenile Justice Counsel for the state of Illinois. Okay.
 She's very intelligent, she's very wise, she's a critical thinker, and I just think that she would be an excellent addition to the board. So I definitely just wanted to just say that I think that she's the right choice. So I certainly want to just pledge my support for us voting in favor of her.
 Sorry, Jay Bort. Thank you. And her resume, along with the other new appointments, was on desk last week. Alderman Rose, you had a follow-up? Yeah, I'm not opposed to the person per se. I just haven't had a chance to peruse the resumes. And I think a lot of the aldermen also have not had the opportunity to do that. And so I hate to put forward a vote that,
 tonight to Put forward someone who I haven't been able a chance to review And before I go to alderman Bonnie director Meyer, am I accurate to say that rule suspension for rule 18 needs? Two-thirds. Is that right? Two-thirds of Council. Correct. Okay alderman Bonnie I agree with the urgency of the appointment a continue to get phone calls and
 from people who have been terminated from the RHA. I get postcards in the mail urging that something, that the council take some action. And I trust that if the mayor has put the appointment forward, that the person he's putting forward is a quality candidate or the name wouldn't be here.
 And I was prepared to make the same motion when the, that Alderman Meeks just made when the previous nomination was placed placed before the council, but then later withdrawn. So I support support the waving of the rule, but.
 i i guess i'm still not clear on whether it would be effective immediately or whether it would be effective after the next board meeting so we're it would be director this would be effective uh when scotland takes final action today on then that would be effective for the next board meeting so we need her to fill out our information you have plenty of time between now and the next board meeting i can rest assured that she'll have time to come in and sign the documents
 Okay. We still have a motion and a second, and we're discussing about the rule suspension. Alderman Beach. Alderman Beach. Thank you. So I'm not having a problem with this particular person because I'm hearing good things about her, but we know most everybody else on this list.
 so why would we not want to do it tonight we're going to do it for one we we know maurice red we know don bissell we know the judge patrick garborough we know david cisney go around up the list i mean there could be a motion to do that we have one motion in front of us just for one item at this time thank you but yes absolutely you you're able to do that uh other woman wilkins
 Thank you, Your Honor. Are we able to separate these tonight? They are separated. Alderwoman Meeks separated just one out. So we're not voting on the 18. We're voting on one item before you, and that is item 14, the appointment of Neangela Dixon to the Rockford Housing Authority. Gotcha. Thank you for the clarification. Any other discussion on the one item before us?
 And that one item is simply voting so that you can suspend the rules so you can have a vote on this item early. So, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Frunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Abstain. Oh. Rose. I did receive a copy. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney.
 12 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. Okay, that qualifies. So now we have one item before you, and that is item 14 under appointments laid over. Is there any further discussion about item 14 under appointments laid over? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. No. Wilkins. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Aye.
 Bonnie, 12 eyes, 101 abstain. Thank you. We're going to move right along. Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Alderman Toomer just explained to me that when he was at a loss of words, it was still because he was so impressed with Alderman Bonnie's poetic limerick. And that was why he was a little mesmerized. I'm sorry.
 Number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Illinois EPA to establish a long-term household hazardous waste collection facility. Number two is an ordinance approving the purchase agreement for the sale of city-owned property at various addresses known as the Barbara Coleman Campus to Jay Jeffers of Milwaukee for $500,000. The sale of the property is necessary to provide site control that will allow the private developer to invest in completed market studies, engineering, and architectural services.
 Of a comprehensive mastery development of the property number 3 is an ordinance. Approving the 2021 property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of 55623,392 dollars for levies. In the corporate police protection, police pension school, crossing guards, fire protection. Fire pension street and bridge judgments, tuberculosis, sanitarium, public library, public library, maintenance of building.
 Illinois Municipal Retirement, Unemployment Compensation, Workers' Compensation, and Auditing Funds. The final city levy amount will be approximately $47,164,495.
 Number four is an ordinance approving the 2021 property tax levy for street and bridge purposes from the 0.06% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford to 0.10% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford.
 Number five is an ordinance approving the 2021 property tax abatements for 2021. The debt service levy is 12 million 328 thousand two hundred and sixteen dollars and this will be abated in its entirety and number six is an ordinance approving the 2022 budget and appropriation ordinance. I place these six oranges before you okay. We have six items before us Is there any discussion on those six items?
 Otherman Beach. Thank you. So on number two this happens after the 180 days, correct? Director Franson I apologize it happens after the 180 days. So the actual execution of the agreement Yes, the this agreement would be executed which sets forth the doors which starts the clock on the due diligence period Which is 180 days at that point the developer would determine whether to Finalize the purchase or back out. Thank you. I
 Any other discussion on those six items? Alderman Tunberg has his hand raised. Do you have an item? I'd like to bring back, remind Alderman Frost the proclamation tonight, the anti-bullying proclamation, because that does include verbal abuse. But on item two... Yeah.
 I wish I had again time to address this just these some of these questions off council but I did not did I know I had a question on this before and last last week and it was it was about you know maybe the the value or the appraisal value I guess we're gonna find some that out but have we been offered more than
 500,000 in the past for this project by anyone any developer in the past mr. Kagan I mean I guess I'm trying to find out is it a fair amount considering maybe offers that have been made in the past so I believe the question was have we been offered a higher amount than the 500,000 or a lower amount I mean is that
 I think he's concerned in let me know alderman concerned with the appraisal. Where will that be? Right? Well, yeah, and as of right now is 500 000 a fair fair amount um before alderman or before mr. Cagnoni answers, uh Director meyer So we did receive it, uh an appraisal on this property recently and it appraised I believe it at five hundred thousand dollars five hundred ten thousand
 $510,000, which is required when we sell property in the method we're doing it now. It does require an MAI appraisal, and the City Council can only approve something that's within 80% of that, and so that fits in this instance. Okay. And as far as Jeffers, then, who is it?
 I guess we, when I look back, and this is, and the reason I'm asking this is because Barbara Coleman campus is a big deal, and this is finally maybe coming into fruition in some way, shape, or form. We've had interest in this in the past. Would I be correct in saying that? If you want to bring back PTSD, yes, you are correct to say that.
 But, okay, and so us as a council, we didn't vote on this Jeffers company, or I guess we didn't really have them present. So is that? They did not. They will come before us again. If they move forward with this, they'll be coming back before us for the negotiated development agreement that Director Franzen will be working on.
 Okay, because yeah, I would like to know more about the company. I think it would be, it would be, it would behoove the rest of us to know more about the company as well. Because again, the magnitude and size of this project, I think could not necessarily go through more scrutiny in a bad sense, but
 I think we could learn a little bit more about the company itself and not having them present up to this point. I'm just a little bit out there on it, and I don't like to be. Absolutely, and I should recognize for all the council, a representative of Jay Jeffers was actually here last Monday at committee.
 I just failed to get the message around so that that could be announced. They are very open for communication and actually encourage that and Alderman Torina has had communication directly with them in a meeting with them. But absolutely, it is a huge deal. This is potentially transformational for the Southwest Quadrant of our community and a huge deal for the city that's owned that for decades as blighted property.
 Yes, dive into this one, get to know them. We hope, too, that it's a long-term relationship, but early stages. And so, yes, thank you, Mayor, and thank you for all involved. But, yeah, I just hope that they see the importance because I think when things start getting underway, if they do, there's going to be a lot of individual parties and organizations, individuals, what have you,
 coming forward on this and for them to give us some kind of heads up on how they're going to deal with the community especially the immediate community would be helpful thanks Thank You alderwoman Torino thank you Your Honor just to piggyback on what you were saying and also to just address alderman to Berg's comments
 i definitely have had the opportunity to speak with the developer i actually spoke with them since last week and again they've just re-iterated their commitment to making sure that the community is involved in this project i was pretty adamant that i wanted to be at the table and i wanted to make sure that the community had an advocate and a voice in making sure that we didn't just come in and just you outsiders come in and just build here
 And not get a say from the community as to what it should look like or how they can be involved in the project and again, they've just recommitted themselves to making sure that Again that they get the community involved. They want to do public engagement sessions. They just asked me last week to start gathering lists of stakeholders So they want to start holding meetings And getting ideas from the community as well. So so far they've been
 You know, sticking to what they said that they were going to do. So I'm just remaining optimistic that we continue on this trend of positivity and collaboration and we get this thing done. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Other comments clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Hi. Logan. Hi. Tumor. Hi. Frost. Hi. Karina. Prenti. Wilkins. Kaufman.
 Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely, Bonnie Item number one in two thirteen eyes one no items three four five six fourteen eyes. Okay. Thank you Go to officers reports said just a couple of things Alderman Durkee you'll be excited to hear that tomorrow. There will be a press conference about the Riverview ice house so
 So everyone be aware of that. But I know a number of comments were being stated as we were discussing the IWBC and the museum, the mixed emotions and that it should be something celebrated but a lot of tensions going on. I would just say,
 One thank you guys for all the work that you did tonight You look at all of the items that went through council tonight There was a lot of really good stuff that went through council tonight And I gonna guess since the TV is packing up. I'm calling you out that not all of it will be covered But the bar at 4 a.m. At the casino is gonna be covered but
 But I would just say a couple of really wonderful things. And one, you look at that casino item, it's one of the last few items that are becoming through our council. I just want to say to department heads all around, the amount of work that went into that and is continuing to go into that casino development is really amazing.
 And just for the council to know, we will be opening that temporary casino well over a year before any of the other five casinos open, many of which haven't even been approved.
 And so that's a testament to this body and to the staff at the city. I would say you look at the budget. I think we just passed a budget in the fastest time period that we ever have done it. And since Kerry's been here and the amount of work your team has put into that budget and all the department heads, but your team, Kerry, put the final touches on that to bring it to where it's at. So thank you for that. You look at the property taxes.
 This now is the fifth year that we haven't increased property taxes in a row with this group. And that's 17.14 million dollars that is now staying in the hands of property owners in our community because of the work that this group did, the department heads and the staff.
 uh then you look at that museum on the southeast side of the city of rockford if someone said when you got elected that we may have a 10 million dollar investment uh right there i bet many of you would say i don't see that happening in the first seven months of me being elected i would also say barbara coleman
 I've had I think we've all had our own heartaches over Barbara Coleman, but it's very early on But to know that there's others Interested and to know that our team and led by Carl is out there beat in the bushes and working on these things Is really wonderful. So I just want to say thank you for all the work that you did tonight. Is there other reports alderman rose just real quick a
 The second annual Mel Anderson Slow Roll bike ride will be coming up on October 17th. That is hosted by Northwest Neighbors Incorporated, a group that has really identified Mel Anderson Bike Path as a...
 a staple and a keystone to Rockford's West Side. There will be some bike giveaways. There are free helmets being donated by Swedish American. We have food, we have activities for the family, Rockford Police, Rockford Fire helping with it. It's in collaboration with iBike Rockford, which is a biking organization and numerous community sponsors that have taken up the opportunity to fund this event.
 And we're just hopeful that families will come out on that Sunday from 3 to 6 p.m., enjoy some food, go out for a bike ride on Mel Anderson, and enjoy the food.
 and really see some of the key things that we have on Rockford's West End. I like to point that out because it's not an event in the downtown area for Alderman Thunberg and I'm also hopeful that as time goes on that it becomes the longest bike path in Rockford where it will meet up with the downtown bike path across the river.
 That's something I think we can brag about on the West End of having that at some point. We're not there yet, but I know with the work of the city that it's going to happen. Other reports? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to echo your comments about the impact of the Greater Rockford Italian American Association on our city. And as somebody who's two of my four grandparents immigrated here from Italy in the early 1900s,
 And then I also wanted to, for a small fee, let Alderman Thunberg know I could prepare remarks for him with a little notice next week. Other reports. Alderman Thunberg. Yeah, well, I may take you up on that since you work for the state. Small fee. I have plenty of time. So, you know, Alderman Bonney and I have good, jestful jabs, and we respect each other on that, so.
 Anyways, so I just want to say that I had the privilege and extreme fun to go to the Gee-Gees Playhouse event yesterday down at City Market. Brought the family and they had plenty of food trucks.
 It was a great event. The first time I've had loaded tater tots. So family stayed away from me for a while after that. But it was a great event and I want to say thank you to all who, I know I'm getting some looks on that one, but transparency.
 Thank you for all those who got that request through. Gigi's Playhouse, it was a request that needed to be put through. And kind of post haste. But boy, what an organization that really helps kids, the Lord's kids. And so it's a great organization and just wanted to give kudos to them. Thank you. Thank you. Other reports?
 uh alderwoman prunty thank you so much um i just wanted to take a moment to um first of all um thank um the folks um from the city who came out to the 11th street corridor meeting um very informative so mayor i really do thank you uh chief kyle thank you how you doing thank you for coming uh uh
 uh division fire division chief tim o'keefe um recruiter um beau cheney um thank you for joining us and sharing such timely information also would like to thank neighborhood specialist barb chiley public works director kyle saunders cip operations manager ken matson senior engineer tech jordan
 Matesmore, I hope I'm saying that correctly. Comeds, eternal...
 EXTERNAL AFFAIRS MANAGER, GEORGE GULRAP, GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS PROGRAM DIRECTOR, THEORA RICHARDSON, AND PROJECT FIRST RATE DIRECTOR, PAUL NOLI, FOR SHARING GREAT INFORMATION THAT WE WERE ABLE TO SHARE WITH THAT GROUP. I ALSO WANTED TO THANK CHERYL, CHARLES, AND OFFICER MATT WILLIAMS FOR KEEPING THAT GROUP TOGETHER AND KEEPING EVERYONE UPDATED.
 So thank you very much. I wanted to announce that we are having a neighborhood cleanup on 11th Street neighborhood cleanup on October 9th. And that will be from noon until excuse me, from 10 a.m. until noon. So I think I left some information on your tables.
 Next, I'm sorry I wasn't able to do this last time. I did want to congratulate the African American Resource Center, Ed Booker and their senior boomers on their ceremonial path where they were able to add some seating and signage. So hopefully you all will get a chance to go ahead or get over there and take a look at that.
 I wanted to also thank you also for the proclamation that you gave earlier on Domestic Violence Month and just wanted to add as it relates to Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Incorporated, the Rockford Alumni Chapter, and Zeta Phi Beta Sorority Incorporated, the Epsilon Chi Zeta Chapter are holding a
 film discussion, a panel discussion and a screening of the documentary, She Wins at the Nordlof Center on October 23rd from 1 to 5 p.m. And this is about a woman who has survived domestic violence. And it's free to the public.
 And, oh, last thing, I'm sorry. I went to the IML, the Illinois Municipal League conference or convention, and I had a good time. I know it was kind of funny, but I was just wondering, are we all planning to do some sort of little debrief? Because I learned so much and I just felt like it's just mine. I just have the information and I want to share it. We certainly could.
 Maybe during a strategic planning session of our council, we could have some time to share some information that was scheduled, or maybe in the caucuses you can. Otherwise, it would be somewhat difficult for us to organize that, but absolutely. It's a good thought. All right, and thank you very much. Other reports?
 one thing i failed to mention i shouldn't have is uh alderwoman hoffman i just want to say thank you uh for your years of service to uh the housing authority board uh i think any of those extra boards are really a thankless job and more work than most people realize when you sign up uh
 in all my conversations with hud they spoke glowingly of your dedication to that board so i just want to say thank you for the service that you provided is there is there a motion to adjourn we have a motion we have a second anyone want to discuss all those in favor say aye those opposed have a wonderful night