I invite you to join me in the spirit of prayer and meditation and centering. Great spirit of love and life, wondrous God of many names and no name at all. We gather here to do the work of the city and we gather in the midst again of deep tragedy. Violence and murder and our hearts are heavy with the news. We wonder what are we to say or do and offer our
 Love and mercy to those who grieve the loss of their loved ones who are injured and to those responders who put their lives on the line and work hard, long hours to serve those in need. What are we to do? To gather here to do the work of the city. We are to do the work. To live with mercy and compassion for those who might be left behind or forgotten. To be people of love. We cannot stop.
 all the violence in the world, and cannot control the fates, but we can be people of decency, of open hearts and open minds. Grant us today courage and wisdom, that those servants of the people here gathered may be wise in their deliberations and loving in their hearts. Shalom, salam, amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 Clerk will you please follow up with him in timber frost? Irvine's Thompson Kelly Hoffman rose Beach Quinones Shirely 11 present. Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening. Could I get a Motion to approve the journal proceedings for City Council meeting held on September 18 2017. Is there a second? all those in favor say aye
 Those opposed? Okay. Item passes. I also need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on September 25, 2017. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right. Item passes. We have two proclamations this evening. Your Honor. Yes. Could we have a moment of silence for the victims in Las Vegas? We certainly can. Thank you.
 We'll take a moment of silence for the victims of Las Vegas as well as the shootings here locally. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Thompson-Kell. This evening we have two proclamations. The first proclamation is Fire Prevention Week, and I believe we have Chief Knott and several others coming up to receive this proclamation.
 Whereas, the City of Rockford, Illinois is committed to ensuring the safety and security of all those living in and visiting Rockford. And whereas, U.S. Fire Departments responded to 365,500 home fires in 2015, according to the National Fire Protection Association. And whereas, U.S. home fires resulted in 2,560 civilian deaths in 2015, representing 78% of all U.S. fire deaths.
 And whereas a home fire escape plan provides a skill set and know-how to quickly and safely escape a home fire situation. And whereas a home fire escape plan includes two exits from every room in the home, a path to the outside from each exit.
 smoke alarms in all required locations in a place outside where everyone in the home will meet up upon exiting. And whereas Rockford first responders are dedicated to reducing the occurrence of home fires and home fire injuries through prevention and protection education. And whereas the 2017 Fire Prevention Week theme is every second count, plan two ways out.
 effectively serves to educate the public about the vital importance of replacing smoke alarms every 10 years. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 8th through the 14th, 2017 to be Fire Prevention Week. Would you like to share a few words? Sure. Thank you.
 Thank you for letting us speak this evening, and we appreciate the proclamation also. As you said, next week is Fire Prevention Week. We have a lot of activities planned. We also have an open house scheduled for Saturday, so we'll make sure we get the information out. But this is the great data to make sure your smoke detectors are working and make sure you practice a home escape plan with your family. So like I said, I appreciate everything. All of our firefighters work hard to prevent fires every day, and we really appreciate this. So thank you.
 Thank you. Our second proclamation this evening is for Domestic Violence Awareness Month. And if Judge Rosemary Collins and others would like to come forward. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you, ma'am. I want to borrow that when you're done.
 Well, first, it's an honor for me to have you here, so, and thank you for all the work that you do, each and every one of you on behalf of our community on such an important issue. So thank you so much. Whereas domestic violence crosses all socioeconomic lines, including but not limited to race, ethnicity, gender, age, education, employment, and marital status. And whereas in the state of Illinois, a domestic violence-related crime is reported 342 times per day.
 And the Rockford Police Department responded to 4,537 calls for service for the domestic violence-related offenses in 2016 alone.
 And whereas last year over 1,200 children and adult victims of domestic violence sought emergency shelter, legal advocacy, and hotline services from local domestic violence programs, Remedies Renewing Lives. Likewise, over 2,800 emergency orders of protection were requested in Winnebago County.
 And whereas the City of Rockford recognizes that domestic violence has a devastating impact on our community and that improving the response to this problem requires a coordinated community response.
 And whereas, also throughout the month of October, the 17th Judicial Circuit Court Family Violence Coordinating Council and other local collaborative prevention groups will be hosting several events to bring awareness of domestic violence and thus give hope to all victims of abuse struggling with this issue. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rufford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2017 to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
 Would you like to share a few words? I would. Thank you very much, Mayor. I appreciate that. And thank all of you for continuing to highlight this issue, which really impacts not only victim and children in our community, but also each and every one of us.
 Domestic violence, of course, occurs between partners, but we have learned that this is a real safety issue for our community also. We must do our part in our community to address it and prevent it from reoccurring. The damage that's done to individuals and families is really long-lasting. You know, 15.5 million children in our country live in families where partner violence occurred at least once last year.
 We know that violence takes place at home, but it shows up often in our schools. Its repercussions affect classroom behavior and impacts children's ability to learn. If we want to give children the best chance for success, then we need to do something about domestic violence, and we need to raise awareness about the impact of domestic violence in our community.
 Domestic violence consumes health care and criminal justice system, and it heavily influences our need for greater social services. It also impacts the business workforce with costs to each of the systems. And, of course, we know that there are tragic outcomes when it comes to domestic violence.
 The most tragic, of course, is death. A report that just came out today said there were 61 deaths in the past fiscal year in Illinois directly related to domestic violence. Any one is too many. But I personally am proud of the great work that our law enforcement officials have done in our community to preventing domestic violence, and we're lucky to have the great work that they've done.
 And I would be remiss if I didn't point out the connection that's being made between mass shooters and domestic violence. A recent FBI study that used the FBI data showed that 57% of mass shooters included a family member or spouse in their victims. 16% of mass shooters had a previous domestic violence incident.
 So as we look at the connection between domestic violence and violence in our community with effects, each and every one of us, we know that we must step up to do more.
 I'm lucky to be here today not only with a great city council and a mayor, but also with members of our community who have done a lot. We have representatives from Remedies, Children's Safe Harbor, the courts, and our police departments who have spent a lot of their time and effort making a difference in the community. And without their hard work, our numbers would be even more worse. So thank you, Mayor, and thank members of the city council for your continuing efforts to help make our community safer for everyone in it.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And under petitions and communications, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There are two items under Letter A, Numbers 1 and 2. First is a memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager, regarding the adoption of ordinances approving the Amarok Hotel Tax Increment Financing District.
 Redevelopment plan and project area. Designation of the Amarok Hotel TIF redevelopment project area. Adoption of a tax increment allocation financing
 for the Amarok Hotel and ordinance to adopt the amended Westside number two TIF. This is referred to planning and development. Secondly, we have a memorandum from Wester Wurre, Chief of Staff, regarding the adoption of the possibility statements developed during the City Council's strategic planning sessions held in July and August. These also will be referred to planning and development. Thank you, Alderman Durkee and Alderman Chiarelli.
 The first item is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the designation of a Deputy Clerk ex officio, Keeper of the Records and CO for the City of Rockford. The second is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding Plat Number 7 of Riverside Marketplace Subdivision. The third is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the Plat Number 2 of Shaw Meadow Subdivision.
 The fourth is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed sale of a portion of 55XX11 Street to IDOT. The fifth is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed sale of city-owned vacant lot at 5085 Browns Beach Road.
 the 6th of the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on October 11, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on October 23, 2017.
 The seventh is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed sale of city-owned lot at Main Street and Auburn Street. And the eighth is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the adoption of an ordinance regulating massage parlors. All eight of those items will be referred to Code Direct, Your Honor. Thank you. And Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. First is a memorandum from Mark Stockman.
 regarding an intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Board of Education regarding the Kishwaukee Elementary School water distribution system improvements. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Mayor Thomas McNamara regarding a report on, quote, confronting the problems of domestic violence and human trafficking, end quote, prepared by Jennifer Caciapaglia. That will also be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Number three is a memorandum from Nicholas O. Meyer, Legal Director, regarding a police canine sale agreement that will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And lastly is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, also known as WIOA, and this will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Frost.
 Five public speakers this evening. Just to remind our public speakers, each public speaker receives three minutes. Our first public speaker of the evening is Kelly Mesa. Yes. Hi, I'm Kelly Mesa. I'm with Care for Pets and its County Animal Rescue Endowment for providing enrichment through support. We're 501C3. We're on Facebook. Like us. Our webpage, wecareforpets.org.
 So I need to just give you a little bit of history in these three minutes I have, and that is to let you know, tell you back by where we are today. So pets, animals, our society has demanded a lot out of, I'll just turn it over. I'm not a good public speaker. Thank you. Pets, animals, our society has changed a lot, and pets are part of our family.
 And they're welcome in hospitals, hotels. They're part of our police force. They're a part of our life. But in addition to that, our society has also demanded how our Winnebago County Animal Shelter handles our animals. Society has evolved and changed with animals in that.
 we, you know, don't want to euthanize animals, right? Every animal that comes in there, we want it to find a home. So several years ago, a bunch of us got together to talk about the alarming euthanasia rates that are at our shelter. Clearly, if you've ever been down to Winnebago County Animal Service, you'll see that they don't have the size, quality, or structure to mainly house all the animals for the miles that Winnebago County Animal Services covers.
 So our first thought, oh, we're going to launch a capital campaign. We're going to build this really big, state-of-the-art new building. We're going to do this with grants and private funding. So we went down to do our history and our research. Came to a stop, a screeching stop, actually.
 we came to realize that if we build a bigger facility, we're just gonna fill it, right? Bigger jail, we're just gonna fill it. So we stepped back and spent a lot of time and a lot of research to see how communities were reducing their animal intakes by 49%. You know, that's really great and heartwarming, but really the bottom line is that's our tax dollars.
 So, what we, through all of our research, we came across a program called Pets for Life, sponsored by the Humane Society. So, that brings us up to today. Our administration's changed with the county.
 and we met with Frank Haney and his staff. He's embraced us, empowered us, and we've been working with Winnebago County Animal Services. We had our first pet health fair September 9th at Black Hawk Courts. We served many animals. People stood in line for hours to receive pet healthcare education, spay-neuter vouchers. We've collaborated with other animal rescue groups. What does this mean? Why am I here? That day, I don't have three minutes to tell you about the public safety. The tax dollars that we saved,
 with this program and the money we generated, we got people to register their pets that people have never registered before. Care for Pets is in our community. We're here for the long term. I suggest each of you, we gave you a brochure. We have our cards. Contact us. We'd be happy to talk to you about how we're saving tax dollars and helping people in your districts that you're representing. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Proverbs, the ninth chapter, the eighth verse, it says, Do not rebuke a marker or he will hate you. Rebuke a wise man and he will love you. What I want to speak about tonight, why all the mass shootings in America? A mass shooting is becoming more common without a doubt, although their problems depend on how mass shootings are defined. A recent Harvard University study that combined FBI data with other statistics
 concluded that since 2011 the frequency of mass attacks has tripled. USA Today counted 346 mass shootings over a 17 year period with 1,697 victims, about 20 a year. In the first 239 days of 26, there were 249 mass shootings. It's a bigger problem today than it was 10 years ago and it will be a bigger problem in the future. Why all the mass shootings? There are many factors.
 But the most obvious one is the United States' unique gun culture. The United States easily has the most guns per capita of any country in the world, with an estimated 310,940,125 guns in circulation, roughly one for every American, and weak gun laws in many states. It's not hard for a delusion of vengeful people to obtain a semi-automatic handgun or a rifle
 What drives the shooters? Revenge over real and imagined slights, the desire for attention and fame, the delusion of mental illness all can play a role. Almost all mass shooters are male and about 64% are white, 16% black and 9% Asian according to a Mother Jones study. Only 23% have been treated for mental ill. After studying dozens of mass shooters
 I concluded that the American dream itself may contribute to the frequencies of these. Americans are told that with hard work anyone could be wealthy and successful in life. When success fails to materialize and men find themselves at the bottom of society, they feel cheated, liars to emasculate, and hopeless and in despair. They're in real pain and they're eager to blame that pain on the people. Why do they turn to violence, killing former colleagues, mates, schoolmates, or groups of strangers in a final suicidal spell?
 serves not only an act of revenge but as a way of forcing the world to be aware of the killer's inner torment. These very public attacks also give the killer the fame that eluded him in his fair life. They fantasize about going out on the blaze of war. In the United States, fame is revered as an inner torment, even when the notarizer is naked. Can anything be done? Yes, and I got the solution. My proposal to reduce the availability of guns and high capacity weapons and identify and treat mentally ill people
 are prone to violence and who need help by opening up all the mental hospitals in the United States. This would help reduce the mass shootings because people would be getting help for their mental illness. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. Our next public speaker is Reverend Derek Shelby. Acts chapter 10, verse 8, verse 38. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good,
 and healing all that were oppressed of the devil, for God was with him. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good. Listen, I think what we had in Rockford was a de facto containment policy against black people, economically, socially, and politically, for 50 years. Now listen to this. The U.S. Central Bureau data from 2014
 Rockford had the highest unemployment rate for black adults, listen, of any city in the nation. A staggering 28.9%. There's more black kids unemployed in Rockford than any other place in America. For the last four years, it averaged 26.7%. They're targeting our children. Listen here. They just hired 17 people.
 At the fire department, they just had a thing up here today about the fire department. I like Chief Burstyn, the old Mr. Knott. Not one black male, not one. 17 people, $50,000 a year jobs, 28 points, a staggering, the highest in the nation, 28.9%.
 Not one black man. Not one. Not one. The police chief just hired seven new police officers. I asked him right here, you know what he told me? I said, was they all white? He told me he didn't know he didn't have anything to do with the police signs. I said, what? Do I look stupid? All white males. They got our kids and our people contained.
 economically, socially, and politically. It's racism. It's racism. Jesus went about doing good, and these white men, and some of them in Rockford, are going about doing evil against black people for no reason. 98% of all the crime committed against white people are about white people. Containment policy. 28.9%, y'all. The highest in America. You believe that?
 Bias in the whole country. Rockford is one of the filthiest, wickedest, racist cities anywhere. Thank the Lord Jesus for his blood. Thank you, Reverend Shelby. Next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Bramley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our aldermen, alderwomen, and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Proverbs 29, verses 25 say, Fear of peoples can hamper everything you try to do. In a strange form, it can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear of peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear God, who can turn their harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word.
 Donald Trump is just the latest Republican to stroke racism to vision.
 He is now, he is not reshaping the party but rather carrying on a long tradition. American, two-thirds of Americans think Trump have done more to divide this country than to unify it according to the new polls on Sunday. I want to jump from talking about Donald Trump, I wanted to go talk about Black Lives Matter and the pro football players, but instead I want to talk about today.
 58 people, right now 59 people was killed, more than 500 injured in the deadliest mass shooting in modern American history by a Caucasian 64-year-old gunman. He had at least 10 weapons was found in his Las Vegas room. Who woke up the sleeping cell?
 If we look, I went on the internet and looked at gun violence archive. The first nine months of 2017, we had 11,574 gun deaths, 23...
 370 gun injuries, 271 mass shootings, 1,508 intentional shootings, 2,971 children and teenagers shot. There have been 46,510 total incidents of American gun violence so far in 2020 and 2017, and an average of 169.7 per day.
 Officers involved in incident officers shot 229 officers, two officers killed. Officers involved in incidents subject or suspect shot or killed 1,546. So what are we doing here in Rockford today? I can tell you what we have been doing on the west side of the river. There is a deep
 hatred and mistrust for our youth and our young people when it comes to the Rockford Police Department. Plus, the suspect in the Winnebago Sheriff's Department shooting is still alive. They have no fear of the police looking not once but twice showing a shadow outside of the front of the new Winnebago County Courthouse. I'm working behind the scenes to try to build a bridge between the community and the system
 Nevertheless, I cannot do this alone. Thus, most of all, as long as the peoples here in Rockwood do not want to face the truth, that Rockwood is just as divided with racism, hatred, and set-outs who are still going to be the third nation's most miserable city in the nation. We have all these different types of groups and organizations out here in Rockwood, but what are we doing to work together and come up with a solution to the problem?
 Or are we going to wait until we have another Mark Anthony Balmore or police in Rockville get killed before we really decide to address the problem? You cannot train for a rocket without the people that are volunteering their time and energy. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Our next public speaker is Mr. Brian Linden.
 Tonight I would like to talk to you about a company that you will probably be voting for a renewed contract in 2020. The name of the company is Rock River Disposal. The contract is for six years, and this, I feel, is way too long for such a contract. My last time I spoke here, I spoke about the...
 poor service of this company. Since then, I have learned more about the Rock River Disposals poor service from other people I've spoken to. One is an elderly lady who lives two blocks from my house, and after I told her about my poor experience, she told me that she saw a garbage man pick up her trash can and throw it into the garbage truck.
 I was not too surprised to hear this because earlier this year I also was missing a trash can on trash day. When I asked if she did anything about it, the stolen can, she just said that she just let it go. And then another woman I talked to, in fact she works in this building,
 I told her about the rock pervert disposal. And she added that she had a problem with them, and they said the can that she put out weighed too much. And she told them that she was able to lift it up, and so they decided to come back and pick it up. My complaints...
 since speaking here last, are numerous. From dumping cans and leaving them in my alley one time, almost in the center of the alley, that's almost like putting your cans out in the middle of the street, to twice not picking up my yard waste. The first missed yard waste was because the trashman did not see a X on my can.
 And I talked to a Rock River disposal manager, and he revealed to me that the X is so the trash man knows what's inside the can without having to lift the lid up. So I told the manager that I don't put lids on my cans. So the manager told me that he would have my yard waste picked up.
 The last time this company missed was last Thursday. I asked Rock River Disposal and talked to Courtney, the receptionist, and after she spoke with the manager, she told me that all the yard waste had been collected in my area and that I would have to wait until next week. Well, since I had the trash can out on time and
 Just have two sentences here. All right. A couple of, I felt that I was being scammed because I paid for it. I had the trash can down. And then I had to call a couple of people, and they seemed to have been able to correct the situation because they came out and emptied my can the next week. Anyways, this type of behavior by rocker or disabled must stop. Thank you.
 Under new committee reports, we have Alderman Farrell. First, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for a planned unit development for the sale of passenger vehicles that includes a sales office and detail shop at 3909 and 3911 Sandy Hollow Road.
 The second, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 2000 Harrison Avenue. The third, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of a modification of an existing liquor license to include outdoor seating at 1701 South Main Street.
 The fourth, the committee recommends approval of the proposed language to revise the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 105, and the 2015 International Property Maintenance Code, Section 302.4, Weeds, to modify the allowable length of growth from 10 to 8 inches and clarify enforcement exemptions.
 The fifth, the committee recommends approving the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 3-58 regarding the catering liquor license and new liquor license classification for hotels with video gaming. The sixth, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station at 1602 North Alpine Road.
 The seventh, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 425 South Winnebago Street. I place these up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. Is there any discussion on the seven items before us this evening? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Bill up on Rule 5. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you. So all those items pass. We'll move to Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Governor. There's one item. The committee recommends the approval of the vouchers in the amount of $5,631,454.35 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on September 25, 2017. I place that up for passage.
 Thank you. Is there any discussion on the vouchers? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 12-I, Your Honor.
 So the vouchers pass. Next up is office report. One item I just wanted to call your attention to is there's a domestic violence and human trafficking report on your desk that was done by Jen Caccia-Apaglia,
 This will be presented at next week's meeting, but if you have any questions in the meantime, please feel free to reach out to me, and if you would like, we can even connect you to Jennifer, who I know would be open to answer any questions or concerns that you have prior to next week's meeting. Any other officers' reports? Alderman Milkenman.
 I know some other aldermen and I had spoken about reaching out to some school board members about this issue that keeps coming up in Rockford, and we see it at every city council meeting I met with, two school board members that represent the second ward. And I wish we had the answers. I wish I had all the answers. We don't.
 I don't but I think together through these conversations that we have not only with each other but with other representatives in the city we can work towards progress.
 As we all know, there's a lot of pain in Rockford, and we have power for good. I also just want to thank, you know, on behalf of the third ward and the tenth ward, everybody in the North Highland Square area about the quick and swift action taken against a massage parlor that didn't meet all the qualifications to do business in the city of Rockford. I know everybody in our neighborhoods appreciated the swift action of city staff. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Alderman. Thank you, Mayor. I would like to thank personally my colleague, Jonathan Lugman, and Frank Beach, in the work and our city legal attorney, Nick Meyer, and everyone involved, building, division,
 and zoning and such with this matter. And just to reiterate Alderman Logman's words that we are working on it, and Mayor, I know you are in that as well, and we are working very diligently on that. And I appreciate everyone's help in this matter, and we all are coming together on this. Thank you.
 Alderman Hoffman. Thank you. I realize that next Tuesday is our next council meeting, but the Rolling Green Association will be having their quarterly meeting. And I apologize, but our date was set up nine years ago, so I have to stick with it. We are never allowed to change it.
 for our residents, but we will be having the new Chief of District 3 there, Chief Posey. We will be having the sheriff there, attorney, State's Attorney Briscato, and Lindsey Vaz from Rosecrans to speak on issues concerning juveniles. And we are going to be registering people to vote
 if they need their address changed or their name changed or anything else so that they can vote in the spring, we will have someone from the League of Women Voters there. So thank you. Wonderful. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, did you have your hand raised? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. I have to give a thank you to Chief O'Shea and also Assistant Deputy Chief Carla Redd for opening up the People's House, which is District 1, for neighborhood meetings.
 I think I went to three last week at District 1 station, and there's many more scheduled to be scheduled at District 1. The residents are very pleased and very appreciative of our community service officers and District 1 for allowing them and giving them the opportunity to know what the People's House do and the services that it provides in the community. So thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Rose. I just wanted to make a few comments on one of the items we discussed last week, which is the welcoming ordinance. I think we see that there's still some deep divide in our community when we talk about issues on race.
 One of my hopes is that with this welcoming ordinance that is going to come up next week, that we take a serious look at how this could significantly impact our community economically, socially,
 in a lot of different ways. Just doing a little research, there are over 90 cities throughout the country that have similar ordinances. Lots of them are doing,
 great things economically. It's attracting business. It's making changes to their airport. It's putting them on a map as a place to come and do business. It's one of the things that I'd like to
 go into more in detail next week, but it's something that I really think our city needs to look at. We've been doing the same thing for the last, you know, 30, 40, 50 years here in Rockford. And if we don't start to see some major social change, to me, I think this is a tipping point for us as a city to really engage our citizens. So I just wanted to make that note.
 Thank you. Is there other officers, other men of communes? I want to thank the chief of police for attending the committee meeting on 7th Street, developing a high-rise. The people were very delighted and had a lot of questions for the chief, and he answered them the way they wanted him to answer them. So I want to thank him very much for showing up. Thank you. Any other officers report? Okay.
 Excellent. Moving on to motions and resolutions as appointments are laid over until October 18th. Under motions and resolutions, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Resolution tonight is the resolution appointing the members to the advisory committee for doing business in Rockford. Place that resolution up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye.
 Logamon Aye Toomberg Aye Frost Aye Irvins Aye Thompson-Kelley Aye Hoffman Aye Rose Aye Beach Aye Quinones Aye McNeely No Chiarelli Aye 11 ayes, 1 no Thank you Thank you, Your Honor Next up is Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost Thank you, Your Honor There are 14 items, I'll try to be brief
 number one is an award of bid for snow removal from municipal sidewalks to snow solutions of wheeling illinois for an estimated value of sixty eight thousand eight hundred and seventy six dollars the contract duration is one year with two one-year extensions the funding source is the street division operating budget number two is a water bid for snow removal from municipal parking lots to accent mid midwest asphalt of rockford for estimated value of thirty eight thousand three hundred and fifty eight thousand
 with the same contract terms and the parking source for this one. The funding source is the parking fund. Number three is an award of bid for Public Works materials to Northern Illinois Service of Rockville, Illinois, William Charles Construction of Loves Park, Illinois, and Rockford Companies of Janesville, Wisconsin for estimated annual amount of $270,000. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the Street and Water Division operating budgets. Number four, award of bid, Public Works waterworks supplies and materials
 to many different vendors with a total contract amount of $1,074,972.39. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is Water Department Operating Budget. Number five, an award of bid for Water System Contractual Services to N-TRAC Group of Loves Park, Illinois for an estimated annual contract value of $150,000. The contract duration is December
 31st 2017 with an option to extend for an additional 3 years in one year increments the funding sources the water department operating budget
 Number six, award a bid for Church Street and Park Avenue water main to N track group of Lusk Park in the amount of $740,942.70. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account. Number seven, an award a bid for the 2017 fast track demolition package number three to Northern Illinois services of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $47,095.
 to GIMAX Corporation of Peoria, Illinois in the amount of $11,131.95.
 and to JD Mark, Rockville, Illinois in the amount of $29,095. The contract duration is 45 days and the funding source is the Community Development Block Grant and Sanitation Funds, number 8. In award of bid for the 2017 BRP RCI Demolition Package, number 5, to Northern Illinois Services of Rockville, Illinois in the amount of $9,545 and JD Mark of Rockville, Illinois in the amount of $22,600,
 The contract duration is 45 days and the funding source is the Blight Reduction Program funds. Number nine, an award of sole source contract to Financial System Modules to Tyler Technologies of Fallmouth, Maine for a cost of $126,888 for a software license, $23,800 implementation
 and $28,548 for annual maintenance starting in year two. The funding source of all these is the IT fund slash water fund. Number 10, an award of a non-competitive bid
 for workers' comp third-party administrative services to PMA companies of Schaumburg, Illinois for an estimated annual fee of $75,380. The funding source is the Workers' Compensation Fund. The contract duration is three years with two single-year renewals. Number 11, an award of non-competitive bid
 for 30 Taser devices and holsters to Axon Enterprise of Scottsdale, Arizona for a cost of $42,074.39. The funding source is the Police Department Operating Budget Number 12, an award of RFP for sale of property located at 6200 Baxter Road to Winnebago Landfill LLC for the proposed purchase amount of $1,147,500.
 Number 13 is rejection of proposals received for 12 IBM Analyst Notebooks. The staff recommends rejecting all bids and reissuing the proposal.
 Number 14, an award of non-competitive bid for the gunshot detection to spot shot or flex for a cost of $310,000. The contract duration is one year renewable subscription plus an annual subscription fee of $260,000. The funding source is the police department operating budget. I place all as upper passage. Anyone need any of those repeated? Anyone in the audience want him to repeat some of those?
 Thank you Alderman Frost. Is there a discussion on any of the 14 items before us? Alderman McNeely. Item number 9. I'm not sure if I fully understand what we're purchasing here. I know it's some type of program, but I would appreciate Mr. Mayor if someone would explain the citizen self-service.
 Certainly, Alderman McMillian. Ms. Eklund, could you give us some further detail? Absolutely. So the citizen self-service module is a module that will primarily be used by our water customers. It will also be available and useful for those businesses that pay regular metro tax payments.
 Currently, we're paying our utility bill printer to provide online access to bills processing online payments for water bills. We're paying them an annual amount in order to provide that service. What this module will allow us to do is to take that in-house, pay a one-time fee to set it up.
 The motivation for the change was that our bill printing contract is expiring next year, and we didn't want all of our customers to have to change systems every time we get a new bill printing company. So we started looking at options. So this will provide some additional functionality to the customers as well. They'll be able to see historical bill information. They'll have more options for online payments.
 They'll be able to see utilization numbers over time. So it's just generally a better service, and it conveniently will also save us money. Thank you. And, Mr. Mayor, item number one, the snow removal. Thank you.
 small sidewalks and snow solutions, a wheeling. What exactly are we hiring them to remove snow where? Certainly, and if Mr. Stockman would provide some further detail on item number one, the wheeling contract. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman McNeely, this contract is dedicated strictly to snow removal on sidewalks that are adjacent to city-owned municipal parking lots, city-owned buildings.
 and a number of the pedestrian sidewalks on bridges throughout the community. Thank you. Any further questions? Yeah, no problem. Any other discussion before we call the items to vote? Okay, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely.
 Charelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 ayes. Item number 11. 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 12, 13, and 14, 12 ayes.
 Thank you. So all of those items pass. Alderman Torelli under new business for codes and regulations committee. Thank you your honor. I have an ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for the sale of passenger vehicles that include a sales office and detail shop at 3909 and 3911 Sandy Hollow Road. My second is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 2000 Harrison Avenue.
 The third is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to include outdoor seating at 1701 South Main Street. The fourth is an ordinance revising the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 105, and the 2015 International Property Maintenance Code, Section 302.4, weeds to modify the allowable length of growth from 10 to eight inches.
 and to clarify enforcement exemptions. The fifth is an ordinance approving amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 3-58 regarding catering liquor licenses and new liquor license classification for hotels with video gaming.
 The six is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station at 1602 North Alpine Road. And the last ordinance is approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 425 South Winnebago Street. Place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have seven items before us. Any discussion on any of those seven items? Alderman Kim, you want to? Yeah. Number five, sir.
 i had a question on it does that have to the catering and the liquor license for hotels that's uh that has to be together that can't be severed could you repeat that just so i could hear uh number five in the ordinance approving amendments to the city of rockford liquor code uh catering the liquor license and the liquor license for hotels it has to be together
 So the question is, just so I make sure I'm clear. We vote on that. That's for both. Yeah, so number five will be the, that's a combined. Yes, sir. Do you want it to be separated? I'd have to maybe ask our legal director if we can separate, and just so I'm clear, inside one item, item number five.
 ordinance approving amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 3-58 regarding the catering liquor license. You want that as one vote and you want a new liquor license classification for hotels and video gaming to be a second. I'll ask Legal Director if that is a possibility. Yes, that's a possibility. There are two separate items under two separate sections of the code, so if they want to separate those items, we can certainly do that. So to make...
 or council clerk have a little bit more work because we call them 5A. Why don't we separate them and we'll deal with that right after we make the vote on the other six items and we'll make it 5A and 5B. Is that okay? Okay. So we're separating them? We're going to separate number five right now and then we'll take it up as two separate votes after we work through one through four and six and seven. Any other discussion on one through four and six and seven?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Quinones. Sorry. McNeely. Shirelli. All items pass. 12 ayes. Okay. Those items pass. We are going to separate item number five.
 5A will now be an ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 3-58 regarding the catering liquor license. Item 5B will be a new liquor license classification for hotels and video gaming. Does that suffice you, Alderman Quinones? Okay. So item 5A is about catering. 5B is hotels and video gaming. Clerk, could I please have you call the roll on that?
 Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry. Alderman Beach, you had a question. Thank you, Your Honor. Right now, if a hotel wants to have gaming machines, we understand they apply for liquor license. The state says if they have a liquor license, the poor, they have to have machines. What are we improving over what now exists for anyone to have the right to put gaming machines in their property? I'd like to know what's new there.
 My understanding is what is new is that we included the word hotel rooms because when we created the ordinance back about two and a half, three years ago, we created the ordinance that said that 50% of your sales had to come...
 had to come from merchandise, food, etc. And for some hotels, we never included rooms as part of that and they don't serve food. But I'll just make sure I have that confirmed from Legal Director Meyer. That is correct. Does that answer the question? Thank you, sir. No problem. Any other further discussion on either of those? Alderman Quinones. So some of these motels, they don't have kitchens. The other...
 I think the ordinance states that so much money got to come from food or yeah, so I probably wasn't really clear. It's 50 more than 50% of your revenue needs to come from food, merchandise product. And so we're calling the room a product that they're selling so that they could then not be in disagreement with our ordinance. Is that clear? Does that help?
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So previously, the ordinance addressed retail-type businesses as opposed to specifically hotels. So what this does, if I understand it correctly, is to correct that so that hotels are properly included in it. Yes, ma'am. Other discussion on either 5A or 5B? Any confusion on what 5A and 5B is?
 Wonderful. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Aye. Loganman? Aye. Toonberg? Frost? Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? No. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? McNeely? Chiarelli? Alderman Irvins, yeah. I'd like to change my 5A to a no. Okay. Please reflect record that Alderman Irvins is a no on 5A.
 5A is eight ayes, four noes. 5B is nine ayes, three noes. Both items pass. Could I get a motion to adjourn? So moved. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right. We have one more committee meeting up, coming up with Labor Negotiations Committee.