Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, October 7th, 2024. This evening we have Ann Rundle of the Baha'i Center of Rockford for our invocation. Everybody take a deep breath. We need to calm our hearts. This is a prayer for assistance. O my God, O Thou who endowest every just power and equitable dominion, with abiding glory and everlasting might, with permanence and stability, with constancy and honor. Aid thou by the heavenly grace every government that acteth justly towards its subjects, and every sovereign authority derived from thee that shieldeth the poor and the weak under the banner of its protection. Allahu Akbar. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logamine. Here. tuber Trina printing Wilkins Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 12 present Excellent we have a quorum this evening Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 3rd 2024? We have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed Okay next is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 16th 2024 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye Those all those in favor say aye Okay, now we're getting there Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on September 23rd? 2024 we have a motion. We have a second or any discussion. I Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. All right, this evening we have three proclamations. I believe one of those recipients of the proclamations is not here yet this evening. So we'll see if we can wait a minute for them. And we will begin with fire prevention. Fire Prevention Week and we have a whole host of folks coming up. We have Division Chief Louie Durand as well as others coming forward. You brought everyone with you. Whereas, the City of Rockford, Illinois is committed to ensuring the safety and security of all of those living in and visiting Rockford. And whereas, fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally. And residential buildings are the locations where people are at the greatest risk from fire. And whereas, a majority of the United States fire deaths, 4 out of 5, occur at home each year. And whereas when the smoke alarm sounds, Rockford residents may have less than two minutes to escape to safety. And whereas Rockford's residents who have planned and practiced a home fire escape plan are more prepared and more likely to survive a fire. And whereas Rockford residents should make sure everyone in the home knows how to call 911 from a cell phone or a landline from a neighbor's phone. And whereas the 2024 Fire Prevention Week theme, smoke alarm, smoke alarms make them work for you, effectively serves to remind us that we need to be vigilant and take personal steps to increase our safety from fire. Therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 6th through the 12th of 2024 to be Fire Prevention Week. Chief, would you like to say a few words? Please. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening everyone. I'm very proud and humbled to be here. I'm Louie Duran, Division Chief of Fire Prevention. What I have here next to me is a great elite team, very dedicated, committed to fire prevention, planning, These individuals every day, they do the most important thing, non-emergency related function of the fire service, and that's being out there, educating the public, being committed. So I thank each and every one of them for doing what they do every day. And once again, I am humbled and proud to be part of this team that does it every day. Thank you. Thank you. Our next proclamation is National Bullying Prevention Month, and we have Lori Davey with us, the hockey star. Thank you. They just started it too. Did they? Yeah. Fantastic. Good to see you. I'm going to give that to you. Whereas bullying is physical, verbal, sexual, or emotional harm or intimidation intentionally directed at a person or a group of people. Whereas bullying occurs everywhere in our neighborhoods, playgrounds, schools, and through technology, such as the internet and cell phones known as cyberbullying. And whereas researchers have concluded that bullying is the most common form of violence affecting millions of American children and adolescents annually. And whereas targets of bullying are more likely to acquire physical, emotional, and learning problems. And whereas students who are repeatedly bullied often fear going to school, riding the school bus, and attending community activities, and are at a greater risk of engaging in serious violent behavior. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2024 to be National Bullying Prevention Month. Again, Lori, we are really fortunate that you're with us in all the work that you do. Would you like to share a few words? So my name's Lori, and I actually work for Easterseals. And the reason why bullying is so important to us is individuals who are autistic are bullied at a higher rate than their same age peers. so This year we're focusing on kindness and we have a kindness calendar that we're asking people to do something kind for somebody else every day and share it with us so we can really focus on kindness, which is the solution to bullying. And then on Wednesday we're having a X out bingo at Don Carter Lanes. We're gonna have a resource corner with some of our local mental health providers A lot about self-care because that's so important when you care for yourself, you know You have strategies if things are happening and And then we'll have lots of information in our resource room, in our library. And I just want to thank the city council for always letting me come here and talk about this important issue. Bullying affects everybody, but from my perspective, I see kids being bullied, especially with autism, who may not be able to ask for help or tell somebody. So it's just very important. My daughter Emily, who's behind you, has autism, and she was bullied through school, and it affected us personally, but she's overcome. She's asked for help, and now she's a mentor to other autistic people who need guidance and help. So, and a star hockey player, yup. So thank you again for letting us come. Thank you, Mayor McNamara, for always supporting us. We greatly appreciate you. Okay. Next and last proclamation for this evening, we have George Galra from ComEd and it's LED Light Day. Whereas National LED Light Day is celebrated on October 7th each year and whereas LED lights have moved forward technology, scientific achievements, increased energy efficiency and have numerous environmental benefits. And whereas the celebration of the day's origins can be traced back to 2014 when the Esamu Akasaki and Hiroshi Amano and Shuji Nakamura won the Nobel Peace Prize, and I practice that all day, in physics for their work on blue light-emitting diodes. And whereas LEDs are used in many applications, including lighting homes and businesses, cars, electronics, and outdoor lighting, they're known for their efficiency, brightness, and versatility in color and design. And whereas LED lights are more energy efficient than traditional lighting, which can help reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions. They can also last for up to 50,000 hours. And whereas ComEd has replaced thousands of light fixtures with LED fixtures, which saves the city of Rockford taxpayers energy and thousands of dollars each year. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, do hereby proclaim October 7th to be LED Light Day. George, would you like to share a few words? Just a few words the council members would love to hear, especially finance. Starting four years ago, the city of Rockford saves over $100,000 per year. That goes back into your budget with the LED lights and also a lot of carbon emissions in this place. Thank you. Thank you, Council Members. Next up, we will move in our agenda to the public hearing portion, and I'll turn it over to Alderwoman Gabrielle Tarina, who will chair this hearing. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5 7 1 1 7 1 through 8 and 5 11 15 1 through 3 for the agreement to annex for the following property 4427 Auburn Street. The pin number is 1116185014. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford register star on September 12th 2024 that notice informed citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday October 7th at 5 30 p.m. In City Council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street Rockford, Illinois for the consideration of a proposed annexation agreement for 44 27 Auburn Street Are there any comments or questions from the council members regarding this station? Seeing that there's no questions from council, are there any comments from the public regarding this annexation? Seeing that there are no comments from council or the public, this hearing is now closed. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman. Next, we're going to go to petitions and communications, and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item, Item 1, Memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, Interim Public Works Director, regarding the approval of the grant application, reimbursement, authorization, and acceptance of the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Grant for Rockford Products. Refer to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you again, Your Honor. I have four items. Item number one is the Traffic Commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on October 9th, 2024, and meetings from that meeting for consideration at Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 28th, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on October 16th, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 28th, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number three, the liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on October 16, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 28, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And lastly, a memorandum from Scott Capabilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding Platte No. 6 of Sandy Hollow Industrial Park Subdivision, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Number one is a bid opening for the city-owned property, which is a vacant lot located at 721 South 3rd Street. Steve Sockwell, put it now, is offered a bid as $1,001. This is referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Next is a bid opening for the city-owned property, which is also a vacant lot located at 821 Oakley Avenue from Charles Richardson. And the amount, the bid for this lot is $1,200. And I will give both of these checks and documents. And moving on, all of the remainder items will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number three is a memorandum from Robert Willamy, Brownfields Redevelopment Specialist, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with the IEPA for household hazardous waste collection Number four is a memorandum from Robert Willimine regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Four Rivers Sanitation Authority for a household hazardous waste collection facility. Number five is a memorandum from Robert Willimine regarding an approval and acceptance of an application and award for the U.S. EPA Brownfields Community-Wide Assessment Grant. Number six is a memory from Owen Carter Regarding the approval acceptance of applications in five grant awards from the continuum of care project here 24 The grant includes planning grant rose grants and Saudi grant rose grants 2002-2003 grant youth rapid rehousing and expansion and city of Rockford coordinated entry and Number seven is a memorandum from Police Lieutenant Dwayne Johnson regarding the approval and acceptance of the application award of the Bureau of Justice Award for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Award. Number eight is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, land transaction officer, regarding the proposed partial release of liens on certain privately owned parcels to facilitate the completion of the Rockford Complete Streets Revitalization Project. Number nine is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson regarding the proposed release of liens on certain winnebago county trustee parcels to facilitate the sale to private owners number 10 is a memorandum from police chief carla red regarding retention bonuses for sworn officers of the police department from the 2024 illinois law enforcement training and standards board recruitment and retention grant program number 11 is a memorandum from owen carter regarding the approval of a lease agreement with omni rockford and number 12 is a memorandum from todd cagnoni regarding the proposed utilization of 3% cannabis recreation tax of 250,000 to assist poverty reduction in childhood education Through the Health and Human Services Department in conjunction with review and recommendations by an ad hoc working group Thank You alderman frost next up We have our public speakers want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers you'll have three minutes to address the City Council and If my phone's working properly, you'll hear an alarm go off to close your comments. If not, I'll make you aware that it's been the three minutes. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 133rd chapter, the first verse, it says, Behold how good and how pleasant it is for a brother to dwell together in unity. What I want to speak about tonight... Hispanians who got the Congressional Medal of Honor in Vietnam. There were 22, and I'm going to name them tonight. Number one, David Fernandez, Army. U.P. Rubio, Army. Abel Amido Rodriguez, Army. Maximo Yibis, Army. Carlos J. Lozado, Army. Alfred Gonzalez, Marine Corps. J.R. Vargas, Marine Corps. Roe Benavides, Army. Hector Santego, Army. Joe Jimenez, Marine Corps. Rafi Dias, Marine Corps. Emilio DeGaussio, Marine Corps. Miguel Keith Marine Corps Louis Rocco army Elford racing army Hubert versi army candlestick Garcia army Leonard L a bottle army who's a Duran army Santiago J avia army Felix Falcon army Jose Rodela on I'm tired of hearing that line that his fingers didn't do nothing that is a lie I want to congratulate my own Alderman friend, Logerman, who was promoted to major in the United States Army. And I want to thank all veterans for protecting the United States. Welcome back home, brothers and sisters, because I'm a veteran. I did 19 years, 11 months, 29 days, 1 hour, 10 minutes, 15 seconds, United States Navy. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Our next public speaker this evening is Cypress Wolfe. Hello. I want to start with an appreciation of what we all share. We all have homes, we all have loved ones, and family. I want to thank Spirit for creating this space and recognize that where we stand is in the place of giants. They're the tribes of the Potawatomi, the Ochote, the Chacoan, the Miamians, Ho-Chunk, Kickapoo, Fox, Sauk, and Peoria tribes. All lived here before we forced them out. Over the past few weeks, I've built the understanding of how the Palestinians are being forced out of their land. Through this, I've pleaded for your hearts, your throats, eyes, and mind to open to the new possibilities. When it comes to what we can do as a city, please don't doubt ourselves. Currently, the city of Rockford has $2,242,888 invested into the war machine. And this doesn't even include things like the $190,000 salary that goes to our police chief. This only includes things that would be like Caterpillar, which is a known genocide collaborator which receives funds from us. With this money, we can make true progress to reverse the destruction of Rockford that comes from corporate greed and malpractice. You see, we could create 266 homes for families who have been forced out through displacement and gentrification. We could fix 6,380 houses with solar, off-putting our carbon emissions. We could get 60 students out of their crippling loan debt. We could provide free health care for 780 people to prevent needless death that comes after somebody leaves the hospital. And we could hire 30 new teachers and give them a living wage of $72,000 a year. However, instead, this money is invested in a system of death that stands to kill everyone. Not just black and brown bodies that we can only see through our phones, but the people here too. Our elected representatives have chosen profit over people and business over a better Rockford. We need investments from our community, not from capitalists like Justin Fern. We need our community to band together and unite under the common ground of life. We must preserve our future and the little ones we haven't yet met. To start this process, we demand a complete boycott of Israel. From security to construction to banks, shut it down. Secondly, the City Council, we demand that you recognize Israel as an apartheid state. As a part of National Bullying Month, when are we going to stop the bullying of Palestine? As a part of LED lights, when are we going to get lights back to Palestine? When are they going to be no longer living with 96% contaminated with some kind of virus pushed out of their homes? When you look at these children, remember Palestine. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. First of all, I want to quote Proverbs 17. Proverbs highlights seven benefits of keeping quiet. One is the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those... who are wise, make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you have something important to say. I am a walking encyclopedia when it comes to our history. One day while watching the History Channel, I realized they were going out of their way to eliminate certain parts of our African presence in America before the European explorers. I have, I have, I knew right then and there that I had to do something instead of waiting for someone else to tell our history. Today is Putin's birthday. On this day, I'm going to quote from our President Biden. On this day last year, the sun rose on what was supposed to be a Jewish holiday. By sunset, October the 7th had become the deadliest day for Jewish people since the Holocaust. to day mark one year of mourning for more than 1,200 innocent people of all ages, including 46 Americans massacred in the southern border of southern Israel by the terrorist group Hanlon. The Hamans committed horrible acts of sexual violence. One year since more than 250 innocent were taken hostage, including 12 Americans. One year for the survivors carrying wounded, seen and unseen, who will never be the same. One year of devastating war on this solemn anniversary. Let us bear witness to the unspeakable brutality of our totalist seven, the attack, but also in the beauty of the lies that were stored in that day on Vladimir Putin's birthday. That was a great deception from the war that was going on in Ukraine. I want to go on by talking about the first limit. Let me drop down. Critical race theory and science racism is openly practiced in Florida, Texas, Kentucky. However, here in Rockford, it's practiced in a down low southern town. If it was not until February 7, 2013, the 13th Amendment wouldn't have proven Mississippi. Just like on the cover of the magazine, my face is stating that I have an unstoppable voice for justice. I'm a walking in cycle period that comes to our history. I have no fear of our foreign ministers or their dominions. I want to talk about Donald Trump. When has lying become the new norm? I'd be back. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Joan Sage. Good evening, Mayor and Council folks. I'm so happy to be here before you. It's been a while, so thank you for allowing me to speak. I just have on your desks an update of what is going on with Comcast. We now have 1,500 miles of our network to serve all of the people in Rockford. We have the capacity to have you recruit as many data centers as you would want. We have the capacity to take care of whatever their needs are. And on the first page, it talks about we have 100 gigs for businesses. We do symmetrical. Okay. which is important to folks as well. And you'll see on the other pages the other things that we do in terms of commitment to community. Comcast has been here since 2008. Prior to that, it was Insight. Prior to that, it was Cablevision. COMCAST IS HERE TO STAY, WE'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE. IF YOU HAVEN'T BEEN TO OUR STORE, THE EXFINITY STORE, OVER ON EAST STATE, MILFORD THERE, YOU MUST. IT'S A GREAT PLACE. SOMEONE CAME IN AND SAID, YOU'RE STILL HERE? YOU'RE NOT LEAVING TOWN? I THOUGHT YOU WERE LEAVING. IT'S LIKE, WE'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE. WE ARE STAYING HERE. WE'RE GOING TO SERVE THIS COMMUNITY. AND YOU'LL SEE ON THE PAGE THERE'S MANY, MANY DIFFERENT ORGANIZATIONS THAT WE SUPPORT FINANCIALLY AS WELL AS WITH OUR VOLUNTEER. who are volunteers, who are employees for us. We have over 100 employees that live and work here. They pay taxes, they invest in our community, they volunteer, they donate, they do all of that. And we have at least two every night that are on call every single night that work overnight. And so you'll see our... VANS AND TRUCKS RUNNING AROUND, WE'RE HERE TO TAKE CARE OF WHATEVER IT IS THAT YOU NEED. I KNOW SOME OF YOU HAVE TAPPED ME FOR THAT AND I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY CALLS YOU HAVE AND HELP ANY RESIDENTS THAT MIGHT HAVE ISSUES. WE'RE REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THE FAITH IN BLUE EVENT THAT WE'RE THE PREMIER SPONSOR FOR THIS SATURDAY. Last Saturday we did with the League of Women Voters, they had an educational session to help folks, especially who live in areas that have low voter turnout. We're trying to help people get educated to... exactly how important voting is, as well as how you can go about doing that. So our Alder folks, Alderwoman Prenti and Alderwoman Meeks were both at our event on Saturday, thank you for coming. So one of the things that I know you've all heard about, but I want to reinforce a little bit, is our Internet Essentials program. You have this. When we started it almost 14 years ago, we had a price of $9.95 for 6 over 1. Prices stayed the same. Again, we're not going anywhere. We're keeping the price. Only the speed now is 50 over 10. For $29.95, it's 100 over 20. Now, what's... One more thing to look at. You're now fired. Thank you. Is Zach Rotello here? Next, we're going to move to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have 14 items. Item number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no-parking-anytime restriction on the south side of Sawyer Road, 375 feet west of 20th Street, 370 feet west of 20th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the north side of 18th Avenue from 8th Street to 200 feet west of 8th Street, thus repealing the existing two-hour parking restriction on the north side of 18th Avenue from 8th Street to 200 feet west of 8th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a handicapped parking restriction on the south side of Elm Street from 95 feet west of Church Street to 115 feet west of Church Street Thus repealing the existing 30-minute parking restriction on the south side of Elm Street from 95 feet west of Church Street to 115 feet west of Church Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action on the following items a request to establish always stop control at the intersection of 6th avenue and 8th street thus repealing the existing traffic control of 8th street stopping for 6th avenue a request to establish always stop control the intersection of alder avenue and raven street thus repealing the existing traffic control of raven street stopping for alder avenue the A request to establish one-way stop control at the intersection of Columbia Parkway and Wendy Lane. And a request for additional street lighting on 813 Corbin Street. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a drive-through pickup window in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 6075 East Riverside Boulevard. Subject to amended conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of the modification of Special Use Permit 050-90 for the overnight storage of customer vehicles, the elimination of required landscaping, outdoor storage of a shipping container, and to allow the business to operate in a C1 limited office zoning district and R2 two-family residential zoning district at 1275 North Main Street, subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 7, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a text amendment for Article 80-009D, Miscellaneous Nonconforming Uses. Nothing in this provision allows illegally established nonconforming parking lots and driveways to remain. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number eight, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink class NGWV in conjunction with the restaurant in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 6150 East State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number nine the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the modification of an existing liquor license for a 20% stock Transfer in the c2 limited commercial zoning district at 43 43 East State Street Subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 10 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the modification of an existing liquor license for a 20% stock transfer in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 39 51 and 3957 West Riverside Boulevard subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number 11 the committee recommends approval of plat number three of Peary Paltz a subdivision number 12 the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4427 Auburn Auburn Street and The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 13 the committee recommends approval of the annexation agreement for 44 27 Auburn Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Lastly 14 the committee recommends approval of the proposed extension and modification of the downtown social district the legal director shall prepare the appropriate Ordinance, thank you. Thank you all the woman Trina council. There's 14 items before you is there any discussion on those 14 items? I Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to number six, I'm just making sure I read it right. This new business, or the business that's currently there, they are going to get rid of or eliminate the storage unit. Which staff would like to address that? I can. Your Honor, so you are correct, Alderman Frost. This is an existing business that originally got a special use permit approved in 1990. There are a number of conditions of approval related to removal of the nonconforming freestanding sign, the land approval or submittal of the landscaping plan. The existing chain link fence to be upgraded. No overnight storage of customer vehicles are allowed but should be limited to eight. No outside storage of auto parts, equipment, materials and vehicles but the storage container would be allowed. Thank you. Other discussion? Alderman Beach and then Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Number 14, a little explanation on the modification and extension please. Mr. Cagnoni again. Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Beach, the downtown social district, when it was originally approved, was set to expire October 31st of this year. So fundamentally, the request is to renew Social district there's also an extension of the boundaries that roughly takes it from Jefferson Street on the north Chestnut Street on the south that does color both sides of the river and then to have a standard hours of operation from 11 a.m To 11 p.m. Will this debt to be excuse me? Okay, this need to be approved again each year on October I There's not a sunset clause in proposed revisions, but certainly it could be repealed by City Council at any point in the future Thank you. Thank you, sir Thanks mayor on In relation to number six. I just like to add that this was a sale of an existing business This is a car repair shop on main Never have I've had any complaints from any constituents. In fact, many of my constituents would support this business and That storage container is not able to be seen from the street. It is directly behind the business and also the the required landscaping was due to the expansion of they did have landscaping but then the expansion of North Main Street By the state and all eliminated that landscaping that would have been there. So this number six does I have my full support Thank you other discussion alderman Bonnie. Thank you. I wasn't hearing this one through codes and regs I'm what is the historic property that? Alderman frost is referring to or did I not hear him right correctly? I didn't hear him mention historic Okay Other discussion on any of the 14 items that's before you? No. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman, Tumber, Brost, Tarina, Frunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonney. Aye. Items 1 through 6 13 eyes item 7 12 eyes 1 no items 8 9 10 11 12 13 13 eyes item 14 12 eyes 1 no, thank you next We'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost figure. There's one item is a I The committee recommends approval of a voucher in the amount of $16,761,411.35 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on September 23, 2024. Thank you. There's one item before us. Is there any discussion on that item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey on 13 eyes excellent now. We're at officers reports any other men or women have comments a rose One second. I'm pulling up the calendar so a few items first one is on the 16th, we'll be having the Nesna neighborhood meeting which will start at 6 o'clock and that will be held at third Presbyterian Church It's open to really anyone in the neighborhood, but also we're extending it to anyone in Ward 9 So anyone who wants to come to that meeting? The mayor will be there chief chief red will be there and other Individuals from the city will be answering questions around things happening on the work. So if you can make it again, that's Wednesday October 16th at 6 p.m. At Third Presbyterian Church the other announcement is Another One, there is a film screening at the Nordlof Center on October 24th at 6 p.m. That film screening is a movie called Where Olive Trees Weep, and it tells the story of Palestine and what's been going on over there. So interesting just look at what's happening over in Palestine. And again, that's October 24th at 6 p.m. at the Nordlof. Thank you. Alderman Prunty, and then... I'm sorry, could you just say that date and time again? Sorry, I was writing. Alderman Rose, could you please repeat the date? October 24th, I thought I heard. Yep, October 24th at 6 p.m. Okay, thank you. I'm sorry. That's at the Nordwath. Yes. Thank you. Alderman Prunty. JUST WANTED TO ON OCTOBER 3 WE HAD THE SIXTH WARD MEETING AND JUST WANTED TO THANK EVERYBODY WHO CAME OUT AND SUPPORTED AND SPECIFICALLY WANTED TO THANK THE, WELL, I THANK THE R1 JASON FOR COMING AS WELL AS MR. FROM THE EPA. I ALSO WANTED TO THANK THE FAITH LEADERS BECAUSE THIS REALLY WAS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THEM TO SHARE THE OUTREACH THAT THEY WERE DOING IN THE SIXTH WARD. SPECIFICALLY I'D LIKE TO THANK Pastor Sanji, Pastor Norma, and Pastor Brock, as well as Life Church. Without them, we would not have been able to do this. So Life Church South Campus. But thank you to all the faith leaders who came. Thank you. THANK YOU TO ALL THE PERSONS WHO CAME, ALTERMAN BARRIOS AS WELL AS ALTER WOMAN MEAKS AND THE STAFF WHO CAME OUT AND SUPPORTED. WE HAD FOLKS FROM THE FIRE DEPARTMENT, POLICE DEPARTMENT, WE ALSO HAD DR. MARTELL FROM WINNEBAGO COUNTY. WE HAD OTHER REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE COUNTY. Just some peace of mind as well as gave us an opportunity to learn more about the Livable communities initiative, so I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you alderman Bonnie. Thank you mayor. I Was saddened as I'm sure everyone in this room who knew her was to learn recently of the passing of Kathleen Klein and who served on our historic preservation commission and was a long time rock long time and highly respected rockford real estate agent i've only known her five years i met her five years ago during a unsuccessful fight to save a landmark worthy property here in rockford from demolition uh sometime after that i recommended her for a vacant seat on the library board and She was uninterested because she was, as she said, I'm not somebody who likes to just put their name on a list and pretend like I contribute. I really want to contribute and I don't feel I have enough time for this particular commitment. But the mayor then successfully talked her into accepting a later occurring appointment on the preservation commission. She sold my mom's condo at a time when she needed to go into long-term care and Delivered a above-list price and quick quick sale. In fact, it sold the next day and closed within a couple of weeks Last December when I was recovering from knee surgery, she made a completely unannounced visit at my front door with a bountiful care package. She was just one of those people who, now that she's gone, you wish you had had time to know better. But if you knew her at all, you knew that she was known for a colorful collection of eyewear and it reflected her ever cheerful personality. Kathy was to borrow I guess from Maya Angelou she She wasn't one of those persons who it was about people who was about the things she did necessarily or the things she said but how she made you feel and I I read something that someone posted on social media that I thought I would like to share. And if you hear the skylight cracking above the mayor, it's because I'm about to get religious. So this person posted, some religions believe we die twice. Our first death is when our physical bodies leave us and we die for the final time, the last time that our name is spoken. Kathy's level ripple and radiate for generations to come I'd like to ask for a moment of silent for Kathleen Klein Thank You alderman Bonnie. I didn't want to cut you out. Do you have other reports? All right. Thank you I I know Kathleen and I mean she was infectious for sure. She was amazing. She was one of Rockford's biggest cheerleaders Thank You mayor first of all, I'd like to thank you for finding the beginning to funding for our Our human services department. It's something that's very dear to my heart It's not everything I want but it's the beginning and I am appreciative that we're going to have a committee to discuss the rest of the procedure The next thing is I'd like to invite everybody to our rolling green meeting tomorrow night, and it's a special meeting It's being put on by our community officer Nathaniel best he He is going to teach us how to stay safe on our computers. And while many of us think I've got this, I have two friends that have been wiped out this year. All you have to do is hit the wrong button and things happen. There's so many crazy ways to take advantage of people, especially if people are in a hurry or stressed out or they've been in an accident. One person was wiped out because they thought they were renting a car after an accident and it was a phony post. The other one is going to be, I believe it's Officer Turner, teaching us how to landscape for safety. And I learned that the hard way after being robbed in my home. So they're going to put this on for free, but if you were to go to CLR, it would cost you $40. So it's an evening that the police are providing for us for nothing. The other thing is that Jamie Salgado from the County Board he's a vice chair of finance and he's going to talk to us about the mental health Taxes coming up and how important it is and I did not realize this but there is a surplus right now Because they don't have enough clinicians. So one of the things they did is they looked after a THE BROCKFORD PROMISE AND THEY'RE THINKING ABOUT PUTTING TOGETHER A PROGRAM WITH SOME OF THIS MONEY TO DEVELOP CLINICIANS SO THAT WE CAN SPEND THE MONEY TO GET PEOPLE HEALTHIER. SO I THOUGHT THAT WAS A VERY CLEVER IDEA THAT IF YOU DON'T HAVE ENOUGH, THEN GO MAKE YOUR OWN. AND IT KIND OF COMES FROM, AND HE SAID THAT, BROCKFORD PROMISE. IT WAS A GREAT IDEA. Those of you that are interested and realize how much trauma affects our community and mental health and I have to say Being on next door. I've just had a couple residents that were obviously off their meds So and we've had that one we had to send out the CCRT tooth. So this is a really big issue I hope you come I hope you learn more about the tax and can encourage people in our community to support it. Thank you. I Alderman Bailey Thank you. Yeah, this is a been a journey for me personally sitting in this privileged council chambers But I've had some experiences Where I know how to build a building. I know the processes Involved but I'm learning how to build a community and I'm committed to that. I had some experiences last week It really had an impact on me. I appreciate my colleague across Logerman and who allowed me to speak to Key Club students at Auburn High School, the school that I graduated from. I was surprised that there were six students that I connected with. I was surprised when I got the email from from Logerman. I want to thank him publicly for his support and assistance. Last week, I had some powerful experiences. The Boys and Girls Club Literacy Initiative at Kilburn Avenue. I spoke to about 15 to 20 K through fifth grade. It was a diverse group, but majority students who look like me. While reading to the kids, I looked into their eyes, and particularly the young African American, young men. I saw myself through their eyes when I was their age. I looked down the road at when they're 5, 10, 15 years, that three, that five-year-old is going to evolve. I'm committed to saving our children, making investments in our children because we need it. We need it, folks. Because what I saw was real. A five-year-old, when he's 10, 15, he could be the five-year-old that's holding a gun up against you. That's what I saw. Real stuff. And the other experience I had was the PACE event. I learned a lot about social issues. I'm a business guy. I'm learning so much from the resources that we have here in the city that it just hurts my heart. But once again, at the PACE event, Even had a chance to talk to the home visit nurse Great conversation and I point out a young kid that was playing with with a toy doing something once again I could see through his eyes Myself when I was his age. We have a crisis in our community We really do folks and we need to take off the blinders We need to make the investments the administration has done a great job of making the investment and I'm happy to say Rock Valley has broken ground on their new facility. And whenever I see that, I'm like, wow, hope. It gives me hope. But we have to do better with making the investment. We know where the investment needs to be made from A to Z. And I appreciate what the staff does, but we need to have input. We do have input. The CIP plan. We know that we need infrastructure improvements. But all we're looking for and asking for is input. Because we live in our community. And like I said, I'm very hopeful for the West Side. I'm all about the unfinished business of the 13th Ward. And I'm trying my darndest to build a community. I mean, because I'm waking up at night like, wow, this is on my mind. So I want to thank the administration for doing what they're doing in the 13th Ward, which gives me a lot of hope, Your Honor. A lot of hope. But we have to do better in making investments where they need to be made. Thank you. Thank you alderman timber. Thank you mayor well said by yourself and Alderman Bonnie regarding Kathleen Klein again. She she was just a stand-up Person and very witty and it was a pleasure to know her and she will be missed to say the least tomorrow From 7.30 to 9 is the YMCA Retired Men's Club Pancake Breakfast. So it is at the Log Lodge, and they put on a fantastic breakfast, all you can eat. So I do pay for two, even though I'm... You pay for seven? I do. Now the cat's out of the bag. But yes, I do pay for two because I eat for two. But I might eat for seven. So anybody who's interested, it is 730 to 9. The YMCA Retired Men's Club does a great job for the community Obviously for the YMCA, but really they are an extension to the community and I would encourage anybody with an appetite 730 to 9 tomorrow and hopefully see you there. Thank you Thank you all the wrong Meeks First I want to Thank you mayor for speaking and giving I believe a proclamation at the Making Strides Against Breast Cancer Walk this Saturday. It was a great event, as usual. I know there were other women, Wilkins. I know you were there. I didn't see you, but I know you were there. And there was just so much support in the room, so thank you very much for coming. I want to... Invite everyone to join me and the 12th Ward for the 12th Ward meeting on Thursday, October 24th 530 to 730 it will be held at Grace funeral home and cremation services at 4301 North Main Street and this is an opportunity for the 12th Ward to shape the future of our community together So I hope that everyone can join for that event And now I just want to speak to something that we're going to be discussing soon, the casino revenue, casino tax revenue, and the budget surplus. Both of these items, considering I don't sit on the Finance and Personnel Committee, I don't feel like I had ample enough time when it went through committee and then came to council. to kind of have what I feel is the input that I would have liked to have for this particular, for these two items. So this is a lot I'm going to say, but this is my chance to say it. In recent years, we've made so many strides together. As a council, we've passed the largest capital improvement plan in our city's history. We've transformed our streets, infrastructure, and public and private spaces. We've been fortunate to access federal American Rescue Plan Act funds and revenue from cannabis taxes, allowing us to make major investment in our community. And these funds have provided a solid foundation for growth and opportunity. And now as we find ourselves entering another budget surplus bolstered by new casino revenues, I believe it's time to turn our attention towards one thing that matters most. Investing in people and businesses, our community's greatest assets. The surplus we have at our disposal is not just an opportunity, it's a responsibility. A responsibility to ensure that every dollar we allocate is not just spent, but invested in ways that produce tangible returns. Returns measured not only in dollars, but in stronger families, safer neighborhoods, and thriving businesses. As we consider how to allocate these new funds, I have proposed that we direct a portion of this surplus toward strategic investments that will benefit our community long after this budget cycle ends. The amendment that was created took much thought and multitudes of collaboration. Collectively, we came to certain things as supporting our fire department by providing the resources needed to add another engine and ambulance. This investment is not a luxury, but a necessity as the number of calls for service continues to rise. Ensuring that our first responders have the tools and personnel to effectively serve our growing community needs is crucial for the safety and well-being of every resident. And in addition, we have proposed that we allocate funds to strengthen business associations because these associations play a critical role in supporting local enterprises and fostering economic development. By providing these groups with the resources they need, we can enhance their capacity to create new associations and assist existing businesses. This investment will open doors for more funding opportunities, provide technical support, and cultivate a collaborative business environment. We cannot talk about investment without recognizing the vital role of our nonprofit organizations. Nonprofits are the lifeblood of our community, offering services and support where government resources often cannot reach. By providing them with unrestricted, unencumbered, thank you Alderman Maturina for a wonderful word, dollars, we empower them to innovate and address needs as they arise. This type of support will yield a measurable return on investment as decreasing poverty and increasing opportunity directly correlates to reduction in crime and improvements in overall quality of life. When we reduce poverty, we reduce desperation and the circumstances that breed criminal behavior. When we invest in people, they in turn invest right here in this community. The cycle of giving and growing begins, and that's the type of impact we want to see from every dollar that we spend. And I get it, we can't be everything for everybody. But we've achieved so much, and as we continue to move forward, I hope we have that mindset that balances public infrastructure investment along with community investment. Because while roads, bridges, and facilities are important, and they are very important, The true heart of any city is its people. I urge all of you to consider this balanced approach as we look to the future and as we see additional funds entering our city, ensuring that our investments reflect not just our priorities but also our values. And so I just want to say that I want to say that I had an amendment that had funding that would. not necessarily remove roads, but keep them on the standard timeline that they were on, which would free up $6 million that could have went towards FIRE, nonprofit organizations, IWBC, Coronado Theater, Sound System, business associations for existing and new, and additional award funds. And it was... Something that I still think that many people on this council agree with and want to see happen And so I'm very grateful to this administration for having the conversation about being able to see through some of these ideas That came about and so that's my hope is that that is how we continue to move forward as we continue to see funds Grow and come into this community. Thank you other woman Wilkins THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. I JUST WANTED TO ANNOUNCE THAT NORTHWEST COMMUNITY CENTER IS CELEBRATING THEIR 75TH ANNIVERSARY SO THEY WILL BE HAVING THEIR PANCAKES AND PIANOS OCTOBER 26TH, MY BIRTHDAY. FEEL FREE TO GIVE ME GIFTS OR GIVE ME A TICKET. IT WILL BE AT 530 AT NIU ROCKFORD CONFERENCE CENTER AT 8500 EAST STATE STREET. I CAN SHARE THAT WITH EVERYONE'S EMAIL IF YOU WOULD LIKE. Okay, seeing none we'll move on to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under Planning and development code and regulations, so we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost number one The committee recommends approval the award of a joint purchase contract for pothole patch truck from Burr camp in the amount of two hundred and sixty eight thousand Three hundred ninety one dollars. This is a single purchase item the funding sources are the capital lease funds and the street division capital budget and Number two, the committee recommends approval of an award of RFP for vacant and foreclosing property registry to Opportunity Space in the annual amount of $15,000. It's a one-year contract with four possible one-year extension options for funding sources of the construction services operating budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of an award of bid for bulk lubricants to Rilco Lubricants. an estimated amount of $40,000. It's a one-year contract with four possible one-year extensions. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered a contract renewal only for the bulk lubricants. The funding sources, the equipment fund operating budget. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the following gaming tax revenue recommendations. A, Rockford University, Rockford Promise, expanding the program to offer Rockford University as an option for Rockford Promise graduates 600,000. B, high risk neighborhood economic development $150,000. C, Hard Rock Casino Foundation has agreed upon in the host community agreement to establish and fund a foundation annually matching casino contributions up to $250,000. rave redevelopment fund to assist the marketing in marketing to balance the effects of the casino in stage bookings on city supportive facilities managed by rave through an updated IGA $100,000 II police and fire building funds regular capital investment in police and fire facilities currently funded through the general fund and often on an emergency basis of 1 million dollars pension fund obligations contributions Providing additional annual contribution towards the unfunded liabilities in each fund not to replace the minimum actually required contribution two million dollars so 1 million per fund G support arts and culture two hundred fifty thousand dollars H International Women's Baseball Museum buyer three hundred thousand dollars I balance for future budget allocation tied to economic development redevelopment projects 850,000 including 500,000 annually for two years as a long-term loan to the rocker community investment fund for additional small business development loans for residential rehabilitation For the expansion of housing in low to moderate income neighborhoods number five the committee recommends approval of the information technology managed services in sourcing recommendation and bring contracted positions in-house for estimated cost of 1.8 million dollars This cost is includes inclusive all benefits including IMRF contributions health insurance unemployment workers compensation life insurance and parking funding sources information technology fund operating budget 6 the committee recommends approval of the 2023 budget surplus plan as follows a close to negative tiff balances garrison and $450,216 and hope six eight hundred and thirty one thousand one hundred and forty eight dollars be risk management fund two million dollars See CIP board funds one-time additional two hundred and fifty thousand for public infrastructure which is a total amount of three point five million for all the wards and D, Alpine Road resurfacing, Highcrest Road to Spring Creek Road, $1.5 million. E, Mulford Road resurfacing from Fincham Drive to Guilford Road and Gale Lane to Churchview Road, $4.5 million. F, Spring Creek resurfacing, Welsh Road to Mulford Road, $3 million. G, West Riverside Boulevard resurfacing, Rockton Street to Latham Street and Central Avenue to Packard Street, $3 million. H infrastructure at South Main Street and bypass 22.5 million stabilization of city-owned chick hotel building $550,000 J facade repairs at city on Coronado theater Supplemental by grant funds 1 million dollars K pedestrian improvements at the PCI facility on Linden Road $50,000 L Discovery Museum $100,000 I placed these manners before you I Thank You alderman frost council is heard discussion on the items before us alderman rose. Thank you your honor Just real quick. I just wanted to Say alderman Meeks, you know what your speech there I think was really well done. I know conversations with other City Council members on making some additional changes to these Surplus plan And casino revenue or I'm sorry The marijuana revenue were happening and one that I hope that as we continue to push these Agenda items forward. I wanted to say thank you to the mayor's team for providing us with an extended amount of projects that will totally benefit the entirety of the city, so I think it's a a great plan, but I do want us to Consider that in future Surplus years that we take a look at our fire stations and our fire services because one thing that is apparent is that the 30 or 31,000 plus calls each year just as I think at this point almost unsustainable for Our both our fire department, but for the services that are impacted by those and so I would just encourage our staff to Keep those in mind in future budget years, but also looking at ways we can continue to reduce those calls of service. I know that the city has engaged in our Team down in Springfield to do some of that work so I hope those conversations continue to be had because I just think it's very important that our fire department be able to respond to calls in a Timely manner but also to give our firefighters that needed relief in between calls they just are inundated with calls all day and I guess my biggest hope would be that we take on some of the abusers of the some of those calls and and we know who some of them are but engaging with the state and making sure that you know we we can tackle that problem moving forward thank you thank you other one makes with the with the casino revenue casino tax revenue what we have budgeted for is for the minimum amount. And based on projections, I feel like there's a possibility that there's more money coming out of that fund. How is that money being used? How are we planning to disperse those funds? Absolutely. Thank you. Good question. Mr. Cagnoni or... Yeah. Thank you, Your Honor. Within the host community, take one step back. You are correct, Alderman Meeks. It is possible that there could be greater tax revenue than $7 million off the casino. There also could be less than that amount. However, there's a true-up requirement within the host community agreement that brings forward that $7 million. So we'll be able to track that as we continue to go forward and report it to Council through the permanent casino. So should there be additional tax revenues that can be programmed either through the general fund budget on an annual basis or set aside for initiatives such as this, we can do that. And would that come back to Council then? Both would. Okay, it went through the budget or a special process saying we have 400 000 over They were both items would come before you alderman bailey. Yeah, um, thank you for allowing me to speak I I don't think I was here when the uh hca was created with looking at you know, that seven million dollar mark How did we derive at that number with with the casino tax? I'm, just curious which one would Okay, mr. Cagnoni Thank you. So there was a pretty extensive RFP process in where we had asked for individuals that were interested in establishing a casino within the City of Rockford to provide responses. Based on those responses, we wanted to understand what the community impacts would be as well as the revenue, which ultimately led to negotiations and through those negotiations that's where the minimum $7 million payment came from. Yeah, because I'm hoping that it's more. Office our alderman timber then Alderman Prunty if the 13 Ward Ward 13th Ward alderman would go there more maybe We would have more question on the the item G For the arts and culture I was just wondering, Mayor, and I know there's been some conversations, but we had a presentation last week on the importance of the PA system at the Coronado and that being much needed. And would you, I think that would probably fall under... the arts and culture if if needed on that so i would ask for your input as well absolutely alderman tunberg it would uh fall in line with that uh anything that supports arts and culture could fall that's kind of specific and broad enough so that we could gather things like that for the system that i think i mean you've been passionate about uh for the coronado that could potentially also be used out in davis park as well Right. Thank you. And I think that is very, yeah, very important that it is a mobile system. Just a reminder that as we try to activate Davis Park more, because I think without question Davis Park has been definitely underutilized and with that system it would be mobile and it could be helpful and useful there. So thank you. Absolutely. Alderwoman Frunty. Thank you. I just wanted to say this about Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you. That was beautifully stated. And then just say that I echo her sentiment and look forward to further discussion about some of the things that she mentioned. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you. Other items on Alderman Bonney? CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. So I've been gone for a couple of weeks, but did I did I just hear alderman toonberg expressing support for a national landmark? I'm wondering if he wants to also confess to the burglary of alderman hoffman's house while he's at it Okay any other Items clerk. Could you please call the roll? tuber frost terena prunty wilkins hoffman rose beach barrios meeks Bailey funny 13 9. Thank you. Next. We'll go to new business. We have nothing under plan development So we'll go to code and regulation committee all the woman Trina. First of all, I'm missing my paperclip cup off my desk I Containers Number one, an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the south side of Sawyer Road from 385 feet west of 20th Street to 370 feet west of 20th Street. Number two, an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the north side of 18th Avenue from 18th Street to 200 feet west of 8th Street, thus repealing the existing two-hour parking restriction on the north side of 18th Avenue from 8th Street to 200 feet west of 8th Street. Number three, an ordinance establishing a handicap parking restriction on the south side of Elm Street from 95 feet west, Church Street to 115 feet west of Church Street. Thus repealing the existing 30 minute parking restriction on the south side of Elm Street from 95 feet west of Church Street to 115 feet west of Church Street. Board ordinance improving a special use permit for a drive-through pickup window and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 60 75 East Riverside Boulevard number five in ordinance approving a modification of special use permit 0 5 0 dash 0 dash 9 0 with an overnight storage of Customer vehicles, the elimination of required landscaping, outdoor storage of a shipping container to allow the business to operate in a C1 limited office zoning district, an R2 two-family residential zoning district at 1275 North Main Street. Number six, an ordinance approving a text amendment for article 80-009D, miscellaneous non-conforming uses. Nothing in this provision allows illegally established non-conforming parking lots and driveways to remain. Number seven, an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink class NGWB in conjunction with the restaurant store in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 6150 East State Street. 8. An ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license for a 20% stock transfer in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 4343 East 8th Street. 9. An ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license for a 20% stock transfer in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 4343 East 8th Street. general courses only district at 39 51 3957 West Riverside Boulevard and we're 10 in ordinance approving the annexation of 44 27 Arbor Street 11 ordinance approving the annexation agreement for 4427 Arbor Street 12 an ordinance approving the extension and modification of the downtown social district. Thank you. Thank you Is there any discussion on that items before you please call the roll? timber frost Tarina printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Neat funny 12 eyes sir second we have a motion we second anyone want to discuss it no good have a good night all those in favor say aye