that you would be able to guide the minds and thoughts of those who are here. Lord, that it would be what you would have done that would benefit the city of Rockford. We also pray, Lord, that you would be with our police and fire departments as they look after us for our safety in all areas. We ask that you would guide and direct in everything that is said and done. For we ask in Jesus' name, amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Could we please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Getchis. Here. McNamara. Here. Frost. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Odo. Here. Newberg. Here. Beach. Here. Elliott. Here. Beck. Here. McNeely. Here.
 cheerleading 12 present thank you very much we do a quorum to motion except the journal journal has been moved and seconded again this is the proceedings from September 19th 2016 journey changes on minutes to the journal very knowledge and favorites of accepting the journalist please signify by saying I was no I said thank you unfinished business
 Ms. Eklund, do you want to comment on the issue on the first item on finance? I'm sorry, and I will ask Paula and Bec, do you want to introduce it? We're not going to do public speaking first, right? You know what, my apologies, I skipped right over it, didn't I? No. Well, this, I know this item is going to be laid over, so.
 Our public speaking speakers have been moved for whatever reason to item three after an unfinished business. So I think it was because originally, just so you can make the announcement, originally we were going to have some guests in speaking at the bond sale that did not go forward. If you just want to introduce that and Kerry Eflin can give us some details. I'd like to move that we lay this item over.
 and moved in second could carry just a little background certainly so we had some timing issues with getting our final completed audit underwriters prior to the sale today and on
 When looking at adjusting the schedule, we can move forward with the sale, but a number of underwriters, including many large New York area banks that would be very competitive, wouldn't be willing to submit a bid for the bond sale without having a final completed audit.
 So that is, we determined that it would be best to wait to sell the bonds when we get the most competition and the best rate because of the size of this issue. We want to make sure that we keep that interest cost as low as possible. So the item will come back before it...
 The schedule is delayed a little bit as well because of the election, so it'll come back to City Council on November 21st. And we do have sufficient cash to cover the expenses of the program until that time. Thank you. Any further discussion? A motion to lay the matter over. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. By not having the audit completed, it will not affect our rate.
 No, and I've distributed the rating memo. That rating's already been finalized by Moody's. They did base the rating on draft financials, and they were satisfied with that. So as you could tell from the memo and the email I sent out last week, our bond rating has been maintained at A1 for this sale. Thank you, Your Honor. I noticed that the interest was quoted at like 4.75. Do you think it could get better than that? Yes.
 Yes. That's the recommendation that waiting could likely result in a Yeah, because it seems a little out of order. Yes, absolutely. And that's again part of waiting until after the election is done when there's a little bit more certainty in the market and when we've got more competition. So Any additional questions? Hearing none, the date would be, it would be laid over to which date specifically?
 November 21st. So it's a motion to lay the matter over until November 21st. Any additional conversation, discussion? All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The matter will be laid over. Now we'll move on to public speakers. As a reminder, our public speakers can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Public speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start going over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Toby Haldeman.
 When will it be safe to walk down Broadway? 60-year-old robbed in broad daylight, 1,200 block Broadway. If you walked or drove down Broadway, you'd see why people are being attacked on a weekly basis. Just look at who is hanging out in front of the stores. Just last week, a guy, mid-60s, was attacked at the bus stop, Broadway and 7th, by three knuckleheads, spent several days in the hospital.
 And still no cameras on Broadway. Still no B-Cops. Stop the violence and the silence. Call Crime Stoppers. What does this American flag mean to you? The symbol of our country. At the beginning of every meeting, you stand and give it respect. You do not sit. You do not take a knee. You give it the proper respect for the freedom fighters that died defending this symbol.
 Two weeks ago, you may have noticed that I walked out of chambers when one of the speakers began his speech, and I returned when he was finished. Let me explain. During the Pledge of Allegiance, he decided to sit while everyone else stood to give respect to this symbol of our country. Sitting, of course, is his right, just as it is my right to not listen to what he had to say.
 Colin Kaepernick, what is your end game? What are you going to try to do to fix what you believe is wrong? Taking a knee is not a solution. And has anyone here approached Prophet Yusuf in regards to his 30-man patrol? If not, why not? Tonight, while we are all snug in our beds, Julian Assange of WikiLeaks
 We'll be opening up the vault on Hillary's emails. Be prepared to be upset, disgusted, and betrayed by what she has done. How does that one song go? I'm proud to be a deplorable...
 Where at least I know I'm free, and if you vote for Hillary, she will take our liberties. Well, it goes something like that. Anyways, I will not be silent, I will be heard. And on a final note, congratulations, Grandpa Dennis on Broadway. Thank you, have a good evening. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy and our arguments and our opponents in Rockford, Illinois, and our citizens that sit in this gallery.
 I'm going to freestyle by saying, Yehudah walked through the valley of the shadow of death. I shall fear no evil. This past week, we had Pastor Jerry Brown come from Boston, Illinois, and do a seminar. And we had more than 20 people that sat in that room. The good thing that Pastor Jerry Brown was able to bring to the table, we had ministers,
 or postures and rivers who were never said never will get back to discuss about walking the streets at night and Other part was that a lot of them that were sitting at that table never actually walked the street so Monday
 We went into the Ellis Heights and we walked into Fairgrounds and they was with me and I spearheaded the lead. When we got into Fairgrounds, there was over 40 youth and young adults. They were looking for another group, a gang that they was going to engage.
 And they went to go get their gaps or whatever. But then when they seen me spearheading it, the leader came and approached me, greeted me, and let me know what was going on. And they put their weapons away. I thought about that. And then we went across the other side of the fairground where we engaged a group of the Gabbling. They saw us coming. They thought we was 100 strong. When they saw my face, they recognized it was me.
 they engaged us they was talking to us and they said we see john out here all the time we'll never see y'all we're glad to see y'all out here so when we left fairground there was shots fired so what could i have done with that information i thought about that too the next day we went to uh but uh next day we had a meeting all the pastors talked about the uh the way everyone knew me
 uh... all the fairgrounds and the same thing when we went to Black Hawk before we got to Black Hawk one lady stopped me she seen us walking her name was Patricia Cadenas she stayed at 1228th street and it was dark she said she needed her street lights
 back put back up so I see what I get you should be home. I don't know who all the years but I do have a good address lane. I was going to bring that up the streets is dark and that's the first thing to just mention the dark areas where the crime is kept so we walked black call before we get to black on the scene to call the bill there was a individual who got killed
 I knew the family members, I knew a lot of the families when we got in Fairgrounds. The pastors that were with me also noticed how the people was engaging me and we talked about that and we also talked about other concerns. We went into Blackhawk Center and then Mike even talked about it. He also talked about why they don't have any funds to run events on Saturday nights. We should be able to have funds to run...
 I want to end by, last but not least, talking about domestic violence. I know two young men who got females that's terrorizing them, but they're afraid to speak up. They don't know who to turn to. We always talk about the females that's being abused, and they
 we don't talk about the mail being you so would we have a new information who can I take this information to who can I turn them to so they cannot go physically with that female when females even said she would get her son or her kids to jump on him if he was to if he didn't do what she wanted him to do just to help you we have judge Collins that happened to be here tonight if you want to sit tight
 During the meeting, she will be accepting a proclamation on behalf of Domestic Violence Month and she has a great wealth of information as well as our police department and our human services department. So if you hang around the meeting long enough, we'll help you get connected and help those individuals. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Philippians, the fourth chapter, 13 verse, it says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthened me. What I want to speak about tonight, police officers should be trained to deal with people who have mental illnesses.
 The best Chicago news of the past week was that announcement that the city's police will be better trained to deal with the mentally ill. Maybe there are a few people out there who think that mental illness is no immediate personal concern of theirs, certainly not the kind of mental illness that might involve the police. Maybe they think it's just the stuff of news story, the kind we've seen too much of lately, about less fortunate people in unfortunate places.
 The rest of us know otherwise. Mental illness touches all kinds of families, all kinds of workplaces, everywhere. And where there's mental illness, particularly, where there's a shortage of decent care, there's a reasonable chance the police will be drawn in.
 Police officers, however, are rarely trained as social workers, and their lack of understanding of how to deal with mentally ill people can make a bad moment worse. Here's a story about a police and a mentally ill person. A landlord called the police about a suicidal tenant. When the police arrived, the tenant, a large African American man,
 man was on the couch. The police gave him orders. He was trying to process and comply, but before he knew it, he had a pile of police officer on him. He was scared. He thought I could get killed here. At the same time, the officers no doubt had entered the house without knowing what weapons might be around, not understanding that the man might not be able to fathom their orders quickly. If everybody in the situation is scared, it's likely
 to turn into something they need to be scared of. All police officers and first responders and 911 dispatchers should go through a 40-hour intervention crisis training for mentally ill people. It won't turn police into psychiatrists, but it will help.
 them better understand how to recognize mental illness and how to productively respond. Mental illness come in many forms and manifests in different ways. It can be tempting though wrong-headed to respond as if the ill person is simply behaving badly, knowing willfully. Mental illness is a mental or emotional disorder that substantially impairs the person's thought, perception of reality, emotional process, judgment, behavior, or ability to cope with the ordinary demands of life. Police are called on to deal with mentally ill people.
 in a variety of places. They may be summoned to a business, called to a school, called to a home. They may take the mentally ill person to the hospital only to have the person quickly dismissed. They are frustrated. They don't see the mental health system stepping up.
 So most of the people in juvenile and penitentiaries are 95% of them are mentally ill. They shouldn't be locked up. They should be in a facility to get treatment. They should open back up all the mental and drug and alcoholic facilities and manufacturing facilities. This would help reduce the crime rate in the United States because people would have the help for their mental problems and jobs. If you get me...
 I done been speaking about it constantly. Give me 30 men or women. You ain't got to be in the military. Just give me walking talkers. I'll reduce your crime to nothing. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you to our public speakers this evening. Petitions and communications. Call them shortly. Thank you, Your Honor. The first item I have is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson, Land Transaction Officer. Thank you.
 We will sell a portion of Cedar Street lot. The second is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on October 12, 2016 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Rights Committee meeting on October 24, 2016. Third item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events. The fourth is a memorandum from Alderman Thompson Kelly regarding all resident requirements
 that are noted on the agenda here under the municipal code for additions and amendments. All four of these items will be referred to codes and rights, Your Honor. Thank you, thank you, managers. We'll be referred all the way back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding Head Start, early Head Start special needs waiver request. I have a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Development Programs Manager, regarding abandoned residential property, municipality relief program.
 Round number two, I have a memorandum from Legal Director Patrick Hayes regarding extension of intergovernmental agreement for the operation and funding of Winnebago County Emergency Telephone System. I have a memorandum from Kerry Eklund, Interim Finance Director, regarding 2016 property tax abatements. I have a memorandum from Kerry Eklund, Interim Finance Director, regarding 2016 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance.
 And I have a memo from Carrie Eklund regarding 2016 property tax levy ordinance. And then I have one more memo from Carrie Eklund regarding 2016 street and bridge levy ordinances. And these seven items will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you, matters will be referred.
 any additional petitions or communications element tons of kelly i have some communications with one of my constituents i'd like to refer that to the police department property standards and also our contact person through rockford housing authority i also have communication from the animal service department of winnebago county that is that has given me their
 2016 second quarterly report if any alderman is interested in reading this The clerk can make some copies for you. I also have communications from
 business that will be having a grand opening next Monday at 10 a.m. It is Granny's Home Cooking at 3605 Auburn Street. The grand opening would consist of Alderman McNamara and Alderman Newberg and myself, and I hope that all of you can attend. I have a flyer on each one of your desks. Thank you. Thank you. Further petitions and communications? Proclamations? Proclamations.
 Our first proclamation is regarding Domestic Violence Awareness Month, and I invite Judge Rosemary Collins and any other members of her working group on domestic violence that might be here to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Whereas domestic violence crosses all socioeconomic lines, including but not limited to race, ethnicity, gender, age, education, employment, and marital status,
 And whereas in the state of Illinois, domestic violence-related crime is reported 342 times per day, the Rockford Police Department responded to 4,287 calls for service for domestic violence-related offenses in 2015. Whereas last year, over 1,400 child and adult victims of domestic violence sought emergency shelter, legal advocacy, and hotline services from local domestic violence programs, Remedies Renewing Lives,
 Likewise, over 2,800 emergency orders of protection were requested in Winnebago County. And whereas the City of Rockford will help raise awareness and shine light on this issue by lighting City Hall and the Morgan Street Bridge purple, the designated color of Domestic Violence Awareness Month, for the first two weeks of October.
 Whereas also throughout the month of October, the city police department and county sheriff's department, Office of Domestic Violence, and other collaborative prevention groups will be hosting several events to bring awareness of domestic violence and give hope to all victims of abuse struggling with the issue. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2016 to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
 And we encourage citizens to rally support for domestic violence victims and to volunteer with organizations pledging to end this crime that plagues not only our fair city, but society at large. Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, and thank all of you. Really, you're all my people, because all of you do so much in your own way.
 to help with domestic violence in our community. One of the things in the packet that I handed out today was information and questions that you can ask. You know, a gentleman spoke about what can we do about domestic violence. Well, there's a lot you can do. There's things to say, and we have a little card in there, six things to say if somebody speaks to you about domestic violence.
 We also have a list of the activities around Domestic Violence Awareness Month to help bring this terrible issue to the attention of all in our community. And we really ask for all of your support with all the activities that help support the agencies that work so hard on this issue.
 You know, tomorrow night we're having a press conference to announce that we're getting a $650,000 federal grant to work specifically on the issue of domestic violence homicide in our community. And we're working very closely with your police department, who's just been wonderful to work with, and I appreciate that.
 to help reduce this problem in our community. Of the 102 communities, counties in Illinois, 16 reported a domestic violence homicide in 2015. Five were reported from this area.
 So you can see it's a real serious problem. It affects every man, woman, and child in our community. And if all of us work together, we really can make a difference in people's lives, which will make a difference in the lives of our children. So I want to thank you all for making this proclamation and for joining with us to help work on this serious issue.
 Since I'm a short time, Mariana, and this is our last time that I'll have a chance to be with you in this Council setting on Domestic Violence Awareness Month, I just want to thank you personally for all of your commitment to this incredibly important effort.
 Thanks to you and to your discussions with me, we started several years ago tracking domestic violence specifically as a subset of our overall violent crime rate. And the statistics were just staggering when we first started looking at it. Now we're becoming very familiar as an organization that a good 20 to 25 percent of our violence
 crime every month is related to domestic violence. But thanks to you and your pushing constantly, we have our work that we're doing right now in partnership with the county. We've hired the social services support and we're working through the lethality assessment process
 One of the things that you've helped me understand and others who are experts in the field, that domestic violence doesn't happen typically overnight. It comes from a pattern of trauma, a pattern of control, and it's something that if we are communicating well, if we're asking the right questions, the type of things that are part of this lethality assessment process, hopefully we'll be able to intervene and do the very best we can to stem the tide of domestic violence and really turn the tide around.
 One final thing I'll mention because of our, just coincidentally have up tonight, our issues with Rosecrans.
 but Rosecrans Remedies, other behavioral health and mental health specialists. We're doing what we can. We appreciate the grant, but we know grants may run out. And this work that we're doing with Medicaid and the behavioral health, our goal is to transition from grant-based funding to other consistent program funding so we can support prevention and make sure there's financial resources to provide the behavioral health interventions that both a victim
 or a potential suspect might help them. So thank you again for all your work. We appreciate it, and may God bless you and your continued work for our community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, yes, you. That's just my notes. Thank you again. Our next proclamation is regarding...
 Unitarian Universalist Church, 175th anniversary month. And we'd invite members of the church that are here, including their board president, Teresa Wilmot, to please come forward to accept the proclamation.
 Whereas some of Rockford's first settlers, including Daniel Shaw Haight and Thatcher Blake, were proud Unitarian Universalists and helped establish the Unitarian Universalist churches in Rockford in 1841. Whereas Universalism and Unitarianism were vital and powerful forces at the beginning of the United States, leading the way toward a more democratic vision of the religious and civic life. And whereas other early leaders of the church leading the way were Augustus Conant,
 who worked for abolition, and Dr. Thomas Kerr, known for bringing his scientific and intellectual ideas to the congregation. During his ministry, Charles Parker Connolly helped launch the Rockford Social Service Federation, now named the United Way, the Booker T. Washington Center, Kiwanis Club, and the Winnebago County Tuberculosis Association, among others. And whereas the Unitarian Universalist Church continues to be a vital presence in our community, with its members involved in many of our civic projects.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2016 to be Unitarian Universalist Church's 175th anniversary month, and we urge citizens to celebrate with the Unitarian Universalist Church and their historic 175 years in our community. Would you like to share a little bit more? Thank you. I'd just like to say that for 175 years, the Unitarian Universalist Church has been a voice for justice in this community. Thank you very much.
 Thank you again. And our final proclamation this evening is for Oaktober Month, Oak Awareness Month, and I invite Kim Wheeler-Johnson, Director of Marketing and Membership for the Natural Land Institute, to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Whereas the state tree of the state of Illinois is the white oak, and whereas oak ecosystems have been a significant part of our Illinois landscape for more than 5,000 years and are now in a state of decline.
 Whereas Illinois forests, woodlands, and savannas have been greatly reduced, and the oak ecosystems are declining in health due to the decline of oak dominance. Whereas these declines are due to a lack of public awareness, invasive species, poor management practices, and reduced resources. Whereas the Illinois Wildlife Action Plan identifies the quality of wooded habitats in Illinois as a major concern and recognizes the need to understand and manage oaks that are in decline in the state.
 Whereas Oak Awareness Month is an opportunity for government to join forces with business, industry, conservation groups, recreational groups, community organizations and citizens to take action supporting our native oak ecosystems. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Mosey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2016 to be Oaktober Month, Oak Awareness Month. And we encourage all citizens to promote awareness and to improve the health and services of
 towards our okay ecosystems and natural resources in our communities so I just got a little more thank you very much mayor Morrissey and alderman for the opportunity to make
 are public aware of the importance of oak trees in our natural and human communities. And for this, Natural Land Institute is celebrating this month with two events. And I do have a flyer that I put on each alderman's desk, and then I'll put the extra ones back here on the ledge for anyone in the room that's interested.
 On Saturday, October 8th, we have a citizen science bird monitoring workshop for our Niagara and Wetland Preserve. And then we have a free hike guided tour called Oaktober Hike. That's kind of a mouthful, isn't it? Oaktober Hike on October 22nd to let people see our private preserve, Burr Oak Valley Preserve, and this flyer has more information on it. So thank you very much, Mayor Morrissey. Thank you again.
 I just want to make a note that on your agenda you may also see that fire prevention week was up for proclamation. We're actually going to do that next week and just sneak it in during our committee schedule. Next.
 New Committee Reports, Alderman Durkee. In the honor of one item, under Roman numeral 6A, number 1, the committee recommends approval of the East River TIF redevelopment project, area development agreement with Madison Street Properties, LLC, for property collectively located at 220 South Madison Street, also known as Millennium Center.
 307 wallace street 323 walnut street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance first i'd like to suspend rules on the item second it's been a motion second to spend the rules on roman numeral six a one all those in favor please say aye opposed no uh i just have it thank you your honor they i would like to place that up for passage thank you matters up for passage is their discussion while i'm in mcnamara thank you mayor uh
 Just a couple of clarification questions. First, I'm certainly in support of the utilization of TIF dollars and the development agreement to transform the Millennium Center into a hotel. And I'd really appreciate Council's support with the development agreement.
 With that being said, I'd also thank city staff, the RACVB, and the folks from Joseph James in decoupling the hotel-motel tax that was initially put forth. I have a question for Legal Director Hayes, just for clarity. If city council, the way I understand the current agreement is that we're, in essence, kicking the can down to the...
 down the road until we have a discussion over the visitor convention bureau contract that comes up in December I believe. If for some reason the council as a whole votes for an agreement with the visitor and convention bureau that does not include hotel motel tax to go directly from the Millennium Center to the RRDP as initially presented,
 What is the next action is there is there any other action items is there anything else that we should know about mr. Hayes Thank you for the question clearly the Language in the agreements aspirational on this issue it states the present intentions of the city, but it doesn't Wet us to any set of outcomes because it leaves a discretion in the City Council I
 I think the idea of a downtown marketing or hotel marketing, amenity marketing set of issues will be part of the discussion, and staff has some ideas that we'll be presenting as part of our renewal of the CBB contract. It will be within the discretion of the city council what winds up in that agreement and what does not.
 I appreciate that. Mayor, could I have one follow-up? Sure. I just want to then again reiterate my support for this development. I'm not in favor of utilizing the hotel tax from that particular development into a
 dedicated pool for the RRDP, but I think the development's great. I think the transformation of that hotel really builds on the investment this council has made in the sports factory across the street. And also, I'll mention publicly that
 My disinterest in utilizing the hotel tax in the fashion that was presented before us has nothing to do with the developer or the organization. I think the RRDP has obviously proven itself to be a good asset in our downtown. I just think we have a fashion to provide community groups money when they request it. Further discussion?
 Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just had a question as well. With respect to the development agreement we have and the memo that was given with the memo contained the language of putting the money in the escrow or as Alderman McNamara so stated, kicking the can down the road. Is that in the development agreement itself?
 Mr. Ace. It's in the agreement that was posted. It's in the agreement that's before the City Council for action. It's the agreement that was adopted by the committee. We do have that obligation to hold the funds until we execute the successor agreements with both of those entities. But how we discharge those funds, to Alderman McNamara's question directly, is going to be within the discretion of the City Council.
 So as an interim step, the funds will be held. But once those agreements are struck, whatever is in those agreements, that's how we'll distribute those funds. Just as a practical matter, just as a follow-up to Mr. Hayes' comments, our contract with RACVB is set to expire at the end of this year. We're currently negotiating terms with them on a successor agreement. The construction on the proposed hotel that's the subject of this discussion –
 That hotel won't start generating taxes until the spring or at the earliest when it's completed. So essentially it should be a moot issue that we will have successor agreements in place before there's even a need to escrow any funds. Alderman Frost? Could you just provide me with a paragraph, Mr. Hayes, in the development agreement that speaks about the escrow language?
 It doesn't specifically mention an escrow, I don't believe. It just says... So the language of the agreement at Section 3.3, Your Honor, is under hotels operators' occupation tax.
 The active part is the city will hold the funds generated by the project and paid to the city pursuant to the Municipal Code provision until such time as the city's successor agreements with RACVB and RRDP are adopted by the City Council or such further action is directed by the City Council. As you can see, that language obligates us if we do receive the funds prior to the execution of the successor agreements that we'd hold them
 But once those successor agreements are executed, we'll discharge those funds according to the terms of that agreement. And as the mayor said, although I try to stay away from predictive models, it's highly likely that none of these funds will ever be held by the city because we'll have the successor agreements by that time. Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Newberg. Aye.
 Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. McNeely. Tierney. Ten ayes, two noes, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. On enrollment number 6B, I have 1, 14 items, Your Honor, I'd like to suspend the rules on. Second. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on enrollment number 6B, items 1 through 14. All those in favor, please signify by saying aye. Aye.
 Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to put up for passage items 1 through 14 under 6B. Those items are now up for passage. Is there a discussion? Alderman Frost. With respect to B1, is a yes vote for that, meaning you're for the lucky spending, or is it a no vote for that? Mr. Hayes. Yes. The committee recommended...
 sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of liquor by the drink. So a yes vote on this would support the use, the liquor use, at that location. You may recall that staff's recommendation was to decline, but both the LTAB and the committee asked for approval. The approval at the committee was subject to some additional conditions worked out between the proprietor and staff. Alderman McIntyre.
 Thank you, Mayor. And just for clarity, as we discussed last week, we'll be reviewing these on a quarterly basis. Ms. Chase? I think that we had agreed that we'll start presenting the ratio analysis of these entities on a quarterly basis. So the finance department will work out that analysis and reporting schedule. Alderman Newbert. Thank you. This is not in my award, but...
 It's close to my ward, and I've had many calls this last week of people being excited about having another, and it's not a gambling facility. It's not a slot facility. It is a very nice, proven restaurant, and there are not that many along North Main. I think you'd have to go down to Deli Italia.
 is the closest, that's like four blocks away. To go in and have a sandwich with a glass of wine or a glass of beer, you've got to go down to the Olympic, which is like nine to 12 blocks away. Other than that, this northwest corridor that Alderman Beck and myself are representing does not have a lot of nice...
 places to go to have a sandwich, to have a beer, maybe to have a glass of wine. In addition to that, they're going to have slots. I think we're looking at this as a slots place, and we have to remember this has a proven record, I think, from three other establishments within the state where they are very, very popular eating establishments. So I'm in support of it. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion.
 Further discussion, Alderman Beck? I just want to echo Alderman Newberg's comments. And, you know, we did look quite a bit at this one. And as she said, they are an established company that as long as they do what they say they're going to do, I think it's going to be a great addition to our west side and to North Main Street. And I feel comfortable that we have –
 A method in place as Alderman McNamara had mentioned, that if for some reason they don't meet the city's 50% ordinance, as far as 50% being food and beverage, then we have ways to address that. So I feel it's gonna be a nice investment in this building and hopefully as they say that they're gonna do what they're gonna say they're gonna do, it'll be a nice addition of amenities to the people in the area. Thank you, further discussion?
 Hearing none, please call the roll. Gerke. No on B1. Aye. Gatches. No on B14. Aye. McNamara. No on 14. Aye. Frost. No on B1. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. No on B4. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Items 1 and 14, 9 ayes, 3 noes. Items 2, 3, 4. Aye.
 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 12 ayes. That is all passed. Thank you. Thank you. Finance and personnel, I'll let them back. Thank you, Your Honor. Under 6C, items 1 and 2, I answer suspension of rules. Then a motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 6C.
 And it's one to all those in favor please say aye aye Those no I said it that plays them up the passage Matters are up for passage is their discussion hearing none clerk. Please call the roll turkey edges McNamara frost Thompson Kelly Odo Newburgh Beach Ellie back I make nearly cheerily 12 eyes
 Thank you very much. Matters passed. All in officer's reports.
 just a couple items could do it from my chair this evening we have a recommendation for an appointment community action advisory board of miss the Valentino selected by the corner of Haskell neighborhood Association of Philadelphia and find sector position on the request of Mr. George Davis our human services director yes that this for rule suspension when this of the
 potentially October 17th at our next council meeting. So if you have questions about this candidate for the Community Action Agency, I would just ask that you try to get those addressed if you can over the next couple weeks because we would like to take that up with a rule of suspension on October 17th.
 That's all I have in terms of my officer's report, other officers' reports. All in the terms of Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. Stay in. I feel better.
 And the groundbreaking ceremony for the District 1 station, in thanking everyone in the community, I failed, and my constituents let me know this, I failed to thank you and Jim Ryan for all the work that you've done and the process that we've gone through to make, to have a
 one, two, and three. So I do apologize. Without your help and Mr. Ryan's help, we would still be at the planning stage. Thank you. Thank you very much. Really unnecessary, but appreciated. It has been a great pleasure and really one of the easier things, I'm joking. One of the, not one of the easier things that we've done over the years, but hopefully one of the most rewarding for all of us. So I appreciate the comments, thank you.
 Further officers reports all the Mac. Thank you mayor this Thursday. There's There's a great event that the Rockford Arts Council is having called scene peak on this Thursday the 6th There's this special event called scene peak will open up the Arts Council's art scene for the fall Which is the following Friday and Saturday? So this the seventh and the eighth
 There's also an envelope on all of your desks provided by the Arts Council with free tickets for you to attend this event. I'd encourage you to attend, hear more about what the Arts Council is working on. There's also performances going on by Steve Vertel and others, as well as appetizers, and would urge you to consider attending that event on Thursday the 6th, and that is at 530 at Veterans Hall. Thank you. Further officers' reports?
 appointments laid over. All in back, you want to take those? Sure. We have the reappointment of Alice Jenkins to the Housing Authority for a term expiring August 2021. We have a reappointment of Ricardo Cervantes to the Rockford Housing Authority Board for a term expiring August 2021. And we have the reappointment of Phyllis Jastra to the Rockford Housing Authority Board
 for a term expiring 2021. And then we have the appointments or reappointments of the following individuals as directors of their municipal department in the city of Rockford. Todd Cagnone, Community and Economic Development, Carrie Eflin, Finance, Paul Denham, Human Resources, George Davis, Human Services, Glenn Trommels, Information Technology, Patrick Hayes, Legal, and Matt Bittner, Public Works. I place these up for passage. You can make a motion.
 to lay over all of them. I'll start with 1, 2, and... So the motion is for a layover of Roman numeral 8 items 1, 2, 3, and 4. It's been seconded. Is there discussion? Hearing none, all those in... I'm assuming that we just lay over until the next meeting? Yes, sir. There's been a motion to second the lay of the matter over. With no further discussion, all those in favor please say aye. Opposed, no. No. So I think the no's have it. Motion does not carry.
 And that is still up for discussion. Alderman Getschus. Thank you, Your Honor. For the appointments to the Housing Authority Board,
 I'm just going to let everybody know I plan on voting no on these appointments. It's in no way a reflection on the people being nominated. Two of the people who are nominated have served on the Rockford Housing Authority Board for over 10 years. One is just finishing up one term. I know that everyone on the Rockford Housing Authority Board has worked very hard on public housing in Rockford. They spent as much time in closed session and lawyered up as we have.
 There's a few reasons as to why I would like to see some fresh nominees. One, there's an opportunity to put two aldermen on the Rockford Housing Authority Board. I think we should do that. I think that would help the communication between us and the Rockford Housing Authority.
 A lot of the communications taking place right now between the City Council and the Rockford Housing Authority is actually being done through our lawyers, which is an unfortunate situation. I think the Housing Authority should work for us. I think that if we have a couple of aldermen on the Housing Authority, then we're in direct supervision as to what's going on, and then some of our questions would have to directly be answered.
 And so we would hope that you'll be able to minimize or start to reduce some of the costs that we're having to expand to get what we want out of our housing authority board.
 And then additionally, obviously there's been some frustration as to the direction their housing authority has gone. I would like to see some fresh ideas and some new people in there. So my no vote is in no way a reflection on these people's service. I know they have worked very hard. I thank them for it. And I encourage my colleagues in joining me in requesting a new direction for the housing authority. All in time, Skelly.
 supporting the appointment even though i know i know that you have served with undergoing also
 discussions in the housing committee looking at how we're doing business with the Rockford Housing Authority. I think this is another thing that we need to look at in our relationship and further planning on housing stock in this community. Therefore, I will not be reporting the appointments, Your Honor. And again, it's not because of the individuals. It's because of the planning that we're in the process of doing and how we want to help the stock.
 I'm in photo I believe is next on all the new work I'm I to agree on from what I understand Alice Jenkins is a resident and you have to have a resident of housing
 on the board and I know that she's been there a long time. I would like to see other residents come forward to participate on that board to have some sort of a say-so instead of Ms. Alice Jenkins. And I do agree, I think there need to be a couple aldermen sitting on that board. And I think that when terms are up, they're up and they've really gone way past their terms.
 alderman thank you uh i have to also support a no vote for these three people i think they've done a very a commendable job they've they've put in the time they've done what we've asked but i feel that in to help rockford housing authority board and the city council get to a better understanding of each
 Entity I think we have to have city council members on that board There are other boards that all of us as council members are are on Throughout the year and I think this is a very very crucial vote That that we need to be involved directly I don't want to hear things third and fourth down which is what we've been getting in the past I want the City Council to be directly
 involved in the Rockford Housing Authority. So I could not support these three people, even though they've done a good job. Further discussion? Alderman Frost. I had a question about number four. I remember when the resumes were passed around for some of the new department heads, there was a department head proposed that lived, I think, in the village of Cherry Valley. And I know, I think we do have an ordinance on department heads living in the city. Is that correct? Mr. Hayes, do you want to take that?
 So attached to the agenda today was a memo regarding questions I received about whether Department Eds need to live in the City of Rockville. And I've responded to that with some specific issues. It's customary in the city that when there's a new employee that has a residency requirement,
 that there's a period of time granted to that employee to move if they need to to comply. This applies to both our sworn police and firefighters,
 our classified service folks, which is basically the rest of the employees, and in the past, department heads. Most recently, Chief O'Shea, as we know, we hired him when he lived outside of the city of Rockford. The offer letter, which was presented to all the city council members before that was finalized, indicated he would have a period of time, six months, to move into the city, and an additional six months if he had trouble with the housing transaction.
 Mr. Ryan's memo suggested a period of time to give our existing employee, who presently is compliant with our residency requirements, living where he lives, as he transitions to a department head, some period of time to move. You may recall that Mr. Vittner relocated here to the city of Rockford to take the position, so he's recently relocated in order to come into compliance with our residency ordinance.
 When he was first hired as a city engineer. Right, when he was hired as a city engineer.
 There are a few options available to the city council if they want to make an exception, but the suggestion from staff would be to grant a period of time to the newly appointed department head to move into the city, and we believe that I think Mr. Ryan suggested 18 months because he's just recently moved to comply with that other, that was in the appointment memo. As a matter of law,
 sworn, or I'm sorry, appointed individuals need to live within the city, but giving a period of time to comply doesn't seem to be antagonistic to the law. I couldn't find any authority on that issue, but I would tell you that we've done it many times in the past, bringing in department heads. So some time to comply is appropriate and within our practices, and again, recently we had this occur. I hope I've answered your question.
 All my guesses. Thank you, Your Honor. And just to give my thoughts on that is just kind of personal calculus the department heads have to go through. As Mayor Morrissey referred to earlier, there's going to be a new mayor in May.
 Okay, and once a year department heads are up. I personally would not want to do a job where I'm up for You know contract renewal every year, but that's you know the choice that department heads make I really appreciate their service So personally I'm supporting if you're not currently a resident It's very possible that you're going to be in this job for less than a year because the new mayor can come in with new ideas I'm not sure how frequent that happens, but that's definitely a
 an option. I think that for me personally, I'm okay with anything that gives them a reasonable amount of time or anyone a reasonable amount of time to comply, but after you know you have the job in May. I'm not sure how often a new mayor comes in and makes a bunch of changes, but it's definitely an option. Legally, once a year,
 the department has come in front of us. So that's just my thought process. I'm very supportive of the appointments, and I encourage people to vote yes. Thank you. McNeely, then all of them back. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm just a little concerned about the human resource department. I know there are a number of individuals that have been working in that department for a number of years and surprised that
 one or two of them did not make it as the director for that department. So I don't intend to support that appointment. Thank you. Thank you. Alden Beck. I was just going to suggest that we separate the first three items for one vote and then have the fourth item as another vote just because they're quite different appointments. It makes sense. We will separate item four.
 First, actually we'll do the first three items first, then we'll do item four after. But we can take discussion on both right now. Alden McNeely.
 I would, I will be separating the department heads to vote separately. We can do that at that time? Sure. You know, if we, we will, the item is one item. If you have individuals within the item that you do not want to support, if you point that out while we're going through it as opposed to having to take one, two, three, four, five, six, seven separate votes.
 I'd prefer to just take them all. If there's somebody on the list that you don't want to support, just identify that and we'll keep track of it. Thank you. As long as Mr. Hayes says that's okay, we'll just proceed that way. Who is next? There was another hand or is that it? Absolutely. So we'll take the first three items on the RHA appointments first. Any additional questions on those? Hearing no further discussion on those items, clerk, please call the roll. Again, these are the appointments laid over.
 Roman roll eight items one two and three turkey that's just McNamara frost no Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Beach Ellie back I McNeely cheer Ellie ten eyes. I'm sorry 11 one. I 11 notes in the matters fail
 So then we'll go to Roman and roll it and just as an FYI, I think council members know this when we have appointments that fail to pass the folks that are in position remain in that position until they're replaced. Next is item 4 under Roman and roll 8, which are the directors of our municipal departments. Any additional discussions on those Alderman Thompson-Kelley? I would like to thank legal
 bringing my concerns to the attention of council. And for that reason, it's why I suggested that our ordinance make sure that our ordinance is properly compromised. Thank you for the memo. My decision is not a personal one. It was a request from the community and residents of this community, not an individual. Thank you. Any further discussion?
 Again, we'll go through our roll call on this, and if there's any individuals that you want to point out within the group that you are either for or against, just please let them be known. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Ross. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Newman. Aye. Grace. Aye. Ross. Aye.
 Cheerily. 12 ayes on everyone except one for Paul Denham. Thank you. The appointment is all carried. Motions and resolutions. Hall and Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have under Roman numeral IXc, items 1 through 7, and I place them up for passage. Thank you. For passage under motions and resolutions, Roman numeral IXc, items 1 through 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. Matters up for passage is their discussion.
 Alderman Frost. I would like to make some comments on number seven with respect to the Rosecrans triage center. Although I am not saying or advocating anything disparaging about Rosecrans, I think they're an outstanding organization, does outstanding work, not just in our community but throughout Northern Illinois. In fact, they just expanded into the near north side of Chicago. And their work is tremendous.
 The City of Rockford is not and should not be in the business of guaranteeing the State of Illinois grants to any entity whether it be a non-profit entity or some sort of other community service agency or grant receiving agency that relies on state funds. We all know that the State of Illinois has put
 residents, including municipalities like the City of Rockford, in a great difficult time in receiving funds as promised or as needed throughout the last budget crisis that we've been under and continue to be under. However, as the City of Rockford goes, we were asked, I think the way I recall this was the hospitals got together and said they would put in $50,000 if the city and the county put in $100,000.
 I don't know if the mayor was present and involved in those meetings or not. But we are opening ourselves up to a slippery slope of a litany of other community service organizations that are just as worthy as Rosecransons, serve a number of residents throughout the city of Rockford when they are in need.
 vote yes for this and start funding programs directly from our budget, we then are allowing or allowing other entities to come forward and ask for money.
 And I just don't think that's appropriate for the city, especially when we have a budget deficit of ourselves and we're being asked to fund $100,000 directly like this. This is not a federal pass-through program. I asked the city staff to give me from 2013 money.
 to present a list of nonprofit agencies and how they've been funded. And I can't find one specific nonprofit entity. And granted, Rosecrans has received funds from our HUD Continuum of Care grant, like the mayor mentioned. In 2014, it was $776,000. In 2015, Rosecrans received $844,000.
 And those programs are federal pass-through programs. They flow through the city of Rockford, but they are not taxpayer funds of the city of Rockford. They're federal funds that are funded by the federal government. And I think by allowing...
 This to go on, we are just really opening a Pandora's box. Especially with so many other great organizations that have been hit by the same problems that Rochekan's been, with respect to either a former governor making promises or promising a grant that didn't get funded,
 And I'm just, I'm concerned about that. And I'm also concerned about the fact that this really only provides a short-term solution. And I commend the Mayor for working on the 1115 waivers with Medicaid to allow the hospitals in Rose Pans
 to obtain funding so when an individual either goes to the triage center or goes to the hospital so they can be reimbursed for that. That's outstanding because that will hopefully continue to allow them to serve these folks who need service.
 That's a long-term solution. The short-term solution, if we don't get to the long-term solution, then really by passing and giving out $100,000, we've just created a band-aid for Rosecrans to stay open for a short amount of time. We don't know what's going to happen when that band-aid ends. Based on that, I would encourage my fellow aldermen to vote no for a variety of reasons, but most importantly is the fact that this is just not something that the City of Rockford has ever done before and really should be in the business of doing.
 Thank you. I want to just correct the record on one of the things Alderman Frost said as a point of information. You suggested that the hospitals got together and you wondered whether I was there. Let me just correct the record. Not only did I not participate in a meeting with hospitals, the hospitals did not all get together. RMH, now known as Mercy Health, made a challenge which was widely publicized that they would put X amount of dollars in if others did. One of those others was the City of Rockford.
 I made very clear in my discussions with Rose Prince and others, like any support that the city provided, and by the way, the other hospitals have said something similar, that they're supporting not based on the idea of a challenge, they're doing it based on the idea of it being the right thing to do under the circumstances that we're in.
 And so there wasn't a, I just want to make clear that there wasn't a big discussion in this sort of challenge environment, but also just make clear that I believe all of the hospitals now that have agreed to commit to funding have done so independent of one another. In other words, there's not some grand requirement that everybody's dollars come in or no dollars go in. I think they've made all commitments to go in. And we'll go around and get everybody's hands, I just saw these, or on this side first, then we'll come back around.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly, and then we'll make our way around the clock, please. You know, this is a vote that you would either vote with your heart or vote with your mind. And I do agree with Alderman Frost's comments. He's absolutely correct. But one of the other things that, you know, we have to look at, too, is $100,000, how much time, money,
 Energy is our police department going to spend if these individuals are on the streets? I'm asking myself that. Will it exceed the $100,000? Will it tear into our budget on our first responders? I do agree that this is a precedence that we're setting, and I hope that it's not a habit because we can't afford it. That's number one.
 I do believe in supporting Rosecrans. For years, I was very critical of Rosecrans in having their house, I call it the house on the hill, but they have invested into the community in the northwest quadrants of the city. And like I said, this is a very difficult vote because you either vote with your heart or you vote with your mind. Thank you. Alderman, who is that? Alderman Newberg? Thank you. I understand Alderman Frost with his
 dilemma. I do not feel we are supporting Rose Pans. I believe we are supporting a triage center for Winnebago County that is located in Rockford, Illinois. It's the only triage center. When people leave there, when they go there, then they can go out to the other facilities, but we have got to with the amount of our mental health problems in the Winnebago County.
 and Boone County and Stevenson, they all bring their emergency people to the triage center. And in this day and age, we've got to do this stopgap so that this is available to our law enforcement officers and the fire department and individuals, a place for immediate care of a mental health problem, not of a criminal problem.
 We cannot keep putting these people in Winnebago County Jail. The other thing I wanted to say is, Winnebago County is proposed, or has voted to give $100,000. We as a city are being asked to give $100,000.
 I want to know what Boone County is doing, what Belvedere is doing. I do not see Loves Park, Rockton, South Beloit, any of the other municipalities. I'm not asking them to match what we're putting up, but come forward with some money for this facility. And I'm supporting this $100,000 completely. Thank you. Who's next? Alderman Durkan. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I do agree with a lot of Alderman Frost's points. I'll be in favor of this, but I'm in favor of it because of our, one of the roles of governance is to take care of people who can't take care of themselves, and we certainly do have a problem. These folks are
 We've criminalized mental illness, which is wrong. And Windvale County Jail is not the place for these folks. And certainly police officers are not psychiatrists, they're not counselors. I think they can do as best they can, but to ask them to go beyond that is not right. So I think we have an obligation to do this because the state of Illinois collectively doesn't know what it's doing.
 mentally ill people don't have a PAC. They don't have a voting voice. They don't have an organization that lobbies. And so because of that, they're woefully ignored by governments all over. And that's shameful. And it shouldn't happen in our community. I don't know how we came to this. I certainly don't like someone in the community saying, I'll put a $50,000 if you do it too. I think that's
 poor leadership and that's not the right way to approach the council when we're working to solve something. I'm not sure of the details of where this money will go. I'm not sure of what the exact need that Rosecrans has. But I do know that I have some cynical view here because Rosecrans reportedly is a $70 million organization with 45 facilities across three states.
 So I don't know what belt tightening they've done. I think if they're going to ask the taxpayers money, money from the taxpayers, they're obligated to tell us what they're contributing, where their bottom line is. I don't know what their profit margin is to operate. They may be, they may be
 They may be really tight, but we have three healthcare organizations that do see indigent people in Rockford. They do take care of them and they do take care of them at a loss. I work at one of them and the company I work for at Swedish American takes care of people. Nobody's turned away because they can't pay. We take public aid. In some respects, I'm sort of cynical, is this threatening to cut the football team
 So I don't know exactly what's going on with the ask, but I think Rosecrans needs to come forward with some kind of accountability, where is this funding going, what it costs to run this center, and again, what their long-term plans are. I do know, though, as a physician, when I have a public aid patient, it's very difficult to get a patient into Rosecrans. So I view
 This request with a little bit of cynicism, but I agree with the moral obligation that these folks need our help. No one else will help them, and I think that's an important role that governance has. So I'll be in support of this. Thank you. All of them get you some.
 Thank you, Your Honor. A few things I'd like to point out as we're discussing this. I'm going to be in favor. I really appreciate the efforts of yourself in making sure that we're changing the funding source for this very valuable service. Though I do want to say there's a few things about this that concern me as well. One, my yes vote is yes for $100,000 right now at one time. This will not be
 any type of continuing funding source that I'm going to support for this. The second comes from the financial end. $100,000 from the city of Rockford, which we can well afford. There is plenty of money in our general fund. $100,000 is less than what it costs for us to go out and run some plow machines. I think the services provided by Rosecrans are far more valuable than one street plowing.
 However, I do get frustrated by the response of our so-called partners in the region. Starting out with the original ask. The original ask, I'll do $50,000 if you do $100,000. Our city budget, our general fund is roughly $150 million. Per Mercy Health's financial statement that is posted on their website,
 their net operating revenue for the six months ending June 30, 2016 is $2.2 billion. They're asking us to put in twice what they are. Okay, thank you. So that's the city of Rockford being asked to put in city dollars. So our constituents
 have their representatives here deciding, should we put this in? Our constituents also have their representatives on the county deciding whether they should spend their county tax dollars on this. And I encourage the county to go chew stuff on this as well. I also read a very good piece in the Register Star that discussed some comments made by the mayor of Wells Fargo. Our budget is locked for the year. I cannot come up with $25,000.
 I promise you, less than it costs to plow the streets in the city of Loves Park. I'll also point out that Loves Park sits on the airport authority for it. And when this group got together in the name of regionalism, in the name of advancing our area, and voted $5 million for the MRO, that member of the board just said, What?
 Two data points. And there are many other of our regional partners that are like that. I'm beginning to think we do not have regional partners, we have regional freeloaders. When it's time to sit on a board, when it's time to sit down and start talking and hey, let me give ideas as to how we can do better, we've got all sorts of people sitting down at the table with us. But when it comes time to actually do something, actually open up that checkbook, actually make the tough financial decisions,
 They're nowhere to be found. They make excuses. That's all this is. This is fiscal cowardice. Step up. This is being supported by our region. Our tax dollars are going in, at least by my vote. I recommend that we vote for this. Love's Park, stand up. Belvedere, stand up. Winnebago County, stand up. Because at 3 o'clock in the morning, you may need to drop someone off at this area. OK, this service is available to the region.
 And, oh by the way, when you're putting forward some money, you shouldn't be asking, well, you put in twice what I'm going to put in, especially when your organization makes ten times more at least a year than we do. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNamara. I do not know if there's much left to be said after all that. What I will say is I'm firmly supportive of the $100,000. Thank you.
 It's not only a public safety issue, but to me it's a public health emergency. Others have stated it's an emergency
 I've also heard tonight and elsewhere that this is giving out $100,000. I don't think of it as giving out $100,000. I think of it as investing in $100,000. The amount of people that they serve and the amount of time that we save our police officers. If you take a look at 80% of the folks that they serve at the triage center come from the city of Rockford.
 If the numbers are accurate that we spend about two hours in an emergency room as opposed to five minutes at the triage center, our officers spend that amount of time, we're saving well over 1,700 hours of our police officers' time. It's been mentioned before that our officers aren't equipped and nor should we ask them to be equipped for dealing with mental health crises.
 So I think of it as an investment. The last thing is look at the success. I mean, we haven't talked much about does a program actually work. The program does work. There's 70% of the clients that they see at the triage center are stabilized at the triage center, discharged to their homes, and also connected with other services throughout the community. So it's not continually repeat folks. Some are, I assume, but the work that they do is good work.
 It's our choice and I think it should be a priority. As Alderman Durkee said, we're here to help those who cannot take care of themselves. I do agree with many of the things that Alderman Frost said. I wish we weren't in this circumstance. I wish the state would follow through on their promises, but they haven't followed through on a number of their promises since I've been on council. So I think we need to act locally to help solve some of our local issues.
 Other comments? Alderman Temps, Kelly, you can set your hand. Your Honor, with the consent of the council and yourself, the executive director is here to address any questions or concerns that anyone may have. Let's first take comments from the council, and we'll see if we have open questions for Mr. Eaton. Alderman McNeely, you had your hand up.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I certainly appreciate all of the comments, but especially Alderman Durkee and Alderman Dutchess. I think that as a part of this, I would certainly like to amend it and say that we would like to see where all these dollars are going and to review their income statement for the last six or nine months so that we...
 As a community now that these dollars we know that there's a need there but we I think we should be able to see how great of a need and how much recovery with the money that we are. Providing so is that a motion that is a motion there second and could you specific. Specify your motion again you would like to see.
 Your motion would be to amend the $100,000 commitment from the city to require a financial, some sort of financial documentation of how the funds were used? How the funds will be used and also their income statement for the last nine months of this year. And that's your understanding all of a note? Is that your second? I would take this over. I know it did come out in the paper as I do recall.
 So there's been a motion. Is there a second? There's a motion and second on Alderman McNeely's statement. Any additional comments on the current motion, the motion to amend to require the financial documentation as stated in the record? Any discussion on that amendment? Alderman Newberg. Question, please. Are we asking for documentation of how they are going to spend money?
 from this point on or are we asking them to repeat what has already been made public knowledge? I believe she asked for two things. One, in the motion and use of these specific funds for the triage center but also their income statement I believe was your? Nine months. And so there was a motion and a second. Let's take a vote on that amendment first. Clerk please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getses. Aye. Vanakkamara. Aye.
 Frost Aye Thompson Kelly No Odo Newberg No Beach No Ellier Beck McMilley Aye Chiarelli 7 ayes 5 noes So the motion carries so the amended item is up for further discussion
 I just want to make some final comments if I can. There were some comments, a number of them that are in the same general area, but just as a point of information to the suggestion about the relationship between this and our city operations, I can tell you very directly that both police, fire, as well as human services are directly involved with the interaction of the triage center and our very notable work in the continuum of care related to homelessness.
 That work simply could not be nearly as effective if it weren't for the availability of the Triage Center to deal with individuals in crisis in the field. Our ability to house folks have been very dependent on our work with Rose Grants and many other partners within the community, but they specifically provide a level of service that just doesn't exist.
 outside the hospital setting. I do want to make just a final note as well about that 1115 waiver. At least from my standpoint, an investment in this process will be justified, but we'll also continue those conversations. If you happen to be at IML last Friday, when was it? Yeah, it was last Friday? We could go Friday.
 We give a presentation along with some folks from the University of Illinois College of Medicine, Chief Berkson, Mr. Davis, Chief O'Shea, who was there, Doug Pan was there on his behalf,
 But we talked about essentially this new emerging world of partnering in many areas with mental health providers, behavioral health providers. If you'd like more information on that, Chief Bergeson is nationally really one of the few fire chiefs that's leading directly in this and has helped to lead these discussions with the Medicaid managed care providers. It's very complex, but there's huge opportunities and I just want to applaud all of our staff
 as well as our work with Rosecrans and other providers to put us in a position to really leverage this emerging opportunity. I don't believe there's any other discussion. Hearing none, please call the roll. This is on the amended item. All of them, one through seven, as amended, or just seven? We're going to take them all. Mr. Hayes, just before we call the vote, what is the required number that we need to pass this item?
 Because of the nature of this appropriation, the municipal code requires the vote of two-thirds of the corporate authorities. There are 13 members of the corporate authorities present here tonight. That includes the mayor and the 12 aldermen present. Thank you, Harman. So we need how many for it? Ten. Thank you. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getsis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Ellier. Young.
 Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, 11 ayes, 1 no. The matter passes. Alderman Buck. I didn't know if Alderman Frost was voting no on all seven items or just any particular item. Alderman Frost. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you for the clarification. They all pass. Thank you. Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you. I have a resolution to approve Alderman Frost replacing Alderman McNeely as a member of the Housing Committee. That's item number one. Item number two is a resolution to approve the selection of Alderman Hervey as a vice chairperson of the Housing Committee. I place these up for vote. Thank you. I don't believe we need a suspension since it's motions and resolutions. Alderman 9, Roman numeral 9D.
 It was one of two up for passage is their discussion all the member and the resolution to approve Alderman frost replacing alderman McNeely as a member of the housing committee What were the worthy council members informed that there was an opening on that committee? I?
 I'll come back to Mary. Do you want to take that? Yeah. I don't believe so, to be honest, Alderman Newberg. It came up very at the last minute, right just prior to the last committee meeting. Alderman McNeely actually was kind of odd. She was sworn in, and then something came up that would lead her not to be able to attend. Alderman Frost had also shown interest to be on the committee, was on it last period. And Alderman McNeely asked if she could step down.
 And so that's when it happened. But to answer your question directly, no. Other discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Geerky. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Elliott. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. 12 ayes. Matters passed. Thank you.
 New business. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. Roman numeral 10A, number one. I'd like to suspend rule signs. I've got a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 10A1. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. No. How many no's were there? Can I just raise your hand? So we need 10 for suspension. We don't have 10, so the matter will lay over. Sure. We'll call the roll on that. That's on the motion to suspend. Clerk, please call the roll. Okay.
 Durkee Aye Getschis Aye McNamara Aye Frost Aye Thomson-Kelley Odo Newberg Beach Aye Bec McNeely Chiarelli 9 ayes, 3 noes Motion fails, we needed 10 votes Alderman Chiarelli, so the matter will just lay over Thank you your honor, Roman numeral 10 B1 through 10 I move to suspend the rules your honor
 It's been a motion, seconded to suspend the rules. Enrollment Rule 10b, items 1 through 10. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Saved, the rule will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those 10 items up for passage. Matters are up for passage as they are discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. No, I'm being warned. Getches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. No, I'm being warned. Thompson-Kelley. Otto. Newberg. Beach. Elliott.
 that I think nearly I cheerily I I am number one nine ice cream knows items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 ice matters past thank you on back think your honor under Romero 10 see one and two I asked for suspension rules
 There's been a motion, seconded by the second, to suspend the rules in Roman and Rule 10C, Items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. This is up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Paul and Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd just like to have clarification again on what charges come back to us for the cost of our officers. Does that include retirement? Does it include whatever pay grade they are at?
 whether the lieutenant sergeants or whatever 100 mr hayes so for the contract that we've presented tonight you'll note that there's a reduction officers part of that is to make certain that we're recouping the full cost for the actual officers we have estimated the full costs at just slightly under a million dollars per year that's with an estimated allocation of certain overtime events
 Overtime beyond the estimated costs, though, the district recognizes as their responsibility because they have control of the overtime events. So it's our view that we will recover for the 10 officers, which is 9.
 patrol officers and one sergeant for the school liaison using that will get full recovery. This is a modest reduction from previous years and it will focus on going forward trying to make certain that there's adequate security. The district is undertaking more and more
 in district as relates to security issues that traditionally have been related to the work passed on to our officers. But we believe that this is an appropriate cost recovery for the city and will be a full cost recovery. Thank you. I have a follow-up, sir. Sure. Are these the same officers that go to the schools week after week, or are they rotated? If they are the same officers, how do they keep updated on their training? Chief O'Shea, do you want to take that question? It's about the school resource officers.
 The officers can stay in there up to five years, and they do stay in there. We don't pull them out, and they're required to stay up on all training, either on the computer or yearly all of our in-service training. And they have a sergeant that's over them. They have a roll call all the time. They are not, like, just lost to the school. They are very interactive with us. They provide intel and information to the detective division regularly. So they're there, but they're part of us, but they're also there.
 Thank you. Any further discussion on the items? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Matters passed. Thank you. We'll start the business before the council.
 Alderman Durkheim. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one request from Your Honor. Is there, can we please convene a special meeting with the City Council next week to take up the Planning and Development Committee report under Roman numeron, under new business 10A1.
 so the request is for special city council meeting to be noticed stop I think we need 3 formally Alderman is there other elements for the element catches on the word so we will notice up special meetings will occur next week and will time and judge with the committees they also gives a chance to do chief persons fire department the proclamation for prevention
 Thank you. Any further discussion? I'm getting a motion second to adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it.