Testing? Testing? That's all. So you still have to turn this on. Okay. There. Any questions? Who? There's been a motion. Is there a second? Motion, second. Is there any discussion on the journal? Any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you.
 No public hearing scheduled for this evening. We do have several speakers sign up for public participation. I'd remind our speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Roland Poska. You can count my walk up on my three minutes. This speech is specifically designed for the public speaker, Prophet Yusef.
 The rest of you can continue to ignore my speeches as usual. I am Fishy Whale Roland Posca. I used to be the stupidest animal on the planet. I am now old and senile. And every 4 p.m., I wonder if any of this is worth doing. Then I wake up in the morning, and I start doing it all over again.
 We have to get every high school graduate an interest-free $100,000 loan, repayable at death, so that they can start a business and create a job. That's for you, Prophet. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. This is for you, Prophet.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of James, the second chapter, the 17th verse, it says, Faith without works is dead. What I want to speak about tonight, Oregon shooting and Chicago shooting is a sign that American culture is sick. He asked them their religion. If they said they were Christian, he killed them right there in that classroom in Oregon. And since the news trickles out slowly about what was done and how some of us have been asking ourselves,
 Would I deny my faith to stay alive? What I answered, he said, good, because you're a Christian, you're going to see God in just about one second. And then he shot and killed them. That comment comes from Stacy Bolden, father of Anastasia Bolden, a student at UConn Community College. One of those wounded by Chris Hopper, Mercer, Madman, Anti-Christian, Bigot, and Killer.
 Autumn Vaccar told NBC News what her brother J.J. witnessed. The shooter he told her told people to stand up before asking if they were Christians or some other religion. She said her brother told her that anyone who said yes was shot in the head. If they didn't answer, they were shot in the leg. Most news outlets focus on what has become depressing, familiar, becoming lonely, a nerd, unable to adjust, narcissistic, nihilistic.
 seeking glory in innocent blood, perhaps a psychosis unknown as yet. And a mother described as protective in early accounts as other mothers have been described in other mass shoots. Those parents may not understand the capability of their offspring, even if the child dabbles gun after gun. We've heard such stories before from Sandy Hook to Colorado of parents either blind or indifferent or unable by law to do anything about the madness in their children. A madman kills nine people.
 man people in Oregon and the world seems to stop and gun control is demand. But in Chicago, the killings are marginalized as barbarians, more people down with thousands shot in a city with strict gun laws and the politicians do little if anything. There's no national conversation from Chicago. The national political styles stay away. Even the president isn't engaged. They're silenced because of all the talk of gun control and rights and politics. The one thing I don't hear
 about, enough about is that American culture is sick and they need a solution to stop this mass. And I got the solution. This is mine. Number one, open back up mental hospitals in the United States so people can get mental treatment. Two, open up drug and alcohol facilities
 Put people to work so they won't be idle because idle mind is the devil's workshop. Four, give people an apartment to live in. This will help eliminate homeless. Five, give people jobs who have fellas. Give them a second chance like God gave us with grace and mercy. Six, reinstate the draft. They like to shoot, put them in the Army and Marine Corps like they did me and lots of veterans they sent to Vietnam. I wanted to tell Mr. George Davis this, but he's not here. I've been wanting to tell him this for a long time.
 And I'm going to get it off my chest. I don't like you. I love you. You can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me. Thank you. Is the prophet still here? It's Mr. Kegnoni's birthday today. Our department has to make sure. He was feeling a little left out. We've got to make sure he's got the love, too. So there we go. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Thank you.
 I actually had no intention of speaking tonight until I heard that the cigarette store two blocks down on Broadway 9th was robbed by two thugs with a gun. Broad daylight, 10.30 a.m., right across the street from where my alderman, Karen Ellier, lives. In fact, she was getting into her car when they ran right past her.
 Where are the police on Broadway? Oh sure, they show up after a crime has been committed or a car accident. Other than that, there are no foot patrols. Ask any business owner, as I have, to the last time they saw a police foot patrol, and they will tell you spring. What about bike hops? One store owner said they actually saw bike hops over the summer, but it was downtown.
 The city's idea of crime prevention on Broadway is to park an empty squad car on Broadway in Parmalee for four days. All it did was move the prostitutes down one block in either direction, and for the first day it slowed traffic down to 35 miles an hour. What Broadway needs isn't empty squad cars. We need boots on the ground.
 We need at least two cameras. We should not have to wait another year before the police move into the Turner Building to get action on Broadway. What is the agenda for combating crime on Broadway and the surrounding red zone area?
 We knew what the agenda was when the city put up a camera at Broadway and 10th Street when the clinic was open. That agenda was quite obvious. What is the agenda for combating crime on Broadway? Because what you are doing is clearly not working. Thanks to the graffiti guy for the quick cover-up on Broadway. It is greatly appreciated.
 Proclamation for Oak Awareness Month is coming up tonight. We have many parks in Rockford with oak trees, but where are the new oak trees? All we see are mature oaks. What will take their place when they die? Please don't say Autumn Blaze, Mabel. Let's replant with the mighty, majestic oak. Now let's talk about two car lots on Broadway that I can see from my window.
 They both have car haulers or trailers on their properties. One car lot was told to move their car hauler into their building. They did.
 This was the second time this year that they had an illegal piece of equipment on their property. The other car lot was to be given a letter telling them they were in violation of an illegal trailer on their property. Both of these were turned in over three months ago with no action by the city. Only in the last two weeks did the one car lot move their equipment into their building. As I write this speech, the other trailer still sits.
 It has only moved once in the last three months, and that was five days ago. Perhaps if they were told they would be fined $750 a day three months ago, it would have been moved by now. I am not going anywhere. I am the voice of Broadway. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. My take? All right.
 Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the women and all the men of Rockford, Illinois, and our
 Matthew, verse 6, 24 through 25 states, No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. Do not judge, or you too will be judged. For in the same way you judge others, you will be judged. And with the measure of your use, it will be measured to you. I'm reading this book named The Ego Logical of Democracy.
 They talk about ways that address the problems that affect our lives, community, and the nation. There's going to be a discussion at each library branch on Thursday, October 15th, from 6.30 p.m. to 7.45 p.m. Chase Branson, what is the difference between a volunteer and a person that works for the system?
 There are studies show where you depend on grants from government agencies and like grant makers so they set their agenda to master the agenda of their fund raisers rather than the priority of the community they serve. So what and who are volunteers and can the power to be worked without the citizens?
 No, they cannot. We must all work together in order to transform Rockford. I want to talk about the upcoming events this week and next week that are very important to our community and the city as a whole. And then next week I will finish talking about the difference between volunteers and the person that works for the system.
 Renewal Turning Park Program, Mission Statement, and RHA Neighborhood Network, we are a catalyst for changes within the City of Rockland seeking excellence through mobilizing the entire community to address common obstacles and build a positive future.
 in and around RHA housing and surrounding communities. This year we will be going head up with education training jobs, black on black crime and domestic violence. Tonight from 6 to 7 p.m. will be a meeting at 404 North Avon Street for the first time starting
 a Zion West Neighborhood Association. Our purpose will be to build relationships, address concerns, create solutions. Wednesday from noon to 5 p.m., there will be a meeting at the Regional Design Center at 315 North Main Street, and they will be talking about RHA Affordable Housing Summit featuring.
 housing market condition, construction activity, local trends updating on housing, neighborhood planning, and open housing. Thursday, this coming Thursday, we'll be having a meeting at the Salvation Army on Kilmer Street, right across from Fairground. We're not just talking about bringing back programs for the youth and adults at Fairground and Fairground housing in the Ellis Heights area, but the YMCA, RHA, PIEGIS, Youth Service Network,
 the school system, the churches and many other organizations will be starting up programs this month. By the way, I am very excited about going on a trip. This will be the first time for me going to Washington, D.C. for the 20th annual Millionaire March that will be this Saturday
 from 10 to 10. We'll be leaving Brookwood Washington Center Thursday night at 8 p.m. Plus, I will be wearing my RHA and my Transform Rocker t-shirt on. We'll be coming back Sunday on Pastor Melvin Hightower's 11th anniversary at Mount Zion Church. That will be this Sunday. Thank you.
 I ran out of time. You did. All right. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. But anyway, I want to thank the sponsors that sponsored me to go, and this is going to be a hysterical day for me to go to Washington, D.C. I have never been. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications. All in Durkin.
 One item is the planning and development. The Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, also known as RACVB, will present their quarterly report for April through June 2015 for planning and development. Thank you for the positions and communications, Alderman McNally. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Zion Church on Avon, and I have a letter here to go forward. I clawed on this to Public Works.
 First, they're having their first meeting October 5th today, but they're also having their first cleanup on October 31st from 8 to 3 at Peach Court. And they have requested that we assist them with a garbage bin and also asking ComEd to service the lighting on Peach Court. So I submit that, Ms. Mayor.
 I also have this Thursday, October the 8th, I will be holding a meeting regarding Rockville Memorial Hospital here at City Hall. And on Wednesday, I'm sure, Augment Herbie's going to announce that she's having a meeting on the 14th. And then on Saturday, October the 24th, we're having a meeting
 from 10 to 6 at the library downtown at 215 North Wyman. If anyone has any questions, they can call Alderman Hervey or myself. And lastly, you know, this is Alderman Hervey's, but I wanted to make sure we point out for Booker Washington Center, they're having their fundraiser, and I'll let Alderman Hervey finish that. Thank you. Thank you for the petitions and communications, Alderman Shirella. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have the Traffic Commission agenda for October 21st, referring that to the Traffic Commission. I have a referral from a memorandum from Kelly Notes, Assistant Operations Manager, regarding the 5-4 10th Anniversary Party, scheduled for Sunday, October 18th. And I have a referral memorandum from Andrew Perry, the planner, regarding regional building federal adoption. Those two items being referred to the Codes and Regulations Committee. Thank you, Madam Speaker. Thank you.
 for the petitions and communications. Proclamations. We have three proclamations this evening. I'd start with our first proclamation inviting Judge Rosemary Collins and others that may be here on behalf of Domestic Violence Awareness Month to please come forward. Thank you.
 Whereas domestic violence crosses all socioeconomic lines including but not limited to race, ethnicity, gender, age, education, employment and marital status. Whereas in the state of Illinois domestic violence related crime is reported 342 times per day. And the Rockford Police Department responded to over 3800 calls for service for domestic violence in 2014.
 Whereas last year over 1,600 child and adult victims of domestic violence sought emergency shelter, legal advocacy and hotline services from the circuit court's local domestic violence program. And likewise over 2,800 emergency orders of protection were requested in Winnabeau County.
 And whereas the City of Rockford will help raise awareness and shine a light on this issue by lighting City Hall and the Morgan Street Bridge purple, the designated color of Domestic Violence Awareness Month, for the first two weeks of October. And whereas throughout the month of October, the Family Violence Coordinating Council and other prevention groups will be hosting several events to bring awareness of domestic violence and thus give hope to all victims of abuse struggling with this issue.
 Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrisey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 2015 to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month. And we encourage our citizens to rally support for domestic violence victims and to volunteer with organizations pledging to end this crime that plagues not only our fair city, but society at large. Judge.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank all of you. I do want to thank you all very much for your commitment to end this plague upon our community. You know, nationwide we know that over 5.5 million children are exposed to domestic violence in their homes, and we know what that means because we know that boys who are exposed to domestic violence in their homes are twice as likely to be domestic violence offenders themselves as they grow up.
 Our community, our families, our children deserve a safe, healthy place to live. And I know that all of you agree with that and work to making that a reality for the people who live here.
 In your packets, you do have information about some services that we have available in our community. We give that to you so you can pass it on to your constituents. We do have a lot of things that are going on in our area that will help victims of domestic violence. Recently, the federal government gave us almost $950,000.
 to continue our work on domestic violence and to continue to make our area one of the leading areas in combating this terrible problem. So thank you for all you do to help this. Spread the word to your constituents that we do have services available. We do take this crime seriously, and we're here to help our families be healthy.
 Thank you for all you do, Your Honor, and for your continued and dedicated partnership to support the entire network of organizations that are combating domestic violence. Next, I'd invite our fire chief and any other members of the fire department that are here to support the proclamation for Fire Prevention Week. Whereas the city of Rockford is committed to ensuring the safety and security of all those living and visiting our community.
 Whereas fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally. And homes are the locations where people are at greatest risk from fire. And whereas fires killed 2,755 people in the U.S. in 2013 according to the National Fire Protection Association. And fire departments in the U.S. responded to over 369,000 home fires.
 And whereas working smoke alarms cut the risk of dying in a home fire in half, and whereas three out of five home fire deaths result from fires on properties without working smoke alarms, whereas the Rockford Fire Department is dedicated to reducing the occurrence of home fires and home fire injuries through prevention and protection in the form of education,
 And whereas the 2015 Fire Prevention Week theme is Hear the Beep Where You Sleep, Every Bedroom Needs a Working Smoke Alarm, it effectively serves to remind us that we need working smoke alarms to give us the time to get out of a house fire safely.
 Now therefore I Lawrence Jay Morrissey as mayor of the city of Rockford who hereby proclaim October 5th through the 11th 2015 to be prevention fire prevention week. And we urge our citizens to support the many public safety activities and efforts of the Rockford Fire Department during fire prevention week. Chief Knott wants to say a little bit more. Hello I'm Tim Morris the fire prevention coordinator for the Rockford Fire Department. First Mayor thank you very much for allowing us to be here tonight for the proclamation council as well.
 We want to remind everybody that we're here tonight because at this time in 1871, we had the Great Chicago Fire, which brought light the fire prevention efforts that we have throughout most of the country. We want to remind people that you need to have a smoke alarm where you sleep, on every floor that you have in your home, including your basement. Also, a working curb will knock that alarm. Practicing your exit pass and annoying two ways out
 And also, paying attention this time of year when we turn our heaters on, make sure they're serviced properly. And if you do utilize a space heater, please give it a room, give it a space. Again, the detector, the slogan this year is, hear the beep where you sleep.
 So installing extra smoke detectors can never hurt you. So please also, when you go home tonight, please double-check your smoke detectors. Double-check your carbon monoxide detector. Make sure you understand and your children understand how to get out of their home safely, and on two ways out. And also remember that if you have a neighbor or someone down the street that maybe can't do it for themselves, go down there and make sure that they have the same safety in their home. Thank you. Thank you.
 Finally, we have a proclamation regarding Oaktober. It's Oak Awareness Month and we have several members of the community that may be here, including Kim Wheeler-Johnson, Director of Marketing and Membership for the Natural Land Institute and others that may be joining her to accept the proclamation. I invite them all to please come forward. Whereas the state of Illinois' tree is the white oak, and whereas oak ecosystems have been a significant part of our Illinois landscape for more than 5,000 years and are now in a state of decline.
 Whereas Illinois forests, woodlands, and savannas have been greatly reduced statewide, and the oak ecosystems are declining in health due to the decline of oak dominance. Whereas these declines are due to a lack of public awareness,
 invasive species, poor management practices, and reduced resources. Whereas the Illinois Wildlife Action Plan identifies the quality of wooded habitats in Illinois as a major concern and recognizes the need to understand and manage oak decline in our state.
 Whereas Oak Awareness Month is an opportunity for government to join forces with business, industry, conservation groups, recreational groups, community organizations, and citizens to take action to support our native oak ecosystems.
 Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2015 to be Oaktober, Oak Awareness Month, and we encourage our citizens to promote awareness and to improve the health and services to our oak ecosystems and natural resources overall.
 Thank you, Mayor and Alderman and everyone. Natural Land Institute is a land conservation organization that was founded in 1958 by George Fell, who had a vision to protect our natural areas throughout our region. And with that, over the last 57 years, Natural Land Institute has protected more than 16,000 acres of natural land, which includes oak, hickory, ecosystems, and forests, and so forth.
 And oak trees contribute, well first of all, let me introduce Ruth Little here. She's one of our trustees on the board. Thank you for being here with me, Ruth, tonight.
 Oak trees contribute to the biological diversity of our forests, providing needed shelter and food for wildlife. White oak trees, as Mayor Morrissey said, is the state tree of Illinois. It provides shade with their large canopy, which helps cool us in hot weather. They provide a sense of awe and wonder and contribute to our sense of place. And they help clean air and water.
 Natural Land Institute is pleased to participate in the effort to create awareness about the oak ecosystem and oak trees and the importance of oak trees by hosting a free public walk of our private Burr Oak Valley Preserve on Saturday, October 17th at 1.30 p.m. Before the meeting I passed out the flyers for our October hike.
 to all the aldermen. I have extra flyers on the counter back there and invite you to pick up one before you leave tonight. It's a free public tour of our preserve and we're excited to be able to host this and show the restoration efforts we have made for this preserve in Roscoe on Elevator Road. And I'm very grateful for the mayor proclaiming October as Oka,
 October Oak Awareness Month and hope you all have a wonderful oak tree that you can relate to and connect to for the future. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hayes just pointed out that I had skipped over previously a hearing that was scheduled for this evening so we'll go back to public hearings item 6 on our agenda
 And I would ask Alderman Beck, if you'd like to do it, you can certainly do it from your chair, to lead that hearing. Thank you, Your Honor. I hereby call a public hearing to order. Pursuant to the Bond Issue Notification Act of the State of Illinois, a public hearing must be conducted by the City Council concerning the City Council's intent to sell bonds. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on September 25, 2015. Thank you.
 That notice informed citizens of Rockford that the purpose of the hearing was to receive public comments on the proposal to sell bonds of the city in the amount not to exceed $6,500,000 for general obligation bonds, sales tax alternative revenue source, for the purpose of defraying the costs
 of undertaking repairs to the Concourse parking deck within the city and to pay bond discount, bond interest, bond reserve account funding, legal, financing, and administrative expense. Are there any questions or comments from the public regarding the city's proposal to sell bonds? If so, please kindly step forward to the microphone and give us your name, address, and make your statement. Hearing none, this hearing is now adjourned. Thank you all, I'm back.
 So we will go back to our regular agenda. Committee reports from number six, Albert Durkee. Thank you, I only have one item. The committee recommends approval of the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Alpine Bank and Company for the construction of a new full service retail bank, which is approximately 2,600 square feet near the southeast corner of North Main and Auburn Street, known as 1401 North Main Street, Rockford, Illinois. First, I'd like to suspend rules.
 There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 6A10. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Seven. Thank you, Your Honor, that I could place this up for passage. That is up for passage. It's their discussion. All in. Back to you.
 thank you for allowing me to speak I just wanted to urge my colleagues to support this this agreement the neighborhood surrounding this area as I've mentioned a number of times in council had a survey a few years ago now and one of the top things on the list was to have a financial institution in the neighborhood and this certainly fills that void for many of the neighbors and just in my
 dealings with Alpine Bank, I think they'll be much more than a financial institution for that neighborhood and really a partner and a neighbor to it. So I would urge and ask for your support of this agreement. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Aye.
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elie? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Shirely? Aye. Alderman Connell is back if you could call her vote. Thank you. So that's 12, Your Honor. Thank you. The matter passes. Alderman Shirely? Thank you, Your Honor. New Committee Reports.
 B1, the committee recommends approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals report approving a special use permit for a not-for-profit Veterans Drop-In Center office at 1539 South 4th Street. Number 2, the committee recommends approval of variation to reduce the required 56 parking spaces to 40 parking spaces for a medical clinic at 1475 South Perryville Road. Number 3, the committee recommends approval
 variation to reduce the front yard setback for 33 to 24 feet for a garage addition at
 court number four the committee recommends approval of a variation from 13 feet one inch by 10 feet driveway extension at 26 22 bluffside drive number five the committee recommends approval of a special use permit for our retail automobile sales at 27 34 11th street
 6. The committee recommends approval of the request for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a tavern and a restaurant and a video gaming facility at 2204 and 2212 North Main Street and 11XX Brown Avenue. 7. The committee recommends approval of the request for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and request for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction
 at 211 Elm Street. Number 8, the committee recommends the adoption of amendment to the City of Rockford Zoning Ordinance Section 10-007-C Conflict with Private Agreements and Covenants to Expand Negative Use Restrictions to Include Financial Institution and Medical Facilities.
 number nine ten eleven and twelve traffic related items number thirteen is the final black Israel of God's church subdivision of the northwest corner of Clifton Avenue and Hopkins Court your honor I move to suspend rule eleven second to motion the second spend the rules all those in favor please say aye aye opposed no I seven most pieces suspended so under Roman numeral six the items one two three four five six
 7 8 9 10 11 12 and 13 are all for passage. That's our passage is their discussion.
 Yes, for item number four, I recommend us to approve this. Mr. Hoppe actually ended up with the contractor apologizing for not retaining the permit like they were supposed to. His property looks fabulous. You can't even tell that it doesn't belong there. All the neighbors are for it, too, so I recommend us to approve it.
 thank you for the discussion and it's all been heard thank you with regard to that I'm going to support it because the alderman has reviewed it but one of the biggest difficulties I have in my ward with driveways is that we have so many in the old parts of town that were never paid
 and they've got gravel and then people see the gravel so they come in and put new gravel where they want to create new parking spaces some people will say my yard my driveway is grandfathered I'm saying well grandfathered under what one of the things that I would ask for from staff is a explanation of what the requirements are for parking pavements
 and parking pads, how to determine whether one is grandfather and how we know to direct constituents when they want to do something different with their driveway. What is allowed under a contractor and what has to come to City Council or City Hall for a special permit
 for those kinds of things because I feel for people because I think it's horribly confusing when and where even with repaving parking lots when do you have to have the permit restriping and when can you just do that as part of routine maintenance so I would ask if staff could place that somewhere on their docket for development.
 Mr. Cagnone I don't know if you have offhand any information or ideas but I know as we go through the we'll be picking up again the conversation about our website I think next week at our committee meetings but any overall thoughts on those items Sure your honor a number of questions in there Oliver and Herbie is correct that there are
 Some grandfather rights for existing parking lots or driveways, but predominantly our ordinance requires all driveways or parking lots to be improved with black or concrete. And our ordinance is worded in such a way that any time you go to improve the property, that improvement needs to conform with the ordinance and, in essence, be improved with
 or concrete. As it relates to the requirements of a permit, anytime you're doing a construction or reconstruction of a parking lot or driveway, it would require a permit. You are allowed to do maintenance activities such as sealing driveways and parking lots as well as striping the parking spaces without the requirements of a permit.
 Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I was at the zoning meeting and it was brought up by city staff and it's being brought back to codes and regs to update the ordinance that's in the city. That big book you gave us.
 are to update that so that will be coming in the next couple months to update it I said I would probably done before spring come because right now people are not really thinking about the driveways but spring so we it has been brought to the attention of the city staff thank you for the discussion of any items that are for passage or none clerk please call the roll jerky yeah back in there fast I heard the call
 Thompson Kelly Newberg Beach Elia McNeely Shirely So that is 13 for item 1 It is 10 for item 2 13 for I'm sorry 12 for item 3 12 for item 4 13 eyes for item 5 12 for item 6 and all the rest are 13 eyes
 all the beach if I can't make a call to I'm number six no one ever said thank you doesn't change the outcome I always feel good all right thank you thank you all for the reports committees all the back thank you around I'm gonna take the first item first by itself and then take the others and separately so I don't want is it report approval of the
 lease agreement between the say rock for human services are operating authority to lease the building commonly known as 653 ranger street. For the purpose of operating that start program I would ask for suspension will not second. If there's been a motion in the second spend the rules. Six see one you just want to take one right now yeah also favor please act. I pose no I said there will be spending an item to.
 legal director has given me an amended language I like to ask him choice spend rules first and then amended or you want to take a vote on the first one and see one I really didn't have a whole lot we just voted for the rules I like the place I want for a package let's let's knock that one out great I was there just I met up for passage is there discussion other all in the game thank you Mr Mayor I would like to know
 exactly where it's expected three ranger street and why are we agreement between the city of rockford and the rocker housing authority I believe that's working he has a word he's this is our normal okay we're not released thank you very much thank you all in that way sorry are we bringing up item two as well right now no no one sorry thank you thank you any further discussion that first item none but please follow
 McNamara thank you frost curvy Thompson Kelly photo new bird beach Elliot McNeely Shirley 13-9 better passes thank you all of that so item number two I'm going to make an amendment the alderman should have a copy of the amendment on their desk
 I'm just going to read it in. Financing personnel having received a request for an amended intergovernmental agreement to Rockford Regional Multimodal Transportation Center on October 5, 2015, begs lead to report recommending that an agreement be made with Rockford Mass Transit District for an amended city total of $200,000 to complete the design work for the Multimodal Transportation Center.
 The original agreement was executed by the City and Council on January 16, 2015. The proposed prime agreement between ROTD, the City and the design consultant for remaining design fee of up to $2,317,726.33 will be funded 80% by funds from federal sources.
 The city will pay the local match up to $200,000 on the first $800,000 of federal funding to complete the parking portion of the project as outlined in the consultant services agreement. Should the state of Illinois resume funding the state portion of the allocation for this design work, the state funding will take the place of the city funding at the earliest possible time that the state of Illinois procurement rules permit such a change to occur.
 The balance of the design will not proceed until the state of Illinois releases the state portion of the grant funding. At any such time state funds are released, the 20 percent match to the federal funding shall begin to be funded by state grant funds. Funding for this project will come from sales tax. And so I would make that amendment, I would move for that amendment. I would need a second. It needs a second before we discuss it. There's been a motion and a second. Motion and second discussion. Alderman Newberg.
 We don't have a copy of that. None of us do. Okay, ma'am, I didn't have a copy of it or something. Okay. I would like a copy of it before I vote on it. So I just asked our clerk if they could make copies of, I believe this is it, if you can get a copy from Huller and back and get copies distributed, and we'll skip over that and come back to it if that's right. Yeah. So we'll move on to 3 and 4. That's fine. Okay, so I do have, I'm going to make a motion to amend.
 3. To amend the committee report to adopt a resolution awarding a sole source contract North Main Street overhead utility relocation to Comcast Cable Communications for a contract amount of $500,598.58 funding source of the CIP general fund. And I move to make that motion. Is there a second? Second. I think there's been a motion and a second. Let me read it in. To adopt a resolution awarding
 sole source contract for North Main Street overhead utility relocation account, Cast Cable Communications of Elmhurst for a contract amount of $500,598.50. Funding source being the CIP General Fund. That is Roman numeral 6C3. That's been moved and seconded. There is a discussion over it for us. Yeah, I was here last week, and I know we had some discussion and debate about this matter.
 I'm just a little puzzled why we have these discussions and debates when the next week someone can come and move to amend a committee report to flip it. And so if that's the will of a particular alderman, then I really just don't have, I'm having a hard time grasping why we spend a great deal of time reading and researching on a committee level to take a vote on the matter. So we could just instead just bypass that system
 and just talk, have the committee have information come into it, and then not take a vote on it. If the vote means nothing, that by the week, someone, especially an employee who wasn't present, can just come back and change the will of the vote to the will of a person.
 or someone else in behavior. So, I mean, I understand that we can do it, that the committee, I've talked to Attorney Hayes, and that it can be done, apparently. But I just wonder, while we all come here to do this and to have these dialogues and discussions in committees, if then the committee can do it.
 The following week if someone doesn't like the vote of a committee, we can just strip that vote by one person, bring it up to the entire council, and change the vote. So, I mean, obviously people know how I feel about this issue, whether it wins or loses.
 I mean, I really don't care. I have an opinion on it, and that's my opinion. But I don't address people for voting a different way. But what I have a hard time doing is coming here and taking my time and really putting time into an issue like this and just seeing this process take place.
 I'll take the Alderman's comment as a question of parliamentary procedure and do my best to try to provide some guidance as far as the chair understands the rules. So we operate each week according to the rules that are identified by and developed by the state of Illinois as well as our own local ordinances. The system that we've developed in which we've been on now for several months, we alternate each week, one week doing committee work, the next week doing audit.
 our full council work last week there was a vote that only involved five members one of which had to abstain one which was absent so there's only actually four voting members I think if I recall correctly on the issue so that was the work of the committee I that vote moved forward to the floor
 any given week when a matter comes to the floor for the full council's consideration it could be amended in many different ways on the floor that's not a new procedure that's very elementary element of Robert's Rules of Order and parliamentary procedure in general so you know the council can change its rules to the extent they're consistent with state law but I would just say from my standpoint
 the promotion is in order and I don't know it is a proper consideration this evening it moved in the second and I'll take other comments for coming back to people who are spoken all over thank you I understand all the new class frustration because I also have the same thing that we we were in committee last week so
 I know Robert's Rules is the way we're going and I understand that, but to me it's just a common courtesy that if there's a committee report that comes to the up to vote at council, I just feel that it's nice if it would have been brought back to committee to change their the amendment should have went back to committee.
 and then be brought to the council because I still have a problem with a committee report that I have voted on one week and then it comes up the next week for vote at council and someone wants to change the committee report. I feel if you're going to change a committee report, it should be done in committee. Thank you. Thank you. Just I'll take the opportunity to express another just
 review of the parliamentary procedure and why it's there. So there's only five members of the committee. What you just described, Alderman Newberg, makes sense in one sense that you want those types of deliberations to happen at the committee level. There could be a lot of discussion and contributions from other members of the committee.
 But the process that we have is designed to prevent a minority of the council, only five members, being able to keep the will of the overall council from moving forward. So you may have five people all voting one way,
 But that's not the majority of the council. So it could have been a unanimous vote, and somebody else could amend it on a council night and reverse it just because that's the overall will of the council. So my decision just in terms of previously is that it is in proper order. I'm just trying to explain a little bit more of the background, all in back and all of it, Herbie. Just to continue along that, I mean,
 The motion that I put forward is simply to somewhat clarify, if we have the votes on the floor to amend it to an affirmative as opposed to a negative, then when we vote on it, it's easier, I think, just to say I'm in favor of it or I'm not. So that's why the motion to amend, we can leave it the way it is.
 And then if you know we can just vote and if the majority of the council wants to do what this action is asking us to do then they can vote that way and the ones who don't can vote no. It doesn't matter what the committee said as the mayor said because that's only a small number of the total council and the total council majority vote is what decides what happens at any city council meeting.
 The recommendation from staff is that if you think that there's a vote to amend it, to have it be what it was originally intended to be, then the council can do that. To me, it just makes it clear what people are voting on. Alderman Hervey. Yeah, I think what the distaste that aldermen have is the feeling sometimes that it really makes no difference what we do because it just comes back like a bad penny sometimes.
 If we indicate that because of financial constraints that we believe there should be a policy decision to change something, it's not as though an alderman is standing up saying I want to ask my fellow alderman to amend this or change this. There's a feeling on the part of I'll just speak for myself. Myself, but sometimes those changes or those recommendations are coming from staff.
 and sometimes it doesn't matter what we say is alderman it still gets done even if we vote no and I think that's causing a huge amount of frustration for people things just keep coming back over and over and over again the comment writer has come up so many times it's ridiculous then it turns up in the newspaper so we have the editorial board which has no credibility berating us
 about something that we choose not to vote. Some of us represent people who are of very low income. So our vote on something that adds money to their monthly bill, not in isolation, it's not just the ComEd writer,
 water rates are going up, telephone rates are going up, gas rates are going up. Everything is going up on people. And when you represent people of very low or fixed income, you have a duty to give those people a voice. And sometimes it seems like even when we have a small victory, it doesn't matter because people get on the phone over the weekends, they change people's
 It's not an open process. We don't know what's going on behind the scenes, but all we know is we walk on here on a Monday morning and something that we thought we voted down is back on the agenda. And that's how I feel about the ComEd rider with these projects. We voted no on that rider at least twice, and now here it is again in a different incarnation. That's what I find frustrating.
 thank you I just uh reiterate that the uh motion is in order. Alderman Oda was next then Alderman Thompson-Kelley. No no um I speak to number two not to add a point. Um I just want clarification on a comment you made. Um depending upon how a committee report comes out of committee uh depending upon that committee report wouldn't that depend on how
 I'm sorry repeat the question the question is that if something comes out of committee and a no vote when it hits full council and you're talking dollars wouldn't it take more than the majority of the audience for passage I would ask Mister Hayes to chime in if I get this wrong but short answer is no you have to when it involves money most votes
 reports please require only a simple majority of as opposed to an ordinance that requires eight votes most committee reports they have to be roll call votes they can't be a voice vote but a simple majority on a roll call even if it involves money is all you need Mr Hayes I get that right that's correct thank you other questions on the motion that's on
 So just to repeat the motion on the floor from Alderman Beck is to amend the committee report to adopt a resolution awarding a sole source contract for North Main Street overhead utility relocation to Comcast Cable of Elmhurst for a contract amount of $500,598.50 with the funding source the CIP General Fund. Is there any additional discussion on that? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Kerkey? Aye. McNamara? Aye.
 Thompson Kelly. Odom. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Peck. Aye. McNeely. Shirely. That is 8 ayes and 5 nays. The matter passes. Thank you. I would move to amend the Committee Report to adopt a resolution awarding a sole source contract North Main Street Corridor Construction Utility Relocation Account Add
 of Oak Brook Terrace, Illinois for a contract amount of $1,411,902.00. The funding source is the LGC right. Thank you. Is there a second? Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to amend the committee report 6C4 to adopt a resolution awarding a sole source contract for North Main Street corridor reconstruction utility relocation in Commonwealth Edison
 a vote for Brooke Terrace for a contract amount of $1,411,902. Funding source being the LGC writer. It's been moved and seconded. Is there a discussion? Alderman Harvey. Question. On the writer, does that show on the bills as a separate line item for the time that it is in effect? Or is it just subsumed within some kind of other taxes and fees? Mr. Hayes.
 would you happen to know the answer Mr. Bittner or Mr. Blay? I believe Mr. Galroth, I thought I saw him come in, so if he would, pardon, yes, if no one here knows the answer I would ask that he answer that question. First I ask Mr. Bittner and then Mr. Galroth, if there's no objection, if he could use the microphone in the back. I'm told that it is a separate line item so that it's tracked appropriately.
 Mr. Gold, if you could use that microphone back if you want to add anything. And let me amend that. It's a separate line item for each project that is placed on there. So that if there are four projects going on simultaneously during the summer, because I think the way it came out in the newspaper it said over the course of a year. That's assuming that the project goes for a year. My understanding of the writer is that comment can only charge that money during the time that the project is active.
 not currently but there's a a motion from the ICC that has passed recently where we can extend the time period but right now the writer lgc will be a separate line item upon each customer's bill for each and every project that we have in the area thank you you're welcome thank you I'll read the lead then thank you Mr. Mayor I would just like to
 ask if it states the project so does it state North Main Street or Harrison 50 cents or whatever I believe so based on what Mr. Gallagher said thank you further discussion Alderman Newberg thank you I also would like to know if there is going to be as you stated there
 And my concern is putting concurrent projects on a bill where someone knows 65 cents or 45 cents monthly for a year, but then we come up with another project that may start in May, so like the last three months of that project, we're going to have 75 or $1.05 on
 I was led to believe that we were going to try or have in here someplace where we could not have concurrents. I'll take a stab at this again and ask staff to correct me if I'm wrong, but it's up to the council to determine which items would go on right now. This would be the only item on bills and I believe this is the only one that if it were to pass, we would have given approval to.
 Okay, so if we're doing the North Main project and we have X amount on the bill and it's spelled out and then we come up with another project that's going to start, the council would be voting, it would be up to the council to vote that in. But can we, we can't start the project until we have that as a monthly billing?
 you're asking about that so how does one with the project project to start with that have to wait to start till we finish with the first right I thought I'll try to answer that again just to cut to the chase and ask Mr. Vintner or Mr. Gallrop to fill in if I get it wrong but we could if we wanted to I know there's been just based on a lot of discussions I've had from council members the goal of limiting
 the number of projects but if the council or future council years from now based on what the current law is wanted to start a second project before one was done my belief is theoretically that could happen although I think that's been a concern raised by council members today that they wouldn't want to see that happen but I would just ask staff to confirm whether or not it's technically possible to layer more than one project in on a bill
 Mr. Ritter. Yes, each one would be an individual action and their schedules could overlap and appear on a bill at the same time. To be sensitive to the Council's will here, I think these projects have been in the planning process for a very long time so it's not something that we would whimsically bring forward. These things would be discussed in future projects,
 much sooner in advance and we'd be able to tell you more appropriately when these things would hit the bill even if you pass something today, the rate doesn't go on, the charge doesn't go on the bill until the work begins. So it may not start for six months so that the ratepayers won't even see the charge for six months until the work starts.
 That's not what my concern is. Okay, can you tell me right now, we're talking about putting this rider on for the North Main project. Can you tell me right now what projects are scheduled for 2017 that might need a rider?
 We don't have any projects scheduled in 2017 that would need a rider. I will tell you that we've been working on the West State Street phase two project for quite some time. That's not likely to hit the street until 2018 or later based on the state's funding and their programming. So I'm not, me, I'm not concerned about layering in another rider for one of our major corridors in 2017. But good. Thank you, I'll hold you to that.
 I appreciate the discussion. I just wanted to stress that a number of Alderman had asked me if going into next year within our CIP book could we develop a council policy that
 that would give guidance to staff on how we want to see them come back with direction. In other words, if it's the will of the council to give guidance to staff to limit at any given time the amount of an LGC rider, I think that would help staff then to prepare not just next year but the next five years, let's say, of activity to make sure that the work was consistent with what the will of the council is. Other hands that were up on the beach? Thank you.
 It's clear to me, Your Honor, that we've run out of resources for these projects to have to add another tax on to the taxpayers. They want to call it a rider, but whatever it is, a tax, they have no other money.
 and I agree with you and other aldermen that we do need to develop policy of how we're going to go forward with this in some kind of a way that's consistent and some funding source that's sustainable. And it's very difficult for me, especially when we've twice voted down this rider, that now we're back here again as was said earlier, but I don't see how I can honestly vote for
 putting this tax upon the people through the utility bill that's as simple as it is in my point of view we've got a one cent sales tax that we're using every dime of that that's going we've got projects coming out of our ears so i i just don't get it i get it but i don't understand i feel a lot better your honor if we had a policy because i don't know what's coming next i mean we talk about different quarters and um
 you know and rooftops and that kind of thing you know along about east state street your honor even the smaller area that i serve there's over 18 000 rooftops in that area and one of them expressed a week or two ago that he had 700 that could be affected so i mean if we're going to talk about homes around where projects are slated or not slated i'm going to talk about that too
 Because I'm just as concerned about the residents of the 10th Ward and the 18,000 house rooftops around that area that doesn't have underground burial for utilities all the way up to the tollway. That's one of the major corners of Rockford. I don't see that that is being planned and I'm not so sure it should be. Maybe it will someday 20, 30 years from now, but my goodness. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Herring. Thank you, Your Honor. In line with Alderman
 with regard to the policy. I've heard it said several times that we buried the lines on South Main Street. We buried some of the lines on South Main Street. When we got to my residential area, we put the lines into the residential area. We moved them off South Main Street and put them in front of people's homes. We put them in the right of way. It looks horrible. It increases the chance that their trees are going to cause power outages if limbs break
 And I did not know that that was being done until some of the residents came in and said, this is just ridiculous. Why would they bury the lines where there are no people? And now that they come into our neighborhoods, they've just destroyed the appeal of our front yards.
 So I guess the second question is exactly who decides where we're going to bury the lines and why do some people get them buried and others don't? And that's my other issue with this whole ComEd rider thing. You know, it's not fair. It's not consistent. And we certainly have no input. All I was told was that the lines on South Main Street were going to be buried. And I said, great, wonderful, but that didn't happen to my neighborhoods.
 So if we're not going to have a policy where neighborhoods count just as much as corridors for people driving into our city so that they look beautiful, then I have an additional problem with it. And if we're going to bury lines in some neighborhoods, then we darn well ought to be burying them in all. Thank you for the discussion. I would just ask staff as we prepare our CIP for 2016,
 to try to work with council members who are interested in the topic to offer some draft
 that could be incorporated into our five year, one year plan and our five year plans for the coming years. I think that would help answer some of the questions about which roads and what's the strategy and then ultimately the council would have the chance to vote on that, both with a one year and a five year window and provide guidance to staff as we move into the next operational years.
 Is there any additional discussion on the item? Hearing none, please clerk call the roll. Durkee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? No. Hervey? Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Odo? No. Newberg? Beach? No. Elliott? McNeely? Chiarelli? Aye. That's 8 ayes and 5 nays. The matter passes, thank you. Which now I believe all the aldermen do have a copy.
 I don't intend to reread it again, but I did make the motion to amend as read. So before getting there, we've moved and amended both of those items. Mr. Hayes, I just want to make sure I didn't mess up my parliamentary procedure here. So they both were moved and seconded. Both of the amendments were approved. Do I still need to take votes on the amended versions?
 your honor it's my view that those would properly regretted their emotions and resolutions and the crib that all the ultimate hand as well as yourself because what was on the agenda tonight was the action of the committee and that was what was being amended from a committee report various issues to a recommendation committee recommendations so to speak for the resolution now we'll take up those items and resolutions thank you yes sir all in
 The other item? Yes, so item two, which I made a motion to amend as read. I don't have a second yet. So there's been a motion and a second, and this is what I'm going to be reading. And I want to make sure I've got the right language here. Hold on. It's basically clarifying the use of the federal funding for the design of the parking garage in lawyer speak anyway, right? So use the language I have. Correct me if I've got this, if this is wrong.
 The amendment motion reads as follows. The committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement amendment with RMTD for the Rockford Regional Multimodal Transportation Center, RRMMTC project, recommending approval of the city total $463,545.27 to complete the design work for the transportation center. The original agreement was executed by the council January 16, 2015,
 The proposed prime agreement between RMTD, the City and the design consultant for remaining design fee of up to $2,317,726.33 will be funded 80% by funds from federal sources. The City will pay the local match of up to $200,000 on the first $800,000 of federal funding to complete the parking portion of the project as outlined in the consultant services agreement. Should the State of Illinois resume funding the state portion of the allocation for the
 The state funding will take the place of the city funding at the earliest possible time. The state of Illinois procurement rules permit such a change to occur. The balance of the design will not proceed until the state of Illinois releases the state portion of the grant funding. Any such time state funds are released, the 20% match the federal funding shall begin to be funded by state grant funds. Funding for this project will come from sales tax. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 everything in perfect so that is the item it's been moved and it was seconded their discussion all the photo then all over you know I understand that we made a commitment regarding this on however we know the transportation has been cut 10% by Springfield we know we're not getting the train and I don't know about the other algorithm but when that when that
 development agreement comes back up for an extension, I plan on saying no. We got a brand new bus station over there, what is it, a mill? Bill's it, they're gonna come, we're gonna have buses running in and out, we got one bus and two employees.
 I say this money that we're going to be cashing out, we need to keep because we're 3 million in the home. So I'm really not going to vote for anything like this. I think we need to put a stop to the shenanigans and really take a good hard look. We're saying we can't hire more policemen, but we're going to do this for design. Sorry, I'd rather have more policemen.
 so I'm not going to give any more money for any designs on anything because I'm not even going to vote to extend the contract for development for hotels so we need to really take a good hard look and stop wasting money. Thank you. I also am not going to be able to support this mainly because
 I took my daughter on the train when she was in fifth grade, and her daughter is a senior in college. I don't think any of them are going to be able to ride a train real soon out of Rockford. And I do not, we have too many important things in Rockford that, you know, we just voted on a couple of them. We have other things in Rockford, and if this is a case of where this money, if we don't use it, we'll lose it, well then I guess we're going to have to lose it because I do not
 a need for this and if the need for this is parking for Gorman they can pay for their own parking thank you discussion one is a point of information point out what the city is committed to our current development agreement with Gorman which includes a number of items on our that are required of the city including the development and construction of a parking
 I also want to clarify that this money, and correct me if I'm wrong Mr. Vittner or Mr. Ryan, would only go towards the construction design of the parking structure, not the train
 and not the train station. That's because of the concerns about the state not moving forward with some of the investments in the actual train line. The final thing I just wanted to mention, I know it's a concern about the train not coming, but I would just remind council members that this has been a long-term process. There's $60 million that was line item 2010, I believe it is, by the state of Illinois for this capital leave.
 and projects like the Quad Cities rail service is continuing. I think we need to put, if we want train service in our community, this is simply a matter of politics that we have to continue to advocate for. Other discussion? Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to speak. I certainly echo some of the same sentiments that
 other alderman has stated about the train station and the concern over when and if it'll come but last week the amendment i was discussing with alderman frost and mr bittner was to reduce this to the 200 000 just for the parking deck structure so that we could avoid spending money potentially on an item that may or may not come
 And so this $200,000, I'm confident in Mr. Bittner's work that he'll expend it just on the actual deck and I don't think we'll be building the deck until that agreement has been solidified with Gorman. So I have confidence in Mr. Bittner and staff that I think this is the right move to make to continue our agreement that we made several months ago.
 One of the other concerns that we've raised several times and I haven't seen it yet is that there are a number of holdups in the Gorman, we keep talking about what our obligations are under the development agreement with Gorman. If my count is correct, they haven't hit any of theirs.
 and I know there have been some funding holdups and things of that sort but the entire landscape has changed so I'm having trouble supporting spending another dime I mean I look at the work that's being done on the south main street conversion and the money we're spending on that that's ours if I'm not mistaken we're spending huge amounts of money and I think
 I'm not seeing anything coming from the other side except a 50 unit potential 50 unit plan for housing development that the people sitting around this horseshoe have said we don't want and that's from the people were there you know now in an agreement with on this hotel I think we need to come together and have a
 clarification of the minds because I don't think the meeting that we had some months ago is valid any longer given the landscape we're currently under I have no idea where Gorman is with their funding or anything else and what is their position on being a partner with the city with the hotel if they're going to shove housing down our throats that we don't want so I think we need to get either back on track or off the train
 There's been a motion and a second to lay this matter over. I think it will automatically lay over because I believe this is the first time it's been up for passage. Is that right, Mr. Hayes? Yes, sir. The matter will automatically lay over. Thank you. Go ahead. Thank you. Officers report. Just a couple items this evening. Number one, I have a referral that will lay over tonight for the Community Action Agency Board of Ms. Kelly Galluzzo.
 She was recommended to fill a vacant private sector position on the board and would serve a three-year term that will lay over pursuant to council rule. Her profile is attached to the memorandum that's been distributed. If you have questions, feel free to reach out to her directly or you can feel free to contact my office. I also wanted to thank the incredible work done by our public works crews that were out repairing water main on my block.
 yesterday. They had to be there about 20 hours I would guess. I called it in myself about 10 in the morning. And when I went to bed around 1.30 in the morning they were still out working in the hole. It was an incredibly complex break.
 I think about 20 feet long of broken, cracked water main and buckled over 150 feet, I believe, of roadway due to all the pressure that had built up out of this pretty large leak. Again, I want to thank the entire Public Works team under Tim Hanson's leadership and the Water Division does an incredible amount of work. This is actually one of the easier climates times of the year to work in as opposed to
 tougher when it's 10 below and we have a deep frost line that we may be working with. So I want to thank them, Tim and you got a, and Ms. Jansen, you got an incredible team.
 Also, it is a reminder to us about our upcoming challenges that we're continuing to look at. I know Mr. Holdeman has been working with council members and getting input from the community on options for us on our rate related issues as we move forward. But this is ultimately these are the issues that our city staff has to deal with throughout the community. They're very challenging but they're doing a great job with what they have available.
 Finally, I just wanted to again thank Judge Collins that was here for Domestic Violence Awareness Month. One of the issues that we have as a perennial challenge on any given month is a domestic violence rate that contributes to between roughly 30 and 40 percent of our violent crime in any given month.
 Judge Collins has been at the forefront really working with community leaders, but she can't do it alone. Our police department can't do it alone. And I just encourage, there was a guest editorial in yesterday's paper from Pastor Cadward Copeland, who had talked about this concept of Connect Rockford. I've been having discussions and will continue to do so with members of our local community
 criminal justice partners and look forward to fruitful conversations and hopefully develop more partnerships, whether it's domestic violence or it's dealing with other elements of our violent crime. I just appreciate all of the cooperation that's building and the sense that, again, we can try to do together what we certainly can't do alone. Thank you. Further officers' reports? All notable.
 I would like to remind everybody that October 13th at 6.30 p.m. Broadway Covenant, the Roland Green Association will be having their meeting where our water people will be to talk about the upcoming raising of the water. So that will be committee night for us. I will not be here. I will be with my residents at the association trying to help ease their minds and get them to understand this.
 Also, I missed the first budget meeting. So what I'm going to request will be from here till now, when we're done, is, I saw the police budget, three pages.
 No. I'd like to see a line by line item for each department. I would like all the aldermen to get that because if we're going to really get down to the nitty gritty and start cutting things, I want to see a line by line of where we're spending, how we're spending it. I don't want to see a graph on overtime. I don't want three pages. I want to know more.
 Because we need to start making cuts where things are not necessary. And in order to do that, we need to see it line by line. And I'm hoping that the other aldermen will understand this and agree with me that we need to see that. We're not going to make decisions on a three-page, you know, budget. Three pages.
 And I won't make any decisions regarding the budget if I don't get a line by line on where things are spent. I want to know how many pens, pencils, paper, everything. Mr. Black, maybe you could point out where additional information can be found about the budget proposal? Well, thank you, Mayor. There is a budget book that was distributed, a Blue Binder 2016 budget that includes details for each of the department, line item detail.
 Everyone should have gotten a copy. If you didn't, please, we will get you another copy. I'm sorry, we must have forgot to put one on your desk. I apologize. We can certainly go into more detail by cost center also, but within those department budgets, there is line edit detail. It doesn't get into the detail you're talking about with pens and pencils, but it's a starting point. No, no, no, no. I understand. And I mean, it doesn't get in,
 And I take that seriously what you said. It doesn't get into cost center detail and some further line item detail. It's just got total numbers by line item. So to get into further detail, and not the pens and pencils, but about different service contracts and that type of thing, there would be more information that would be required that we could go into.
 should because we have some hard-pressed decisions and I believe there are cuts that are going to have to be made but I won't touch our vital services which is public works, police and fire. I'm just not going to do that. I would recommend that to anybody. You can't just keep the conversation to the chair. Oh, okay. I just don't want a side conversation. I understand it's a conversation that's important to everybody but I'll call on speakers. Okay, so here's what I'd like.
 I'd like more detailed and I'd like to have that book but I'd like more detailed thank you we will get that for all the men of Thompson college that's the word or
 tomorrow Wednesday the West Gateway Coalition will be holding their meetings at 35 old West State Street which would be the OSF building in the future I want to thank Tim Hanson as
 I acknowledge the fact that he had a huge very well for this community and the organization the police utilized it for training while they're all back and neighborhood groups that I think it was seven you fit on a regular basis
 that was one building that the city home that would get a lot of you thought of it and so I want definitely think got with him and his staff as well as you and your staff or providing a place for the community to come freely in me and discuss issues in the community and
 what they think would you feel like that building I don't know where the police call in will be going at this point I know they had their last meeting last week so thank you
 Thank you. While you ask the question, I would just ask Chief Representative, if we have an answer, because at the next location, the next call-in. But I also want to thank you all and Thompson Kelly for covering last week for Pastor Copeland, who wasn't able to be there and did a fine job in doing, just thanking you for your work last week, covering for Pastor Copeland and others that have filled in the community role and did a great job. Thank you. Chief Representative?
 Thank you, Mayor. We are looking at OSF to be a potential place for our parole call-in. Thank you. Further officer reports? Hold it, Collin. Well, first, I'd like to say I received multiple calls this past week regarding Tim Hansen and his department.
 You did a very good job. They all wanted me to tell you thank you, thank you, thank you and all of your staff for being so speedy to their responses and the great attitude that your employees have. So thank you for representing Board 6 so well.
 the other thing is that we have a new neighborhood network meeting on tomorrow night at 7 p.m. at Jefferson High School it's a dual county and city neighborhood network that's going to very first meeting its meeting at 7 p.m. at Jefferson High School so all the neighborhoods around Jefferson High School are invited to attend thank you thank you all thank you a couple things first of all
 Booker Washington Center, this is the African American Resource Center at Booker Washington Center, is having an annual dinner. This is sort of the lead up to Booker's 100th year. So this is number 99. And I can't wait to see what will happen for number 100. There
 There are a lot of us in this city who would not be where we are today, which might be a good thing to some people, but not necessarily to others. Booker provided not just a safe haven, but it was true development. Little kids like me got to experience ballet at Booker, and yes, charm school at Booker.
 I'm sorry, I still laugh when I say that one. At Booker, everything from Girl Scouts, many men became machinists because Booker had an old machine shop and got some machines and taught African American men machining skills because they were not permitted into many of the trades in the factories.
 So that dinner is going to be on October 29th, that's a Thursday, at Giovanni's. It's got the social hours at 6. The dinner will be at 7. Jesse White, our Illinois Secretary of State, will be the guest speaker. And the Jesse White tumblers will also be there to perform as part of the, during part of the event.
 If anyone is interested in that, they can contact Jesse Bates at 815-962-9117. That's at Booker Washington Center. And there's some other information I think that will be posted. Or you can just give me a call and I'll let you know.
 The other meeting that Alderman McNeely talked about, and first I want to thank Alderman McNeely and my other colleagues. I had a little surgery last week and as you see I'm just bouncing around like a rubber ball. We have some excellent medical facilities and providers here in Rockford. And to that end, I want to keep it that way.
 Everyone's going to have a different opinion about the whole issue of Rockford Memorial Hospital and what Mercy Rockford wants to do with Rockford Memorial and build a new hospital out on Riverside. I'm opposed, and I think people who are opposed and will be affected by these changes have a right to their voice.
 I don't like being threatened because we wish to speak our mind and ask that our voices be heard. And even though I stood here and chastised you, Mayor, a couple of weeks ago for writing a letter in support, you should have heard me when I read the editorial where you were being chastised for not apparently writing a cheer and performing it on council floor.
 It's a tough issue because I think everybody wants to see economic development. But sometimes we get so blinded by money that's being thrown at us that we forget that these things are going to affect people. Moving some of these services will mean that people will not receive certain types of service. I'm not a doctor. Neither is Javon Bay.
 So to that end, I have asked a physician, his name is Dr. Gary Merlotti. He is described in an article that someone sent me as the architect of the Chicago Trauma Network. And he's going to be here on October 14th at 6 o'clock p.m. at Klim Arboretum.
 He does not have a dog in this fight. So he's going to talk to us about trauma centers. What's the difference between a level one and a level two? Why have a trauma center at all? What kind of service and support do they provide? And what will the impact be on Rockford Memorial if the trauma center and the cardiac cath lab and some other services are moved?
 I want an objective discussion about this because I think the people who are going to be affected deserve to have that information. So it's going to be at Clem and for people who know that Clem can be a little bit of a walk from the parking lot up to the building, I'm 90% sure that we'll be able to have one of the golf cart shuttles. So it's open to the public, it's open to everyone, it's not a time for people to try to truck
 flood the place with employees or anything of that sort. It's my meeting. I'm paying for it. And everyone is welcome. But it is for people to come and get information and be heard. So anyone needs additional information, give me a call. I'm sorry, 6 o'clock p.m.
 And I'm going to be sending out some emails and some flyers and things of that sort, too. So I'm hoping my colleagues can come because, ultimately, we're going to have some huge decisions to make about an annexation if that comes to fruition. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman McNamara, then Alderman Newberg.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to mention two things that happened this weekend. One was the 20th anniversary of the Stars of Light Theater Troupe, which took place down at the Nordloff Theater. And the other was the 20th anniversary of the Stars of Light Theater Troupe,
 It was pretty moving to attend this. It was folks who have been struggling with mental health issues who come together over this common theater troupe. And the videos that they shared were incredibly moving, just how art and this group really changed their lives to be
 feeling of acceptance I guess is probably the best I could say but it was a great event also a big thank you to the Arts Council for the wonderful work they did on the art scene this weekend going around downtown it was just really fun to see so many new faces and it seems like every art scene there's more and more new faces of folks who have not experienced it downtown in several years and to see all the new developments and also I think our
 the beautiful artwork, but you also get an opportunity, oftentimes you go into buildings, and then parts of the buildings that you're often not in, such as the second floor of Benny's Cleaners, you would never know what a great space that is unless you were able to participate in art scene.
 Lastly, this Sunday is the Head of the Rock Regatta, October 11th in the afternoon. There's about 65 teams from across the country and around 1,700 participants. And I would urge all the citizens to take time and get down and enjoy the river and watch the races. Thank you. All over Newport. Thank you. This is maybe on a lighter note, but I want to say thank you very much for the sound system.
 It'll cut down on a lot of calls I get on Tuesday of, I saw the lips moving, but I didn't hear anything on Comcast. Couldn't hear anything. Thank you. But I think the next step should be to rearrange this room more conducive to the public being able to hear.
 part of it by changing so that they don't see our back. Comcast can hear me talking. The people behind me hear a voice, but they see the back of my head. My hairdo is not that great. I want this room to be conducive to the public, whether they're on television listening and seeing us or if they're taking their voice
 time to sit in our audience. I also don't feel in this day and age, I hate to bring it up, but I don't think this is a very safe environment with our back to the doors. What was his name, Hitchcock or whatever? Hickock? Did not like that.
 But I want to say thank you again because the listening public can now hear us. And I think our next step, I know there are designs that have been used. We can use the same equipment and desks that are here. All we need is sweat equity. We don't need to purchase new desks. We don't need to purchase new equipment. So I would like that looked into soon. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion, all the, or Officer Port's on the beach.
 I want to say I appreciate the words you had to say today at the airport, and the dedication of the facility that's out there is quite massive. For those that went out there today, many aldermen, some came to left early because they were cold. But that was a nice ceremony, but I thank you for the comments you made on behalf of us. This was well done. And then one other thing, Your Honor.
 I know that the discussion for the utilities brings beauty to the area. But another sense of beauty in another way is the main corridors we drive on that are not in repair. We run those downtown Rockford now. You've done a great job downtown. The pavement and all the streets is great to drive on. You're proud to drive on it.
 But I was on 11th Street again today and Charles Street. It's just absolutely the pitch to drive on it. As a matter of fact, if you go on Charles Street from about 30 feet on down, the center curbs are all cracked and crushed. It looks like a disaster zone. To me, people coming into Rockford,
 judge us by that just as much as they would judge us by whether our utilities are buried in the ground. So I'm just asking how slowly as the CIP program this year is on the path that maybe some funds, additional funds can be made to pave some of our main corridors that our visitors and our residents drive on. Thank you.
 Thank you. All of a new bird. Thank you for letting me speak again. The other thing is we have a little known group over on the 7th ward and the 9th ward that's called the Neighborhood Group and they have moved their meeting from the October
 company they moved their normal Tuesday night meeting to October 20th at 6 o'clock at Good Shepherd and I just wanted our neighbors in the 7th and 8th Ward to know that and come we'd like to see you there thank you thank you all the McNeely them all the material thank you very much
 I would just like to reiterate that I'm having the meeting regarding Rockford Memorial Hospital this coming Thursday here at City Hall. I hope we've passed out a number of flyers over the weekend and I just hope that people will come out from all over the city to express their concerns and their desires.
 The newspaper had an article in editorial this past weekend. It's quite confusing because in one paragraph it was saying how much the president of Mercy-Rockford appreciate the West Side of Rockford and then in the few paragraphs later saying that if he doesn't, he believes, the writer, he believes that if Mr. Bay doesn't get approval
 from the state board that he'll probably close Rockford Memorial. Well, you can't have it both ways. So my concern is that it will be closed.
 maybe not this year, maybe not next year, but in the future, near future, I believe if he gets approval, then it will be closed. And so that's why I'm having the meeting, that's why I took the time out this weekend to pass out the flyers that I did pass out to get people involved and for the state to hear from individuals.
 other than politicians, other than organizations, the people that live there, the people that used to live there, to hear their concerns and their desires. So I hope that people will turn out this coming Thursday again here at City Hall. Thank you very much. Thank you. Alderman Trello. Thank you, Your Honor. Very saddened to hear this week that one of our officers, Richard Gambini, served in the burial
 And I just wanted to let everyone know that the Rockford Police Department is selling raffle tickets to help this little boy, Jonathan, a very beautiful boy who's stricken with a neurological disease that's uncurable. And they are selling raffle tickets to the Rockford Police Department, or you can get a hold of myself. I can get you in contact with the Gambini family. They're a dedicated family to this community, and they're in a time of need.
 And if everyone could say a little extra prayer for this family. There's a flyer I'll have made for everybody to pass around. Please spread the word. We can help you get anything. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For the officer's reports. The police department has collected. Motions and resolutions. I'm sorry. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mayor Mnuchin, your resolution, Code and Regulations Committee number one, the alignment Rockford Academy Act Code 2015, scheduled for October 15th, request a waiver of parking fees only. Is that up for passage, Robert? Thank you. This matter is up for passage. The Rockford Academy Act Code 2015, October 15th, request for waiver of parking fees. There is discussion. Alderman Hervey. Just to clarify, this was for the...
 the people that would be there as vendors and exhibitors, not for attendees. It's not waiving fees or opening it up free just to the entire public. Is that correct? Yes, when I talk to them, that would be for their vendors only and it's up to just a certain amount of parking for vendors. Anything over that, it's not total vendors. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion.
 Hearing none, I believe we can just do a voice vote on this. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. I'll be back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an award of bid for North Main Street Demolition Package E to NTRK Group for their bid of $109,733. I have an award of RFP for advanced scheduling software to In Time Solutions for an amount not to exceed $185,000 in a five-year total.
 I have an award of RFP for Head Start Transportation Services to first students in the amount of $1,625 per day for 238 students not to exceed $269,750 for 166 days per year. I have an award of bid for Traffic Signal Repair Services to Engel Electric of Sterling, Illinois for an estimated annual value of $25,000.
 I have an award of sole source contract for emergency valve shut off systems to drive equipment of Elgin, Illinois in the amount of $74,600 to supply emergency valve shut off systems at wall 35 and wall 9.
 I have the vouchers in the amount of $8,409,490.11. Then I have the two amended items earlier, a resolution awarding a sole source contract for North Main Street overhead utility relocation to Comcast Cable Communications for a contract amount of $500,598.58. Okay.
 and a resolution awarding a sole source contract for North Main Street Corridor Reconstruction Utility Location to Commonwealth Edison for a contract amount of $1,411,902. Funding sources, LGC Rider. I place those items up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage. And I'm just going to reference those really quickly under Rome, Numeral 8, Motions and Resolutions.
 Letters C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 plus the two items from previously the North Main Street overhead utility relocation to Comcast Cable of Elmhurst for a contract amount of
 resolution awarding the contract for North Main Street quarter reconstruction utility relocation account both Edison and Oak Brook contract $111,902 funding source hope you see I'm just wanting to know how to identify the two added items on the agenda so you can take the first six first and then vote on the last two items separately that's fine
 So Congress, or discussion first on the first six items under Roman numeral 8C, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and the discussion on the BGN. Thank you, sir. So that I know that whatever's on our iPad now under the agenda or paper, we only have six, and that's just all we're voting on now, those six? Correct. Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you. So we'll take those six items, Roman numeral 8C.
 8C-123456 first. Any discussion on those? Hearing none, please call the roll. McKinney. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Hemming. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. That's 13 ayes, 1-6 early. Manage passed, thank you.
 Thank you. The two items, the first having to do with the Comcast relocation, the second one can refer to as the ComEd relocation. The first one for Comcast is $500,598.58. Funding source, CIP General Fund. The next one is for ComEd, $1,411,902. Funding source being the LGC Rider. Discussion on those?
 here in public for us. I just want to go to the city and the administration and the staff who are working hard on these projects and we've discussed them for quite some time and I am not, I'm a fan of the aesthetics of the project. I think it does make our city look better.
 I have driven down some of the streets where in which these have been done, including Harrison, which had part of it done and frankly I think it still looks good with just the street lights, the new street lights that the city is using. Those lights are very good. My concern obviously right now is really two-fold. One is that we're faced right now with a $3.2 million budget deficit and I'm concerned to
 It's like getting the add-on on the car. Do you need the extra stereo system when you're buying the car and you don't have the money to get it? I'm just concerned about spending this type of money on a particular project or particular projects. Can I have a quick question? Yes.
 We've taken money out of the CIP and now we've kind of split the baby and now we've just passed a tax on our residents. And although it may not be what some folks consider a significant tax, to some it is. And to some it's just a principle of matter. That we have now invoked a new era of creating another tax on the citizens of Rockford. And we are already a city that is taxed beyond
 believe in the state of Illinois. So I was just asking as we go forward, I would love to see some sort of Alderman or committee come forward to address the future needs of our roads on the corridors of the city because as Alderman Beach
 So eloquently put it, we have a whole bunch of roads out there that are in that shape. And I think when I'm asking people to come into our city, that we're coming into the Ingersoll Center, coming into all sorts of parts of the city, not just downtown, but everywhere they come, and where people are driving, going back and forth from their homes to work each and every day. Instead, you know, we have this North Main Road that really is a corridor for people that have left our city, that moved to Roscoe and Rockton, and are coming back in the city to come to work.
 Why do I know that? Because I have lots of friends that do that each and every day. That's the way they choose to get downtown Rockford to get to work every day. So, you know, I just think it's important to really come up with a plan in a list of roads that we can improve and that just frankly need improvement and focus on those in the future. And I would love to see all of the lines get braided when they can, but I just don't think right now at this particular time is the time to do it. Thank you.
 all the way to know it's actually going to be a couple of well I was going to speak on it but I I do want to share some conversations that I had from residents of the community and one resident put it so nicely to say something all the time holding because they like it we have to pay for it but they like it it is a tax I don't care what title you use where you use it where you take it from it is the best
 on our residents of the community and I think one of the things that we could have done to respect the residents of this community is to take a poll to see if the residents want to see if they wanted to pay for it but we didn't it was decided amongst a few that this is how we'll do it and it keep kept coming back to this council until it got approved but that's disrespecting what we all represent
 It's also disrespecting and not giving account of what the residents want of this community. It's sad when you get to the point where you sit here and you vote on something that you'd like to have instead of listening to what the residents have to say. Thank you. Thank you, Ellen. Rebecca, did you have a hand? Sure. Just a couple of things. You know, having the majority, well, there's voters in my ward.
 And so I've gotten quite a few contacts from people who live in the 12th Ward who don't view North Main as a means to get in and out of Rockford, but they actually look at it as a place that's part of their neighborhood and something that they want to be proud of and that they're hoping that with the new construction of North Main that's been long overdue and that having a beautiful streetscape is going to really help us for economic development there. It's going to make people prouder.
 I can tell you I have not gotten one person who has emailed me or called me in the ward who has asked me to not do this. The neighborhood associations are in favor of it. Every email I have gotten is in favor of it saying why would you pass up this opportunity. I really am grateful for the aldermen who have voted tonight. I hope we can get this last vote done.
 because I think it's really going to be a tremendous boon to the 12th Ward as well as to the city of Rockford. And I just want, you know, as Autumna Thompson Kelly said, it's important that we listen to our residents. Well, I certainly have. And they have all said that they'd be more than happy to pay a little bit extra on their comment bill to make sure we get this done. So I can have good conscience that I've done that.
 Thank you. North Main is not in my ward. It's next to my ward, but 90 percent of my people use that road every day. I first got calls and, you know, sort of irate, what do you mean you're going to put something on my electric to pay to bury some lines? Why aren't they
 After that was answered, the other thing that people said after it was explained is this isn't something that's going to go on your bill from now until you decide not to have electricity. This is a short-term solution and I also explained it so that we do not have to take the money out of CIP because if you look around, each one of us aldermen get a budget.
 for a choice of another word, or an award each year to fix roads. My constituents, it's mostly a residential area. I've got three, four big roads, and Mr. Hanson knows which one those are because we talk about them a lot, and Harry. But no one has questioned once, after I explained to them, it's a short-term fee
 being put on the electric so that we don't have to take the money out of CIP to do this so that we can keep that money in CIP to work on roads and major problems that we have.
 that no, don't do this. It does look better, looks are great. North Main was a very prosperous, years ago when I was first married, that was where we did all of our shopping. I wanna see other areas besides
 I'm sorry, Mr. Beach. East State 173. I want to see the little areas come back around Rockford. West State Street, that's a beautiful, beautiful entrance into town. North Main is also one of the northern entrances into town.
 If we can improve that and get people to come in and spend time shopping and spend money in Rockford, maybe we won't have to do these riders in future times. But right now, this is a way to do it. Everyone's going to pay for a short term. And even though it's not in my ward, I'm going to pay it because my ward will benefit, just like the rest of the city. Thank you. I'll let Elliot and then I'll let Rachel.
 I've been in favor of the solid one, but there's been so many, so much impassioned pleas against us. I just want to make sure. How much extra will this be on the average, you know, $50 electric bill? Let's take that Mr. Hance. On an average homeowner bill, it could be anywhere. If it's Harrison Avenue, it's
 50 to 65 cents more per pay period for a period of maybe four to six months. This one's North Maine? The North Maine one will be probably around the same thing for 12 months. So it's not a huge amount on a homeowner's bill. So maybe like $5 for the entire year? Yeah, it's five, six bucks for the entire year. Thank you for clarifying that. On the beach. Well, I'm sorry.
 just a follow-up to what I've just heard. I don't think the issue is whether it's $5 or $50. It's the principle of the issue. You have to go to the heart of what the issue is. And as far as the CIP program goes, the city streets, we're not going to be able to
 I've been here when we used to have bonds and we got rid of those, which was the right thing to do. And I know the amount of money that we got for our street program today is about the same as it was 15 years ago. And when we talked about that on the council floor, we were the way scolded by other aldermen by saying, we shouldn't be so concerned about our wards, we should be looking at leveraging projects. What state we've leveraged?
 Morgan Street we've leveraged, other major projects, Harrison Avenue we've leveraged, and on and on it goes. Now, I know it's made its leverage, so don't worry about your streets. Well, I tell you the truth, I am worried about Charles Street. I am worried about those center curbs that look like it's a disaster area because it doesn't send a good message to the people that live here or visit here that we've got to act together.
 So the CFP program is the only amount of money that we've been given by the people of Rockford, one cent in order to handle the projects. And the cost today, please if I get this wrong, somebody jump on me. But about 10 to 12 years ago, the cost to resurface one block was somewhere around $14,000. Mr. Hanson, would you ask Mr. Hanson how much it costs to resurface one city block today?
 Mr. Hanson, do you know what a pause through service is? Well, you told me, you told us not to address the question directly. No, I'm, I'm... Depending on the block, it's on a normal street, probably about $20,000 per block. Okay, so we've gone from $14,000 to $20,000. So that tells me the $5,000 that's allocated to each ward is short. Now, thank you for letting me speak. Thank you. Other discussion?
 I just wanted to again, just as a point of information to
 Let the council know that as we get into the CIP and look at planning a new budget in a five year window but also next year's budget all of the issues that have been raised tonight are certainly germane in terms of the prioritization and we'll continue to take a look at it. There's a couple suggestions made about breakout committees or other work. We've done it different ways in the past but if there's any additional suggestions on how
 CIP analysis community meetings other discussions I'd certainly be open to that and would encourage our staff to be open as well any conversations community members want to have about the direction and the overall immediate obviously 2016 plan but our five year window as well for the overall CFP budget and I expect that we'll be close to having a planning book ready in public works over the next few weeks.
 for next year as an initial start. Any additional discussion on the item? Again, we're voting these last two resolutions. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Hilley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, sets eight to five. Matter passed, thank you. Further resolutions? New business.
 under Roman numeral 10 a 1 and 2 development agreement between the city of Rockford and Alpine Bank number two is a development agreement with Hanley Lofts LLC regarding the vault repairs at 301 South Bank Street Rockford Illinois first would like to ask that rules be suspended seconded Roman numeral 9 a 1 and 2 all those in favor please say aye opposed no aye 7
 Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'd like to place the items under Roman numeral 9, 8, 1, and 2 up for passage. Matters are for passage is their discussion. Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Purvey? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye.
 I believe that's 13, both 1 and 2. Matters passed. Thank you. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Enrollment number 9B1 through 13, as I previously read in committee reports, Your Honor, I move to suspend the rules. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules. Enrollment number 9B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13.
 I've been in motion second, I'll expand the rules. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Aye. Thank you. Can I place these ordinances up for passage? The ordinances are passages to their discussion. Hearing none, I'm sorry, Mr. Hayes. The sale of the vacant lot at 308 South Central for $11,000 requires the affirmative vote of all 12 aldermen in the chamber right now. Who would lose?
 all in her he is temporarily out of the chamber I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
 I'm sorry 12 on item 1 10 on item 2 12 on items 3 through 6 11 on item 7 and 12 on 8 through 13. That is passed thank you. Thank you all of it talked about I'd like to change my vote on item 2 to a no thank you I don't think that changes would come on that it's 9 so the matter still passes thank you.
 the finance personnel of the record. Thank you, Your Honor. The first item is a lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Human Services, Rockford Housing Authority for 653 Ranger Street for Head Start program. Item two was laid over. Item three is a sale of property at 200 North Johnston, Henrietta School, the Carl E. Pond Spooner Home for $1,000. And item four is a sale of property for part of the vacant lot at 1015 First Avenue to Mark Donbaugh for $1,500.
 move says perhaps suspension rules on those two thank you there's been a motion second to spend the rules on Roman overall nine C one three and four of those in favor please act I post no I said it plays my for passage that is our for passages their discussion all the men are sorry mr. Hayes 12 eyes number three and four require 12 eyes thank you
 thank you all the time to kill yeah I want to thank God the legal department stay out for working with that call on home they have been in this community for over 50 years I had to provide a valuable service and the most important thing is they want to stay in the community and they want to continue to provide services I do appreciate that you
 on the numbers questions and concerns and I hope they were answered to her satisfaction and I think this is a win-win situation we were going to dislocate them to begin with off of what state street and I want to thank my girls because he did a fabulous job of
 Thank you. Any further discussion on the maneuver? Thank you. Yes, I just want to reiterate, I have great admiration for Carol Pond's Funeral Home. I had nothing against them whatsoever. I was just against the amount that it was being sold for, and I am voting for it today. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Herge? Connell?
 Thompson, Kelly? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Feech? Aye. Elliott? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. That's 13 on item 1, 13 on item 4, and 12 on item 3. Thank you, matters, all pass. Any further business before the council?
 Motion to adjourn. There's been a motion. Is there a second? There's been a motion. Second adjourned. All those in favor of adjourning the meeting, please see the focus saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Oh, sorry. That was fantastic. No, I thought I stopped. Oh, I thought you were going down. Because I got a cough in that head and I don't know.