Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. Shirelli. Twelve ayes. All right, so we'll start off with the invocation by Chaplain Kenneth Henley of Free Will Baptist Church. Alderman Irvins. Alderman Irvins, would you mind the invocation? Make it short.
 Heavenly Father, we just thank you, Lord God, for this opportunity to come together again, Lord God, and deliberate on city business, Lord God. I pray, Father, that tonight you find favor and you pour out wisdom and guidance and instructions, Lord God. I thank you for all that you've done up until this point as far as protecting our first responders, Lord God, and just taking care of our people, Lord God. I thank you, Lord God, and I ask that you continue to shine your face on us. In Jesus' name we pray, amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. So first we have the acceptance of the journal, the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on August 31st, 2020. Call everybody here right now. Clerk, could you call the roll?
 Durkee, here. Logeman, here. Toonberg, here. Frost, here. Hervey, here. Irvins, here. Thompson-Kelly, Rose. Rose. Beach, here. Quinones, here. Hanley, here. Chiarelli, here. 12 present. Thank you.
 So moving next to the acceptance of the journal, the journal proceeding item number one, the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on August 31st, 2020. Second. And do we need a roll call for this one right now? Roll call. Clerk. Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye.
 Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. And item number two, Journal of Proceedings for the Strategic Planning Session held on August 31st, 2020. Motion to move. So moved. Second. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Bogeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Ross? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye.
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes. And item number three, journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on September 8, 2020. Is there a motion? Second. Second. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye.
 Aye. Urbans? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. All right, so there are no proclamations this evening. Moving to item three, petitions and communications, planning and development committee. Let's hand it over to Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item under planning and development.
 It is the memorandum from Jennifer Yeager, Community Services Director, regarding the request for resolution to accept the second allocation of supplemental funding to the HUD Emergency Solutions Grant for the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, referred to Planning and Development. Is there a motion on the floor? So moved. There's not a motion for that. Oh, yes. This is communication. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you.
 Item B, Code and Regulations Committee. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you. One item, the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on October 14, 2020, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on October 26, 2020. I refer that to Codes and Regs, Your Honor. Thank you. And the item C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is a memorandum from La Pequeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a request.
 for a fine reduction for the property located at 4518 cleveland avenue reducing the fine from 22 500 to maximum 750 dollars to be referred to finance and personnel committee number two is a memorandum from john posey police business manager
 regarding the acceptance of fiscal year 2020 United States Department of Justice Edward Byrne Memorial Jag Grant Award. And this item will also refer to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Move to public speakers. I'll remind each speaker that we each have three minutes to speak. First up is Ari Perez of Rockford, Illinois. You have three minutes. I have three minutes starting now? Starting now. Okay.
 Hello, hello Daniel, Daniel O'Shea. It's nice to actually see you, even though you're a terrible person. What I would like to address is a couple incidents that happened today, today. First, we'll start with Kyle Saunders and the Gestapo tactics that he used outside this building today.
 He came up despite no entrance being blocked, despite no pathway being blocked, despite no entrance, no nothing. You can get to the door, you can get to the mailbox, you can drop off for your water bill, you can do all of that. We ain't talking to nobody going inside the building, we didn't talk to no employees, but he wants to come over and say, if we do not move in 10 minutes, we are going to be arrested.
 That's Kyle Saunders, the director of public works from this building. He wants to come out and make the designated protest zone that your officers, Dan O'Shea, Daniel, that your officers, including Carla Redd, kenneled us in today, making it impossible to move without running directly into the police and wouldn't allow us to enter the building and actually had officers, was it four or five officers standing outside that door so we could not enter a public building.
 At which point do you stop becoming a citizen? At which point do you stop becoming a civilian and just become a protester? At what point do you lose your rights as a citizen because you're a protester? At which point can you not enter public buildings anymore because you're a protester? Where the fuck does that make sense? How does that work? I can't go into City Market because I'm a protester. I can't go into City Hall because I'm a protester.
 Next, let's talk about Carla Rett. Let's talk about Carla Rett and some of the words that she chose today. And I'm sorry, this is a little bit off the top because I just got out of jail about an hour ago. So Carla Rett, let's talk about some of the words that she said. She said, what did she say? What's the first thing she said today? She said, yeah, I talk a lot. This is her words. So don't be mad at me. She said, yeah, I talk a lot of shit because I know how to back it up.
 Yeah, Carla, the person that you shot knows you know how to back it up. We know through your excessive force at City Market that you know how to back it up. The problem is you like to back it up. The problem is you find ways to back it up. The problem is you find ways to use that excessive force. Next, she dared people to come outside the designated protest zone. She said her words again, and I quote, come outside the zone and see what happens. Come outside and see what happens.
 Then she said to me directly, she's my arresting officer from six hours ago, seven hours ago. She said, if you want to go, let's go. If you want to go, let's go. Then she blocked my entrance.
 to the designated protest zone, grabbed me by the shoulders, pushed me back, denying my interest to the designated protest zone, and put her neck, put her hand on my neck, choked me, and pushed me into the flower bed, then threw me to the ground. That's your officer. That's your BFF, your best buddy, Kyler Red.
 what is going to be held accountable because when she shot somebody the corrupt Winnebago County Integrity Task Force found her not guilty and I even though she choked me you will find her not guilty again because only your job as the police chief is only to protect Carla Redd and other protesters because you don't give a fuck. Next speaker is Mr. John Tech Brantley of Rockford Illinois. Mr. Brantley you have three minutes.
 Good evening all you persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm going to start out with Proverbs.
 Proverbs 17 verses 28 highlights several benefits of keeping quiet. First, it's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen, learn, and to give you something in common with those who are wiser. Make sure to pause, to think, and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something important to say.
 Coming up this year, Wednesday, we are having a meeting at the Booker Washington Center. I had a meeting with the mayor, and what our topic is going to be about is our at-risk youth and working with our moms, our single moms, and our at-risk youth, because some of our moms are not equipped to do home schooling.
 The school been talking about it. We got Rockland housing authority on board having a meeting with the mayor. I know the mayor father passed away. So a mayor party getting in touch with either his chief of staff to uh, turn that meeting. Dr uh, lemon from the Lutheran school is planning on being there when our biggest concerns is right now. In the past I talked about wearing the mask. How can you tell a criminal from
 A customer. Well now in the school settings and some of our kids are famous for you know telling a lie when they don't want their wedding mask to cover up their nose and I also want to ask the two arguments that work at the school if you'll be able to attend our meeting Wednesday at 12 o'clock. Because we're not just talking about meeting, we're talking about a solution. And I want to bring up about coronavirus. When our youth, when our youth
 One of our youth in Orton Keyes, I'm going to use for example, said they had a stomach upset because they didn't want to wear the mask. Guess what? They sent them home for 14 days, quarantined the whole family. All the people that's in this classroom get quarantined. That was a bogus lie. Innocent people's getting quarantined for no reason at all. Had a youth at Fairgrounds said he had a headache because he didn't want to wear the mask.
 they send him home quarantine the family and then quarantine everyone that was in his classroom. How can you tell whether the youth is telling the truth or lie or whether or not if it's truly coronavirus or if it's not coronavirus. So now these moms is not want to send their kids back to school because they don't because the coronavirus and DCSF they feel for that. Also ask
 Dan O'Shea, we sent them a letter for them to have a representative there, because not only are we going to be talking about the active school program, but our youth have a deep dislike towards the police. The police have a deep dislike towards our youth. We need to find a common ground to bring our youth and the police together where we can have a meeting where we meet, and we have a meeting where we're talking positive and not just at a meeting at a shouting match or cussing people out and what have you, that type of meeting.
 we would not have. The only difference between the civil rights movement of the past was that over 200 people... Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Okay. Can I just finish with one more thing before I go, John? Guess what? I got my letter today, and so now I officially have my 501c3. So I'm on board. All right?
 In the past, I went to $3,000. So imagine what I can go through, now I get the 501c3. I'll be talking to you. Thanks, John. Thank you for your time. Peace out. Next speaker is Mr. Brendan Rabbit of Rockton, Illinois. Mr. Rabbit, you have three minutes. What's up, Danny boy? You might remember me from when you refused to answer my questions in regards to the excessive force that your officers use.
 Today I'm going to talk about an incident from the last city market in which Rockford police officers, whom later I identified as Officer Gallagher, Officer Ivy, Officer Welsh and M. Parker, refused to take any information from me in regards to an assault on a member of the press who was instigated by an off-duty police officer. They refused to let anyone talk to her, do anything in regards to what happened. They also refused to identify...
 an undercover officer who assaulted myself as I was attempting to document the situation. Supervisors refused to take any information about that and just only took the one side. My question is, this city constantly talks about things that happen outside of Rockford and their police departments, yet everybody in the city government of Rockford and the police department of Rockford stay silent about what's going on in our own backyard.
 How come we have so much energy to be able to talk about what goes on outside of here, yet nothing, nothing just nothing happens? The same Gestapo tactics that we saw this morning have been used all summer consistently. People are being followed outside of these protests and people are having police officers put up in front of their house for what? Expressing their First Amendment. And on top of it, they put people in these designated protest zones
 and only for the police to just come into those zones and arrest people anyways. How is that supposed to work? That's all I got to say. Next speaker is Sky Garcia of Rockford, Illinois. We'll go to the next one. Speaker Jody Williams of Rockford, Illinois. Is it Williams? Yep, that's fine. Right there. Hello. Good evening, counsel. My name is Jody Williams, and I am the president of ATU Local 1333.
 We are the City Transit drivers and we are here to discuss the safety. Last week when Governor Pritzker implemented the changes of Region 1, ATU Local 1333, thought and felt that we would as well have changes made to provide safety to our passengers as well as our members. Over half of our passengers, sorry, over half of our passengers are close to, if not elderly.
 We have ADA passengers. We have health conditions. We have cancer, diabetes, obesity, mental health. We have special needs. We have mothers going to appointments with their children. We have homeless staying on our buses to be dry, safe. When it's hot outside, warm when it's cold. We're in a capsule. We are doing 28 to 32 passengers, up to
 28 to 32 passengers and that is the limit. We have nine passenger, nine drivers, sorry, nine drivers who have had COVID. That is a huge percent of our drivers. That's 10% of our members. They are my brothers. They are my sisters. And when the members who have had COVID have a passenger that's on our bus that refuses to keep their mask on and we cannot do nothing about it,
 When they have a member that's coughing and sneezing, and you hear them coming over the radio in a panic, please help me get this passenger off my bus. Because they've had it. They've been there. And they're still there. It's not going away for the ones who have had it. We need help. We need help as ATU Local 1333. City bus drivers need safety. We need implementation.
 that we don't have 28, 29, 32 passengers in a capsule. We are in a bubble. We have no HVAC system. I don't care what's been said. We don't have it. We need safety. We need help because we're not getting it. No one's came in to help transit. We don't get an N95. We get this. We get a couple gloves. We are asking you, Council, to please
 please help transit help us be safe we have families to go home to ms williams that's three minutes thank you thank you um we'll go back to sky garcia sky garcia not here um next we'll move on to new committee reports um under item 5b code and regulation committee alderman shirely thank your honor
 I got several items this evening. The first, the committee recommends approval of the road dedication plat for Brookwood subdivision. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an amendment to section 2-31 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance, Council Rules of Procedure and Order of Business. Three, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval
 That traffic on Collins Street be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of Reed Avenue.
 Four, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a 30 mile an hour speed limit restriction on Christina Street from 15th Avenue to Blackhawk Park Avenue. Thus repealing the existing 35 mile an hour speed limit on Christina Street from 15th Avenue to Blackhawk Park Avenue. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval
 to establish a 30 mile an hour speed limit on Blackhawk Park Avenue from Christina Street to Kishwaukee Street, thus repealing the existing 35 mile an hour speed limit on Blackhawk Park Avenue from Christina Street to Kishwaukee Street. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to prohibit commercial sales, commercial vehicles on Springbrook Road from Spring Creek Road to Perryville Road.
 Number seven.
 The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish stop control at the following intersections. Gardiner Avenue stopping for Crosby Street, Highland Avenue stopping for Crosby Street, London Avenue stopping for Crosby Street, Rome Avenue stopping for Crosby Street, Rockford Avenue stopping for Crosby Street, Dawson Avenue stopping for Crosby Street,
 Doherty Place stopping for Crosby Street. Reagan Street stopping for Crosby Street North. Reagan Street stopping for Crosby Street South. Smith Avenue stopping for Crosby Street. Crosby Street stopping for Longwood Street. Crosby Street stopping for Prospect Street. And Crosby Street stopping for Calvin Park Boulevard.
 Number eight the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation that no action be taken for the following traffic items establishing two-way stop control on Madison Street at Y Boulevard and Establishing four-way stop control at the intersection of Ellis Avenue and Douglas Street thus repealing the two-way stop control at the intersection of Ellis Avenue and Douglas Street and
 Number nine, committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval of a special use permit for an auto dealership at 1430 Kishwaukee Street, subject to conditions. Now move on to page four.
 Number 10, committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a variation to reduce the established front yard setback from 40 feet to 33 feet. For a front porch addition at 1211 Lundvall Avenue, subject to conditions. Number 11, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store.
 retail store at 3831 Auburn Street, subject to amended conditions. Number 12, the committee recommends sustaining LTAB's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store at 1312 7th Street.
 Subject to conditions. Number 13, committee recommends sustaining LTAB approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant, bar and grill at 6330 East State Street, subject to conditions. Number 14, committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the modification of an existing liquor license to allow full package liquor sales in conjunction with a convenience store.
 at 513 Toner Avenue, subject to conditions. Number 15, the committee recommends sustaining LTAP approval for A, the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the liquor store, and B, the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the liquor store, and C, the denial of video gaming at 922 Kilburn Avenue, subject to conditions. Separate 11, Your Honor.
 Motion on the floor to separate item 11. Is there a second? Place all those up for passage other than what the separation is. I'll need a second. Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, this is Frank Beach. Yes. I'd like to offer an amendment on B2. Alderman Beach, offer an amendment on B2. That's right, Roman numeral five, letter B, number two. Got it.
 Would you like me to read that? Yes, Alderman Beach. I move to amend the committee report by deleting the proposed statement that would require, excuse me, that would remove the requirement that committee reports be signed by the members. For this amendment, all committee reports would continue to be signed by members of the committee before they're forwarded to the council. That is the self-substance of the amendment. Okay.
 i'm going to need a second on that your honor is there a second could he repeat that second alderman beach could you uh repeat that or do we have that in writing i have that from the legal director there might be a copy in the council chambers might be available alderman thompson kelly would you like alderman beach to repeat yeah because i didn't understand what his amendment was um open thompson kelly uh uh uh initially
 The recommendation was to remove the requirement for aldermen to sign committee reports. Right. And this amendment was to remove that restriction so that all committee reports would continue to be signed by aldermen before they move forward. Okay. Any other? And I second. Alderman Hervey, that's a second from you, correct? Yes. Okay. What committee? Comments? Comments?
 Alderman Frost I was just asked Alderman Beach if we could provide maybe a little bit of an analysis as to why they would like to keep this going forward like this because I especially I mean obviously during COVID it hasn't happened but
 It is onerous on staff to sometimes have to track us down, but to get a signature on these items when when they've been Passed in committee their video recorded their audible recorded What the rationale would be well, I certainly I certainly appreciate that that thought Alderman Frost, but you see if for example and it has happened from time to time that you question your vote and
 We're going to have to go back to the archives, pull up the video recording and listen to all of it in order to see what we really did vote. And I've not seen I've not seen where it's been a problem because every week when I sit there on the page or the other gals come over with the committee reports assigned and I just sign them.
 And I haven't seen where that's been a hardship. But I think it's very important that us as aldermen sign off on the committee report that's going to go to file. That's my only thought. Thank you. You're welcome, sir. Any other questions or comments on the floor? Alderman Hervey, if I might make a comment, please. Yes, Alderman Hervey, go ahead. Thank you. I understand both sides of the issue on this with...
 having to take extra time to do something but I would be concerned that we not make changes related to COVID because and I'm obviously one of the people who for health reasons and risk factors
 Hopefully by the beginning of November, early November, this is going to be over and I'll be able to be there. But it's going to end. And I never like to call down the ship when, you know, there's a problem with a couple things in the crew. So I'd hope that we not make changes like this that...
 you know if if a citizen for example wanted to go back and see a committee report and see how alderman voted on it out of committee i don't want to have to tell them well you need to go back and search through the tape or search through an audio recording so you can see
 What happened on that? I'd like for them to be able to get that piece of paper through FOIA. And that was my concern, that it could make FOIA requests more onerous on staff because of the work that they would have to do. So that was my reason for supporting not making a change.
 and those of us who do need who do need the um the extra time and as alderman i think it's sort of incumbent upon us to make sure that we make ourselves available i try to get there within a day or two of their requesting me to come and give them a signature on those thank you alderman hervey um any other questions or comments all right i think there's a motion and a second on the floor for the amendment um clerk could you call the
 Roll for the amendment. Durkee? No. Logerman? No. Thunberg? No. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Rose? No. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? No. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye.
 All right, so Item B2, the amendment passes. So next, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, you wanted to separate out Item 11. So we'll vote on all the items except for Item 11 right now from the codes and regs. I'm sorry, I had a couple. Go ahead, Alderman. Your Honor, I had a couple of questions on Item 6.
 This is the one where we'd be prohibiting commercial vehicles on Springbrook. What are the guidelines for prohibiting commercial traffic on a street? I know this has come up before. I know it's not going to affect delivery vehicles and things of that sort, but what's the criteria for prohibiting commercial traffic?
 Traffic on the street.
 Maybe Director Saunders? Okay. Thank you. All I'm going to refer to is Mr. Carter. Jeremy Carter mentioned last week the reason behind this recommendation through Traffic Commission is Springbrook was identified in past Code and Regulations Committees as being a through street. It was designated a through street after kind of cleaning up some of our city limits and the
 the status of that stretch of Spring Brook. In this case, requests came to the Traffic Commission to leave the through-street designation but eliminate the commercial vehicle provision, seeing that there were additional requirements
 there were additional streets within the area, i.e. Spring Creek, i.e. Perryville, that could handle that additional commercial vehicle traffic. So in this case, I think Jeremy, and I know that Jeremy still stands to follow up with you, but in this case felt that the arterials in close proximity to Spring Brook were able to handle the additional commercial vehicle traffic, thus made the recommendation to the traffic. Okay, thank you.
 Any other questions Alderman Herby? Let's see. I had, let me see if I had any others on. There were quite a long list. No, that was it. Thank you. All right. Any other questions from members? All right, so excluding item 11, which will be separated out. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye.
 Irving? Let's see, no on number nine and 14 and I am the remainder. Irving? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? No on nine, aye on the remainder. Rose? Aye. Beach? No on 11 and 14, I am the rest. Can you repeat that? I'm sorry.
 Yes ma'am. No on 11. No on 14. Aye on the rest. We're not voting on item 11 right now, but I'll mark down a no for item 14. Alderman Quinones? Aye. Alderman Hanley? Aye. Alderman McNeely? Give me just a second here. Aye on all.
 No on 14, aye on the remaining. Alderman Chiarelli. Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 13 ayes. Item number 9, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item 10, 13 ayes, 12 and 13, 13 ayes. Item number 14, 10 ayes, 3 noes. And item 15, 13 ayes.
 Thank you clerk Alderman Thompson Kelly, did you want to address item number 11? Yes, I did. Thank you your honor. I appreciate the consideration I want to thank the legal department as well as the chairman of the Colton regs for holding this out for me until I met with lawyers and district manager of all these This is a suggestion that they made to us for having these conditions for one year and
 and then revisit the police cause and the situation, and it's only for beer and wine. So I want to thank the staff for having the patience, the legal department for working this out and the chairman of Colson Rex. Thank you. So are we moving forward with item 11 then? Clerk, could you please call a vote on item 11? Berkey.
 logan hi toonberg hi ross hi herbie hi irvin hi thompson kelly hi rose hi beach hi hanley hi mcneely hi shirely hi 13 eyes thank you thank you clerk uh thank you alderman shirley 15 items uh we'll move over to uh finance and personnel committee alderman frost with two items
 Thank you, Your Honor. There are two items this evening. Number one, the committee recommends approval of a voucher of the amount of $7,355,166.78 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee held on September 28, 2020.
 number two the committee recommends approval of the proposed sales city-owned property located at 327 foster avenue under the moto own program the moto participant is clayton sackwell jr the property has been maintained for two years the cost of the recipient to purchase this moto owned property is zero dollars the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance i place those two items before you thank you is there a motion on the floor there's no motion required no
 Okay. No motion required? Okay. Clerk, could you call the vote? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Urbans. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes.
 Thank you. And moving to motions and resolutions, codes and regulation committee, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you. It looks like we just have one this evening. The committee recommends approval of the request for permission to place for sale the city-owned property located at 1123 7th Street pursuant to state law 65ILCS 510.
 11-76-1 and 5-11-76-2 place that up for passage is there a motion on the floor no motion required again I'll get it um clerk could you please call the roll Durkee aye Logerman aye Toonberg aye Frost aye Herbie aye Irvins aye Thompson Kelly aye Rose aye Beach
 All right, you know, and as he and Lee I make me Lee. All right. Shirley 13. Nice. Thank you. Moving to finance and personnel committee alderman frost.
 Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the contract amendment for the fire alarm monitoring to NORCOM public safety communications of Elmhurst. The amount of $120,100 for annual maintenance and equipment cost based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four optional one year extensions. The funding source is the fire department operating budget.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of an award of non-competitive contract for generator and switch gear services to Alter Fair Cat of Elmhurst for an estimated annual contract amount of $35,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extension options. The funding sources is the water fund operating budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of an award of bid for the South 5th Street water main replacement to Stenstrom Excavating of Rockford.
 in the amount of $737,008. The project is estimated to be completed by May 21 of 2021. The funding source is the Water Replacement Improvement Account.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of an award of engineering agreement for 1st Street and 2nd Street over Union Pacific Railroad bridges to Hanson professional services of rockers. In the amount of 194,374 dollars. The contract duration is 2020 and 2021. the funding source is motor fuel tax funds. To be fully reimbursed 80% by the and 20% by the railroad. No city match is required.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for use of motor fuel tax funds for preliminary engineering for the 1st and 2nd Street over Union Pacific Railroad bridges in the amount of $600,000. Number six, the committee recommends approval of an application for Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program grant, Highcrest Road, the estimated...
 project amount is two million four hundred ninety six thousand nine hundred eighty one dollars of which the city's responsibility is estimated to be four hundred ninety nine thousand three hundred ninety six dollars the application is due by november 2nd 2020 with an award with award notification expected in the spring of 2021. number seven the committee recommends approval of an application for illinois transportation enhancement program grant
 for the riverwalk preliminary engineering the uh the phase one engineering costs are estimated to be four hundred thousand dollars of which the city's responsibility would be eighty thousand dollars the application is due by november 2nd 2020 with an award notification also expected in the spring of 2021. i place these seven items before you thank you alderman frost any discussion
 Alderman Thompson? Yes. We'll go Alderman Thompson. Kelly first. On item number one, this is a contract amendment for $120,000. Can Chief put the amendment for $120,000 in? Oh, Chief Berkson, go ahead. So then just over to the new fire alarm monitoring system...
 system that we're on is this whole line system now that we have roughly about 115-120 customers in the city so we eliminated that component and that $120,000 would be for purchases to buy the monitor heads for next year but we do charge a lease fee to bring that money back and then also on top of us eliminating all the phone lines covers that expenses okay thank you you're welcome Alderman Beach yeah
 Thank you. Thank you very much. I have this question. I spoke to Jeremy regarding this transportation enhancement program, specifically about the high-cost portion. And I was under the impression that there was going to be a meeting forthcoming in the next couple of weeks for that neighborhood group to decide whether or not it becomes a yes or no.
 And in talking with Jeremy, I was under the impression that if it was a no, then they were going forward with it. Well, if that would be the case, how does it justify us to vote for the money tonight without actually having that meeting? That's what I asked last week, and I need a little more clarification this evening. Thank you. Director Saunders. Thank you, Alderman. Alderman Beach.
 Jeremy did mention last week that we have a public meeting set October 21st. It's going to be a virtual public meeting for residents within that area. We are on a very tight deadline. The deadline for this grant application is November 2nd. So at this point, we are advancing this application through.
 We will certainly take into consideration feedback we receive on the 21st, but given the tight window of getting this application submitted, we do feel that we're going to be advancing this through tonight. May I have a follow-up question, sir? Go ahead, Alderman Beach. If the residents were to not want that, would that be taken out of the program and the rest of it would continue, or how would that work?
 So we, Alderman, thank you Alderman, Alderman Beach, we, as I mentioned, we do have that public meeting set for the 21st. You know, we're certainly, you know, certainly going to appreciate the feedback they receive. We are in a very tight window for November 2nd. So at this point, we do plan on, subject to approval tonight, advancing with that application submittal.
 It is a very highly competitive grant. Obviously, we've done some significant preliminary engineering work up to this point. We've heard a lot of positive feedback as well as some concerns, and that's what we're hoping that we can vet out on October 21st. One last question, Your Honor, if I may. Go ahead. So on that meeting on the 21st, I'm understanding, Kyle, that if the people were to be opposed to it,
 We're going to go ahead with it anyway. Correct?
 So we do plan on submitting for it on November 2nd. So we're certainly looking for feedback on the 21st. Again, you know, the scope of that meeting on the 21st is to go over what we found during the preliminary engineering work, talk about all of the alternate alignments, and then ultimately lay out kind of the project schedule in terms of, obviously, the submittal deadline, November 2nd, and then hopes of hearing back on that submission early spring 2021. Thank you.
 That wasn't totally the answer to my question, but did I say the question properly? That we're going to do it regardless of what the input gives us. Swing it over to Administrator Cagnoni. Thank you, Alderman Logeman. I'll be happy to answer that question, Alderman Beach. The recommendation from staff is that we move forward with the project immediately.
 Um, that's based on, you know, the, the long range, uh, plans related to bicycles and pedestrians. That we have reviewed as well as city council's previous approval of engineering design for the corridor, but certainly it's at the discretion of city council. Um, should you want to, to move forward, but as our recommendation, um, understanding that we're completing the engineering work that we submit, um,
 for the the grant to the Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program or ITEP thank you any other questions Oldman Beach well I tell you how I feel about this if we're going to do it regardless what is the point of the meeting and I'm all for this the possibility of hooking up this transportation enhancement program but I'm also sensitive
 to the many people who have called and said they're opposed to it for a number of reasons. But I guess the point I'm trying to make is, is if we've already decided we're going to do it, well, why don't we just sit back and just do it? You know, rather than say we're going to have this meeting, because it sounds to me like it won't make any difference, except giving people a chance to express themselves, and we're still going to do it. And unless I'm hearing that call, you know what I'm saying? I don't want to feel that way, but that's what I'm thinking.
 Mr. Cagnoni Thank you Alderman The purpose of the public meeting is to engage the public related to design concerns and see where we can accommodate their concerns with the overall design of the improvements The public meeting wasn't set to determine whether the project would move forward or not Okay thank you Alderman Thunberg Thank you Mayor Protem
 I have been in contact with plenty of constituents on this, on both sides of the issue. I will assure you that at that
 Zoom meeting. Unfortunately, I was hoping that we'd be able to have an in-person meeting Similar to what we did down at Brendan Wood in Chelsea for the traffic calming measure We had that meeting at our saviors. So unfortunately due to the latest round of mandates were unable to do that. So but I am interested to hear from more individuals on that at that meeting and
 I think there are, well, no, I think I know that there are some misnomers out there as far as what this multi-use path consists of, how it will be placed,
 And so I am looking forward to seeing, which I have not yet myself seen the engineering study and seeing as city administrator Cagnoni pointed out that we can quell some of those concerns and issues. There are absolutely some misnomers out there and that need to be straightened out.
 But I assured the constituents that their voices could be heard within that community meeting. So thank you. Thank you, Alderman Thunberg. Any further discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No on six and seven. Aye on the remainder. Irvins. No on six and seven. Aye on the remainder.
 Thompson, Kelly? No on six and seven, aye on the remainder. Rose? Aye. Beach? No on six and seven, aye on the remainder. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No. On all? Yes, on all. Shirely? Aye. Items one, two, three, four, five, 12 ayes, one no. Items six and seven, eight ayes, five nos.
 Thank you, Clerk. We'll move on to new business under Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. We have several ordinances. So the first is an ordinance approving the amendment to Section 2-31 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance Council Rules, a procedure in order of business. Number two, an ordinance approving traffic on Collins Street to be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of Reed Avenue.
 Number three is an ordinance establishing a 30 mile an hour speed limit restriction on Christina Street from 15th Avenue to Blackhawk Park Avenue, thus repealing the existing 35 mile an hour speed limit on Christina Street from 15th Avenue to Blackhawk Park Avenue. Number four is an ordinance establishing a 30 mile an hour speed limit on Blackhawk Park Avenue from Christina Street to Kishwaukee Street.
 Thus repealing the existing 35 mile an hour speed limit on Black Hawk Park Avenue from Christina Street to Kishwaukee Street. Number five is an ordinance prohibiting the commercial vehicles on Springbrook Road from Spring Creek Road to Perryville Road.
 Number six is an ordinance establishing stop control at the following intersections a Gardner Avenue stopping for Crosby Street B Highland Avenue stopping for Crosby Street C London Avenue stopping for Crosby Street and
 Rome Avenue stopping for Crosby Street, Rockford Avenue stopping for Crosby Street, Dawson Avenue stopping for Crosby Street, Doherty Place stopping for Crosby Street, Reagan Street stopping for Crosby Street,
 Reagan Street stopping for Crosby Street South. Smith Avenue stopping for Crosby Street. Crosby Street stopping for Longwood Street. Crosby Street stopping for Prospect Street. And Crosby Street stopping for Calvin Park Boulevard. Number seven is an ordinance approving the special use permit for an auto dealership.
 At 1430 Kishwaukee Street, number eight is an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the established front yard setbacks from 40 feet to 33 feet for a front porch at 1211 Lundville Avenue. Number nine is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store retail store at 3831 Auburn Street.
 10 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store at 1312 7th Street. Number 11 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant, bar and grill at 6330 East State Street. Number 12 is an ordinance approving the modification to an existing liquor license to allow full package liquor sale in conjunction with the convenience store at 513 Toner Avenue.
 Number 13 is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor conjunction with a liquor store at 922 Kilburn Avenue And number 14 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with liquor store at 922 Kilburn Avenue And I believe that's all of them. Yep. I placed those up for passages Thank You Alderman Chiarelli any discussion?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Let's see. No on number seven. No on number 12. Aye on the remainder. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. No on 12. Aye on the rest. Quinones.
 Aye. Hanley? Aye. Aye. McNeely? Aye. Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 13 ayes. Item number 7, 12 ayes, 1 no. Items 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 ayes. Item number 12, 11 ayes, 2 noes, 13 and 14, 13 ayes. Thank you, clerk. Moving to the Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost.
 Thank you. There's one matter, which is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property located at 327 Foster Avenue under the Moe to Own program. The Moe to Own participant is Clayton, Claiborne Sockwell Jr. The property has been maintained for two years. The cost to the recipient to purchase the Moe to Own property is $0. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Turkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 Kirby aye Irvin's aye Thompson Kelly Rose aye Beach. All right, you know this family are McNeely aye sure 13 eyes. Thank you clerk move to officers reports and
 Alderman Rose. Real quick, I wanted to share a really cool event that happened yesterday and some of the groups that came together to do it. Yesterday, we, on Sunday, did the first ever Mel Anderson Slow Roll. It was an event that...
 A community organization known as Northwest Neighbors decided they wanted to host on the Northwest End. They're an organization that is trying to address really four or five main issues. Some of them being violence, some of them being youth action, helping seniors. There's a few other ones that they have as goals.
 They partnered up with a lot of community organizations and received a lot of help in order to host the event. And I wanted to share real quick, there were some financial sponsors, IBW Local 364, the Downtown Embassy Suites, Coil Kiley Insurance, Swedish American donated 100 bike helmets to give to young kids who received bikes. There was obviously Northwest Neighbors who organized the event.
 Northwest Community Center held the event and offered up all of their property and tables and chairs and just all of their resources.
 One organization really came through for us. They're known as the Bike Elves and just a really neat and awesome organization. It's a group of about four or five people throughout the Rockford region who collect bikes and basically refurbish them. And they were just,
 Just they came through for us. They came through for a lot of neighborhood kids. They gave away 85 bikes to area kids and so seeing you know youngsters as young as about four years old to a
 1213 14 years old walking away with a bike seeing them with their smiles on their faces, even though I mean, it was hard to tell. But you could see their cheeks were lighting up when they came off with with their bikes because they had masks on. It was just.
 phenomenal on what they were able to accomplish and bring 85 bikes for those kids. So we also had involved iBike Rockford, which Ashley Sarver did a fantastic job in getting them out to come and help with that. The Rockford Police Department put on a bike rodeo. Two officers were there helping kids, you know, just try and learn how to ride. The Rockford Fire Department was there out on the road.
 path they met with a few rounds of people who went out on the Mel Anderson path.
 Public Works was there Jeremy Carter was there and then of course Rockford Park District helped with some staff I just wanted to thank a few different people who were there that helped organize the event Cap Kathy Johnson Ashley Sarver Steven lock Bowie Denver Bittner Eric Lemon home Tabitha Cruz Reggie and Stella from the Rockford Park District they were phenomenal they helped us quite a bit when working and managing the crowds and
 Nikki Lynch, who works out at the Washington program for the Park District. She was a part of the planning committee. Vicky Fogle. There were more that we probably missed, but it was just such a great event to experience something that we practice social distancing. We took all the measures into account based on the CDC, but seeing kids,
 have that hope in them that um it was just it was something magical so i wanted to say thank you to all of those groups and organizations that came through for us thank you alderman rose seemed like a great event thank you alderman thompson kelly uh yes i would like for us to have a moment of silence for former all former mayor um john mcnamara thank you i also have like to um
 Thank the men and women of the Rockford Park District for going over their 2020 plan with me and discussing future plans. I know we all received email from Ron Clore today, and I wanted to make some of the individuals aware of the fact that
 Carlson when we purchased the land at Carlson and we put that sheet of ice out there We bought enough land to put a second sheet of it Knew that the day was coming that we were going to have to close Riverview because Riverview has been patched for several years So this is in the park district is looking at what they're doing that their survey said that the community said they wanted to do and
 the park district has touched every family organization community in this city there is not an organization or family that hasn't been touched by the services that the rockford park district uh has done so i want to thank them for listening to what this community wants and acting upon it thank you thank you alderman council kelly uh alderman mcneely thank you mayor tim i want to thank the public works director kyle saunders
 Excuse me. And the Deputy Chief, Winsand, I have put forth requests last week and all of them have been addressed. And residents are quite pleased with the Public Works Department as well as the Police Department. So thank you very much. Any other officers' reports? Oh, Alderman Thunberg. We'll get the long one out of the way first, Alderman Durkee. Thank you.
 I will keep this brief because I could probably go on for about an hour. So you can all thank me afterwards for taking a brief Cliff Notes version of this. But my disgust is 110% with the latest mandate. Bars and restaurants were singled out, picked on. They are dying a slow death. I can't tell you the number of owners that have reached out to me.
 Their livelihood, as one put it, is being stripped. Everything that they've put their money into, their heart into, is vanishing right in front of their eyes. The time it's gonna take for Rockford to make up for this, I think the only business that is gonna profit from this is probably that store called Bygone Brands. And if you don't know what it is, look it up.
 I think there's gonna be a lot of shirts being printed, unfortunately, with a lot of the names of these businesses that are never gonna come back. So I would encourage, I would like to hear from our health department director if that individual would be so inclined to come before city council at some point. I would encourage the bar and restaurant owners to attend as well.
 and i would uh i would like to say to them stay strong and this alderman as well as many of us uh here around the horseshoe support you 100 percent and uh and we'll do as much as we can and the power and ability that we have uh to do to keep you in business thank you thank you alderman tunberg alderman durkee and then alderman neely yeah thank you i um
 will disagree with alderman Thompson Kelly about the park district. Um, I'll sort of double down on my comments last week. Uh, they're acting in a silo. They're not consulting. I don't know who they consult with. I w I was pleased to know that they're, uh, considering a sports core, um, on the Southwest side of Rockford because I read it in the Rockford register star. So I'm really glad we have the Rockford register star, but unfortunately, unfortunately, um,
 uh jay sandeen i mean you look at a project like that and we have planning and development people behind me who can leverage different things as they are developed and you just don't do that in a silo so i disagree with it and i actually still believe that the river ice house needs to stay open and i will dovetail on alderman thunberg's remarks i've never seen anything so arbitrary when it comes to public health
 I don't quite get it. And I've raised this question before, and that is this percent positivity rate. I have no idea where this came from. I don't know what it means. Right now, Mayor Cuomo is shutting down parts of New York for a 3% positivity rate. So, I mean, what happens when they reach? Do everybody leave New York? I don't know. Percent positivity rate, to me, is a meaningless statistic.
 Basically, you can drive, the health department director provides us with numbers of positive cases of people tested. If less people are being tested and you have a certain amount of people being positive, it's going to be artificially elevated. So the best thing that the restaurant owners could do right now is to contact everybody who's healthy to go down to the testing centers and all get tested.
 Because what's going to happen is the positivity rate will go down. But the incidence has not changed. Incidence of a disease is the number of cases per susceptible population. That is the appropriate statistic. I'm sorry, prevalence. Prevalence is the number of cases per susceptible people in a given population. I find it also interesting that we don't include elements of Janesville and Beloit. Apparently, COVID stops at the border.
 Even though we exchange populations by work, people are going to leave our city and they're going to go into Beloit.
 And so we will cross that COVID doesn't respect the border. Incidence is the number of positive cases per susceptible population over a given period of time. That's the number that should be used. Percent positivity rate is meaningless. So if people want to eat in Rockford, all they have to do is go get tested. Every healthy person in Rockford, go get tested and the positivity rate will artificially drop. Meanwhile, the prevalence and incidence will not change.
 It is what it is. And so the statistic that's being used, I just don't understand. And I have actually Google searched this percent positivity rate, trying to find out who made it valid. I can't find it. If anybody here, anybody around can find where that validity of that test and the liability of that test has been established, I'd love to see it. But remember, we started all this business,
 You can't prevent the spread of the disease. You can only slow it down. Eventually, it's going to touch a lot of folks, tragically. Tragically, people have died from it. But I agree with Chad Alderman Thunberg that we're killing off. I mean, so the virus stops at a restaurant simply because they take their mask off? You guys been in Target? This is, you know, this is how I'm wearing my mask in Target.
 Mask wearing isn't even consistent. So I don't understand why in a restaurant you get the virus, but not in a public school. Public school with fifth graders? Is the health department really telling us in her press release that the virus doesn't spread in the schools? Fifth graders? You ever see a fifth grader? Their bathroom? Are you kidding?
 So I really don't get what's going on. I'm extremely frustrated, like Alderman Tuber and like others, and we're watching people lose their jobs. We're watching businesses who may permanently close and may permanently leave our area. We've been struggling to redevelop this area. Over a statistic that I challenge anybody to show me its meaning and its reliability and validity.
 I mean, either they do it or it's got to stop. And we go back to using prevalence of incidents and watching ICU beds and death rates. But something has to change here. I mean, this is out of control. And I agree that the health department needs to come here and explain this. And they also have to explain, again, what I mentioned last week. They're arbitrary enforcement. You know, in one section of town, a cloth chair is bad. In another section of town, a cloth chair is good.
 So, yeah, I think serious investigation needs to be had regarding this health department. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I would like to hear from the city administrator regarding having the health department come before council. I know that I requested this before, and last week I talked with the city administrator about having the health department come as well as the park district come and the library to come before this council to explain a number of things to us.
 So I'd like to hear from the city administrator. Do we know when they're coming? Take notice. Mr. Turnon.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you aldermen. So at the request of a number of aldermen Last week we have reached out to the executive director of the library and are in the process of scheduling That time I need to follow up with the the chair of the committee's to make sure we have we scheduled at the right committee But I would anticipate that we'll be able to accommodate that next week. Um
 We've also reached out to the Health Department to come and present the City Council, and Dr. Martell has agreed to do so, although we have not confirmed a date at this point in time. As it relates to the Park District, the Park District is scheduled to present their proposed plan
 implementation plan at the Park District Board meeting a week from tomorrow so the the 13th which is in conflict with our next meeting and we have not coordinated a request for their attendance at City Council at this point but we'll be happy to continue to follow up on that thank you Alderman Irvins and then Alderman Frost
 Go ahead, Alderman Irvins. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to read a passage here. You know, I just want to throw out there, it requires a lot of nerve and courage to do what I do. One, I already know that people don't like to hear the word of God or hear truth.
 You know, scripture says that in due season they won't even be able to tolerate sound wisdom. And you know, it's unfortunate the things that we see taking place before us. It's almost like we're all with our heads cut off chasing the wind. And you know, it's like the blind leading the blind and all this is broken down. I just want to read a passage though. Here, give me a second. Sorry.
 Find it. It's called Lady Wisdom in the book of Proverbs. It says Lady Wisdom goes out into the street and shouts at the town center. She makes her speech in the middle of the traffic. She takes her stand at the busiest corner. She calls out simpletons. How long will you allow or wallow in your ignorance? Cynics, how long will you feed your cynicism?
 Idols. How long will you refuse to learn? About face. I could revise your lives. Look, I'm ready to pour out my spirit on you. I'm ready to tell you all that I know. As it is, I've called, but you've turned a deaf ear. I've reached out to you, but you've ignored me. Since you laugh at my counsel and make a joke of my advice, how can I take you seriously? I'll turn the table and joke about your troubles. What if the roof fall in?
 and your whole life goes to pieces. What if catastrophe strikes, and there's nothing to show of your life but rumbles and ashes? You will need me then. You'll call for me, but don't expect an answer. No matter how hard you look, you won't find me, because you hated knowledge and had nothing to do with the fear of God, because you won't take my advice,
 and brush aside my offer to train you. Well, you've made your bed, now lay in it. You wanted to own your own, your own way. Now, how do you like it? Don't you see what happens when simpletons and idols carelessly kill complacency and murder? First pay attention to me and then relax. Now you can take it easy. You're in good hands.
 You know, I come on here and I can't tell you how many people have told me, Natavia, stop talking about God. You can't talk about God. Don't pray as much. Don't do this. Don't do that. And it's like, please, people, God is life and death. And that's the end of it. And everything in between is his wisdom. He's the author. He's the finisher.
 He's the beginning, the end, the head, and the tail. And what blows me away as we sit and we try to figure this thing called life out, but don't take any of the counsel that the author of all creation has provided all of mankind. You know, a real simple way of putting it, Bible, basic instructions before leaving earth. We all have to face death. COVID is coming. It's here. People have gotten it. People will get it. Every one of us have a due date. And...
 It just breaks my heart because we're again running around with our heads cut off and it's like where do we find wisdom? How can we find wisdom somebody pointed out because at this point in time? There's nothing but confusion and chaos and so I just encourage All those that have not taken the time to embrace the truth then do so because these are perilous times and the world is searching for something that they're not gonna get and
 And, you know, people are really hurting. And that's my prayer. I try not to be as animate or passionate about it, but I can't help but to look at all the hurting people in the world and see that there's foolishness being presented to them.
 And it's, you know, we talk about not having the money to do this and not having it. What happens to stewardship? God talks about stewardship, being good stewards of the money that that should be given, getting being good stewards of the possessions. It John Tech Bradley come in here every week talking about the have nots. Believe it or not.
 The orphan and the widow are the number ones on God's list. Those that have gone without, it says the sick don't need a doctor. But yet health care has been taken away from the West Side. The mental health system has been taken away from the West Side. The wealthy doesn't need money. But, you know, this thing called greed and hoarding and, you know, selfishness and it's...
 That's really what's ugly. You know, COVID, I could deal with COVID. I could look at COVID. But the fact that people can't love people anymore, the way that God has called us to do, he's given us one commandment. And I don't mean to sit here and preach. I really don't. But it's a tragedy is what's taking place in our nation.
 We live according to the Ten Commandments, which is the old covenant that was made to the children of Israel. We're not them. We're the Gentiles. We've been grafted in. And so we tend to live this condemned life, but we have this life of freedom that we need to enter into and grace that we need to enter into. But everybody feels as though they have to perform. And this performance-based life leads to death. This comes from a lack of understanding of God's word and the promises that God has made to his people.
 Again, I'm not trying to preach. I really am not. But when you taste and you see the goodness of God and you can't ignore the struggle of the world. And so, you know, a lot of these unanswered questions will continue to go unanswered. And God tells us because we haven't pursued his wisdom from the very beginning, you're not going to find it. We're not going to find it. The thing that you can do is says salvation is worked out individually individually.
 Find your relationship with the Father and do your part. Many hands make light work. That's really all I've got to say. Thank you, Alderman Irvin. Alderman Frost. Thank you. You know, we haven't had Prophet Yusuf here for some time, but I wanted to kind of step into one of his roles.
 which is wishing someone a happy birthday. Our city administrator has a birthday, I understand. So just Mr. Cagnoli, I just want to wish you a happy birthday. I'm not going to sing, I promise, but you should go recognize this prophet isn't here. Happy birthday. Happy birthday. Got him. Happy birthday. Where's the treat? Happy birthday to you. Nobody going to join me? Nope. Come on, use them. I can't. All right, any other officer's reports?
 No. Hold the line. Alderman Quinones. Yes, I agree with Alderman Durkee and Alderman Thunberg. A lot of these businesses that, small businesses in the city of Rockford, restaurants and bars, I know a lot of them that if they close again, they're not going to be able to open up again. They barely made the last round. And I agree that we have the health department come up here and answer our questions. But I also want to know, when it's new...
 law or what they call what they hit, what the restaurants and bars are doing now. Who's enforcing that? Health inspectors or our city police department? We've got one half of town open and the other half of town closed. We've got to get on the same level here. I mean, we all open or we all close, but can the chief answer that question?
 So, for the most part, since this, the COVID pandemic started, our city's enforcement has largely gone through the legal department as well as the community development department has not been on our police department to do that. And that continues now. So we've been working with the health department more recently, I think in the last couple of weeks following up on complaints for in the city of Rockford as prior to the new regulations.
 for a while in the summertime when the restrictions eased we took a step back and the Health Department took over and continued countywide enforcement but we had agreed with other municipalities in the last few weeks of step in and take that back over so we're being to do that now thank you well the Mervyn's I have a question could I hear from the chief of the
 Does his officers respond to, are they going out checking the restaurants and small bars, large bars too? Opposed?
 Chief O'Shea. So we are not as Director Myers said all of its full has pretty much been handled by the legal department I think we may have gone out one time several months ago To one establishment, but we're not going around checking anything We defer to legal and the code or community department. We're not we're not involved in it right now any other Irvins I just have a question
 i don't know what the uh the possibility of this you know just think about the history in this and the scriptures throughout you know time there's been plagues there's been you know famine there's been these things that attacked nations and you find it you know repeatedly that the head of that nation the king or you know whatever it was you know once they've come to this realization that they needed god they would issue out they would issue out a request for the people to fast
 and to pray. You know, the Bible talks about the unity in mind when we're together. And then when we're putting our prayer requests or petitions to the father, we know about petitions, you know, collectively it says one can draw a thousand, two can draw 10,000, meaning that there's strength in numbers. What are the chances of us being able to establish a day for fasting and prayer?
 to ask the father seriously to intervene on our behalf. I mean, we're a nation, one nation under God. You know, he says all those that call on him, he wants to help. He's a good father like that. It's just a matter of going to him for it. Is that something that we can, I mean, I know, you know, you're just filling in for mayor, but is that something that we could possibly do, you know, to send up a petition of prayers as a city? No, no, no, no, no.
 then we're doomed all right that was it okay uh any other officers reports i'll just close real quick of course the mayor uh john mcnamara's funeral is today um yeah just i think i speak for all of us here when i say just a life well lived by mayor john mcnamara and of course all of our condolences to the mcnamara family um i'm sorry i have your honor alderman hervey yeah i'm sorry i had my hand up on the um
 I'll make it very quickly. I just also wanted to mention and send heartfelt condolences out to the entire McNamara family and our mayor as he sits with us.
 I we got to go to the visitation. I know a number of us were there. I want to thank Alderman Chiarelli for saving me. If I had stood in that line much longer, I would have been in real trouble. So I want to thank him for rescuing me, calling me up.
 I want to ask that legal counsel consider, one of the things I want to discuss as a city council, not coming from an outside group, but I would like for us to come together as the city council and discuss, is the possibility of a, I'm going to call it a citizen's review board or a citizen's complaint and advisory board, whatever we call it,
 We're going to have officer-involved shootings. We're going to have complaints about excessive force. It's not going to go away. It's been there since I was a kid. I look forward to the day when it's gone. But one of the things that we have not done well is to give people an avenue for having their voices heard when there are problems.
 The worst thing we have is four issues, especially ones that people don't want to deal with. Race, community distress.
 If you don't live in it, if you don't see it, it's not an issue for you. I know I tell a friend of mine, he always says that if the black community has a problem with police, it's because the black community has a problem with police. And his thought was because he doesn't have it, he doesn't worry about his son being shot or being harassed or being taken into custody or stopped and frisked.
 that if other people are experiencing that it's because they're doing something wrong. Um, so it's, oh, and I know the other one is, uh, it's because there are so many black kids that the good black kids are also, um, getting penalized for it. So the problem is not what the police are doing. It's the problem is what the bad blacks are doing. Um, and we fight about that. Um,
 But I want to talk about and have us as a council talk about how we are responding to citizens' concerns and citizens' complaints. I know Alderman Thompson, Alderman Chiarelli had listening sessions. And I know one of the things that came out of there was some kind of citizens' review board or advisory board and discussion.
 I don't know where we are with that, but here we are. We have another officer-involved shooting, and it goes to this Integrity Task Force, which is also made up of all officers. So we're right back where we started with community people calling and saying, yeah, but it's the police policing the police. We're right back there again.
 To the people who argue that unless you're a police officer and you go through the training, you can't possibly understand excessive force and the situations that you're faced with.
 I remember years ago when that was an argument that some physicians groups made that physicians' lawsuits could not possibly go to a jury because juries didn't have the intellect and the knowledge to be able to evaluate surgeons' and physicians' conduct. Some of that may be true.
 But if that's the case, every group can argue that unless you're in my shoes, you can't possibly evaluate me or judge me. And if that's the case, we have no more juries. We have no more citizens to have input in how our lives are managed. So I want to ask that as a council,
 We come together and look at this citizens review board, not pawn it off to a human relations commission or some other group. We did this after the Barmore case, and we made a few changes, and then they went away. And I think the reason for that is that it came from some outside group, not from the authority in the management of the city of Rockford, and that is the city council.
 so i would like to ask our legal counsel and my guess is that that would go to what code and regs um as a committee but that we take a serious look and and actually bring that up on the agenda um if if people are against it and they don't want it then vote it down as a council but if not i would like to see us hash it out and get that established
 as a council we may bring in some other groups to join us and for discussion but we need to take a leadership role in that that process and and do it now not six months from now because these issues are not going to end thank you
 i'll swing it over to director meyer yeah um just alderman herbie to respond to that um just to let you all know that uh i have been asked the mayor has asked me specifically in the legal department to begin looking into and reviewing um the citizens review boards uh both um so we're in the process of reviewing uh our ability right now um
 And then also looking at the various communities statewide that have implemented those, but also we've gone further to look across the country as well. So we are in that process right now. It's going to take a little bit of time to review to make sure we understand all of the different options and present to the council or whoever a good analysis of what the options are and what we think may be best suited for our community. So we are in the middle of that process as we speak. Thank you.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. I agree. I had a conversation with the mayor the other day And there are some changes and some movement on the community Citizens review board and also some Things that we're going to do in this community, but the one thing that I do feel that you know, we're very fortunate not to have had a
 major major incidents in this community you cannot solve anything by being irritable with people and not treating people with respect you have to have respect on both sides and I agree with Alderman Hervey that we need to discuss ourselves on how and what we want to be like all the things that we put in place when the biomore incident happened we're not doing all of them now
 They've been taken away. So we do need to discuss how we're doing, how we're reacting to they have a right to protest. I'm not saying that they're all correct.
 But some of the things that we need to prepare ourselves and discuss amongst ourselves is how we want this city to look like and how we want to respond to citizens in this community. I don't care who you are, whether I agree or disagree with you, you have a right to protest. You should not be hammed up and provoked in this city. You should have that right. So I'd like to...
 Go back to petitions and communications and under petitions and communications. I like to refer to the planning and not planning that codes and regs or planning and development. Liga can let me know which 1 is correct that we have this discussion on city council floor with our community and our protesters. Thank you all the moment comes to Kelly any other officers reports.
 Next item, adjournment. Do we have a motion on the floor? No move. Second. Second. We are adjourned. We got to call a roll? Oh. You have to call a vote. All right. Gerke. Aye. Hogeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beech. I'm going in full session. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye. McNeely.
 I hear you. Chiarelli. 13 nice. No full session. We're adjourned. I got excited.