Good evening, everyone. I would like to call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, October 3rd. This evening, we have our invocation being provided by Reverend William Martin of Providence Baptist Church. Let us pray. Eternal God, our Father in heaven, we come. We thank you for this day and this way. Now, God, as we get ready to handle the business of this city, we pray, God, for our entire city, all of our elected officials, our council. We pray, God, that you will continue to move by your power, your spirit, and your might. We thank you and we love you. In Jesus' name, amen. Thank you, Lord Jesus. United States of America, the republic for which it stands, our nation, liberty, justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prenti. Here. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Here. McNeely. Bonnie. 12 present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on July 11, 2022? So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Thank you. Next up, we do have one proclamation this evening. This evening's proclamation is National Bullying Prevention Month. Whereas bullying is physical, verbal, sexual, or emotional harm or intimidation intentionally directed to a person or a group of people. Whereas bullying occurs everywhere in our neighborhoods, playgrounds, schools, and through technology, such as the Internet and cell phones, known as cyberbullying. And whereas research has... Researchers have concluded that bullying is the most common form of violence, affecting millions of American children and adolescents annually. And whereas targets of bullying are more likely to acquire physical, emotional, and learning problems. And whereas students who are repeatedly bullied often fear going to school, riding the school bus, and attending community activities, and are at a greater risk of engaging in serious violent behaviors. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmar, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2022 to be National Bullying Prevention Month. Lori, would you like to share a little bit? Thank you. Hi, everybody. My name is Lori Davey, and I manage the autism program at Easterseals. The reason why this is such an important initiative for our program is children and adolescents with autism are typically bullied at a higher rate than their peers, although all of us are affected by it. So for October, we're really focusing on champions of kindness. We have a calendar of things you can do for somebody else every day. If you have any plans tomorrow at Mary's Market, we have a little kickoff event, and we're just recognizing kids who are including other children, being kind, and just all-around champions of kindness. So thank you for allowing me to speak, and thank you for all you do for our community. And if you haven't, make sure you sign up because Lori sends out a lot of wonderful information via email. Thank you, Lori. Next, we'll go to petitions and communications. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderwoman Tarina. Sorry, where are we at? Under the Code and Regulation Committee, the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on October 12, 2022, and meetings from that meeting for consideration, minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 24, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two. A memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the 2023 City Council and Committee Calendar Schedule, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And item number three, a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the pre-annexation agreement for 2690 Cunningham Road, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Alderman Trina. Next, we will go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. So all seven items here will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee number one is a memorandum from Robert Willoughby Brownfields redevelopment specialist regarding the approval of an application acceptance of the award for the United States Environmental Protection Agency Brownfields community-wide assessment grant Number two is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the proposed lien releases on certain Winnebago County trustee parcels in order to facilitate the sale. Number three is a memorandum from Jennifer Cacciapaglia, Mayor's Office of Domestic Community Violence Prevention, regarding the acceptance of grant award fiscal year 2022 grants to engage men and boys as allies in the prevention of violence against women and girls program. Number four is a memorandum from Sarah Brinkman, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the approval of an application and acceptance of the Cities for Financial Empowerment grant in the amount of $100,000. Number five is another memorandum from Jennifer Cacciapaglia regarding the acceptance of the Department of Justice Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Fiscal Year 2022 Strategies to Support Children Exposed to Violence grant award. Number six is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, finance director, regarding the internal controls cash handling and fraud policy. And number seven is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty regarding the American Rescue Plan implementation proposal. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next we will go to our public speakers who want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and a Microphone on the back left of council chambers. You can use either one You have three minutes to address the City Council at the conclusion of those three minutes. You will hear an alarm Ring NASA you close your comments first public speaker this evening is Larry Washington a Okay, I'm here to talk about the fifth ward. Autumn is meeting last Thursday at Providence Church. A lady asked Ms. Trina why doesn't she get back to her constituents about their concerns. She said she was too busy with her entrepreneur business. So she was basically taking money but not fulfilling her job as ordered, and that's pretty much stealing as far as I'm concerned. It takes less than five seconds to return a person's phone call. Please resign and let someone else who has the time do it. you find time to buy things with your alderman's check. At one council meeting, I noticed her. She looked like this was the last place on earth she wanted to be. She was more worried about what her manicure looked like than what was being said. The mayor brought up at that meeting, the Elgin Cleaning Company on matters of the 15th Avenue Bridge. I'm not sure why, because what I do as far as cleaning the bridge and intersection has nothing to do with what they do. But on that subject, if you walk across that bridge after you leave here today, you will see that the job they did is not satisfactory concerning the north side of the bridge. As far as my situation with the ongoing thing, illegal things going on with the strip clubs with the police. A 10-year-old could figure this out. Other cities have shut down strip clubs in their town for the exact same thing that's going on at the strip clubs here. Am I to believe that the cops are smarter there than ours? The over-serving at these clubs is criminal as far as I'm concerned. I saw a guy one day so drunk walk out of the tire cartel, he couldn't even get his motorcycle started. and the dancers are also over served so you miss drunk driving drunk sorry drunk patrons with drunk dancers you can imagine what happens during lap dances and i have seen the illegal stuff happen but for some reason my eyewitness accounts are not good enough for the police the police chief or the liquor commissioner nor is the video of a man saying he has had sets with several dancers at the bigfoot during lap dances that's not good enough either But it would be good enough in a courtroom. Again, something very fishy is going on in this town. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Branton. Good evening, Tom McNamara, Aldridge Persons, and our students at Rockford, Illinois. Ten years ago, I was a member of the Preach and Nonviolence Organization, and we used to meet in fairgrounds. And one of the biggest concerns was our kids walking to Lewis Lemon and walking to West River School. And so we was able to accomplish where the YMCA and United Way would provide transportation and lead the way, providing our youth wouldn't have to walk to school, but they would have support from United Way. The last person that was successful at doing that was our other person, Gina Minch. After Gina Minch left, that program kind of just dropped off. So instead of complaining about what United Way not doing, what YMCA not doing, Renewal Turning Point stepped up to the plate last year, started transporting our kids. This year we started out with five kids. The second day, the principal came to me and asked if we pick up some more kids. Our number one from five to we got 18 kids that we are transporting as of this day to Lewis-Lemons School, 10 that we transport to West Middle School. We're working on a 205 grant that the school is providing for transportation. My shortcoming with that grant is that they said I summarized everything. and thanks to the mayor did something right. He hired Ms. Flowers. Ms. Flowers has worked with the Attorney General's Office, has worked with grants, is working with me to fill in the blanks so we can ascertain that $2.5 million to be able to transport our kids to school. The other side of that is, I only cashed them $10 for each family the whole week. I spent $120 to $140 out of my pocket for gas. I got like three families that didn't want to pay $10 gas but they can buy weed every day and and and drink what they be drinking and whether that's because our people should come so complacent so I guess something that we have to work out but on the air thing this would be the third time we be written out the show place the last time we did for the Black Panther movie. Before that, we came down with Dr. Letitia Wallace and we did Wonder Woman. This year, on the 19th, the school is providing us with a school bus again for the past five years. We only charge each family $25. The tickets cost, the tickets include the hot dogs, popcorn, and drink cost $15. So we're getting our sponsors to help supplement some of our kids because the, the The Woman King is a historical movie. It's also in the Bible. They also is talking about the Amazons. Our kids in the middle school, high school get credit towards their school grades. I brought that up at the board meeting, but our kids in elementary school don't get credit towards their school grade. All of them should be able to get credit towards their school grade and this would be I just want to say thanks to those that be supporting me. My brother from another mother, Alderman Chad, and the man that's sitting next to him, Jonathan. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Dawn Rosanas. Thank you. I've been to a few neighborhood watches or informative meetings, and it was at a meeting, Mayor Morrissey, that you had said, if you see this happen, let us know. So is this trivial compared to this? But it's a waste of money. And it's the city sweepers of Rockford coming into our neighborhoods on garbage days. And so it's trivial, I know, but it's a waste of money. Every time is Monday for our neighborhood, and it's. continual, it doesn't stop, it's just on garbage days that the city sweeper comes in. Today it was so ridiculous that they came swooping down and I could not even get out of the house in time to say, even to talk to them, and they were already going up the hill, not even taking care of the debris in the gutters in the gutterway. So I took it upon myself this past May, I thought, okay, I'll call the city waterworks. They transferred me to the city street department. I kid you not. I was hung up on. They're like, this isn't an important case or situation. I'm like, well, wasting Rockford's money is. And not doing the job that you're supposed to, that is a waste. So it is a little bit important. When I called them, I was actually hung up on the first time. So I called back, and the response was, well, every day is a garbage day. Okay? SO THAT'S WHY I CAME HERE TONIGHT. THE GARBAGE OR THE CITY SWIPPYER LITERALLY CAME DOWN TODAY. SO I'M LIKE, OKAY, CITY COUNCIL MEETING. AND THAT'S WHY I'M HERE. IT'S A WASTE OF MONEY. THEY'RE NOT DOING THEIR JOB. AND IF THEY SAY THAT THEY ARE, THEY COME BACK, THEY COME. WE LIVE ON THE BOTTOM OF THE HILL. THEY TOTALLY MISSED THE GUTTERS. THEY TOTALLY MISSED THE SEWER. got it on drains They're not doing their job and you said back in when you're an alderman you took care of it And we were so pleased our neighborhood was so pleased so I'm coming tonight to say please take care of it again and alderman Toonberg you're our alderman, and it's just it's a waste of money and every time they're not doing their job. Thank you Next public speaker this evening is Earl Dotson the Bible and he spake also this parable unto certain who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and said all other than nought the men against i say unto you this man went down to his home justified rather than the other for every one that exalteth himself shall be humbled but he that humbleth himself shall be exalted The men against whom the master directed this parable were bigots, self-opinionated, self-conceited, dogmatic, and contemptuous. They were all the attributes of bigotry. And bigotry is a very familiar perversion of faith. Vital fellowship with God ought to make men gracious, magnanimous, generous. That's what it ought to do. I'm glad to announce these historically black colleges and universities I start off with Hampton University, Alabama State, Jackson State, Prairie View College, Spelman College, Alabama A&M, North Carolina AT&T State, Morgan State, FAMU, and Howard University. The reason I mention these universities because our organization is in touch with them because these are historically black colleges and universities. We're saying to them, you have the outstanding STEM programs that deal with science, technology, engineering, and math. We are asking them have some of the students who were here in Rockford, who went to those schools, come back home. Because we are applying for some of the $1 billion, $200 million that was given to the National Science Foundation to help these universities and the people in them deal with STEM programs. It is a delight to think about something such as that. What person with what purports to be a functioning cerebrum, would not want to see such a development in this underserved area benefiting the commonwealth. I am proud to say we are awaiting a response from the United States Department of Commerce to say Reverend Dotson, we're in. I think ROC would be proud. And many of the black people will not only have to pretend about these universities and colleges, but now they'll be able to say, look what we have done and what we are doing. Next, we will move to new committee reports and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. All right. Item number one, committee recommends approval of an ordinance to terminate the assisted living Riverhouse tax increment financing district. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Committee recommends excuse me item number two committee recommends approval of an ordinance to correct a scrivener's error in the first Amendment to the redevelopment plan and redevelopment project for the amendment Amrock wholesale redevelopment project area the legal director shall purport their appropriate ordinance and Item number three, committee recommends approval of the ordinance terminating the West State Kilburn Redevelopment Project area and the dissolution of the Special Tax Allocation Fund for the State Kilburn Tax Increment Financing District. The legal department, excuse me, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item four, committee recommends approval of an ordinance for the second amendment to the Tax Increment Redevelopment Plan and Redevelopment Project for the Amrock Hotel Redevelopment Project area. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. ITEM 5, COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF AN ORDINANCE FOR THE SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE AMROCK HOTEL REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA DESIGNATION. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. ITEM 6, COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE TAX INCREMENT ALLOCATION FINANCING FOR THE SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE AMROCK HOTEL REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. Thank you. So, Council, we have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomberg. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Kaufman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Item number one and two, 14 ayes. Item three through six, 13 ayes, one no. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, we have 13 items. Item number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial for a special use permit for an automated car wash in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 6845 East State Street. Thank you. Um, Tanner Brandt for Christian companies is the applicant item number two. The committee recommends the same the zoning board of appeals approval. For a variation for deviations from the regulations for the landscaping plan for the construction of a new parking lot. In an I1 light industrial zoning district at 2716. Eighth street whole properties subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 3 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards recommendation for approval for a modification of an existing liquor license to allow a full liquor license and approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a grocery store and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 3118 North Rockton Avenue Low-cost groceries the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances and Item for the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license To add additional corporate owners for a total of ten owners in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district Let's see The standard is the applicant. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 5, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink, Class L50, and modifying the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's recommendation to allow three video gaming terminals in conjunction with a restaurant and bar in a C3 general... Commercial zoning district at 44 77 and 44 XX Linden Road Alfredo's pizza pasta is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item six The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink and sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area and modifying the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's recommendation to allow five video gaming terminals in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 2219 East State Street Salomonies on state the applicants subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 7 Committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with performing arts lectures poetry readings stand-up comedy and plays in the c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 406 North Main Street and Main Street Theater and Arts is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Item number eight the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for a modification of an existing liquor license To modify the condition requiring perimeter landscaping along 11th Street excuse me 11th Avenue and 7th Street and interior landscaping in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 12037 Street When liquor is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 9 Committee maker rent recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license To extend hours from 10 a.m. To 1 a.m. Monday through Saturday Sunday from 9 a.m. To 12 a.m Midnight and to include an outdoor seating area in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 2 15 and 2 17 7 Street and Michael McNeely doing business as J&J Fish is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 10 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating area in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 307 South Main Street in ambiance Is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 11 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco and grocery store in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 13 12 7th Street and Um, let's see 7th Street convenience stores the applicant subject to conditions legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 12 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a c2 Limited commercial zoning district at 31 21 North Rockton Avenue Mobile rocks and gas Mart is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and finally item 13 Committee recommends approval of the final plat of the cottages at Peterson Meadows subdivision the location of the final plat is 6265 Newburgh Road I placed these 13 items before you. Thank you. Thank you. So we have 13 items before us. Is there any Discussion on those 13 items clerk. Will you please call the roll Durkee? Logum in timber frost Tarina Prenti Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie I am number one through four 14 eyes I am number five 11 eyes three nose item six 12 eyes two nose seven and eight 14 eyes item number nine for 13 eyes one no items 10 through 13 14 eyes and Thank you. Next we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. number one the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of eleven million four hundred and sixty nine thousand one hundred and eighty five dollars and seventy three cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting on september 26 2022. number two the committee recommends approval of a lean assignment of city liens to the northern only land bank from the city of rockford for vacant parcels within emerson estate subdivision with the boundary of school street to the south pierpont to the east auburn to the north and springfield to the west The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of a memorandum of understanding with city-state RMTD for Rockford Complete Streets Revitalization Project. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four the committee recommends approval of an agreement between the city of Rockford and Union Pacific Railroad Outlining preliminary engineering services for the grade crossing improvements at 11th Street and the Union Pacific Railroad tracks The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these four minutes before you Thank You council There's four items before us is there any discussion on those four items? No discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll Durkee? logan Bert frost Tarina printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 14 eyes Excellent next we have officers reports are there any council members who'd like to provide a report? Okay, next we'll move to motions and resolutions. We'll go to planning and development committee alderwoman Wilkins alderwoman Wilkins I were now on planning and development under motions and resolutions that Item number one committee recommends approval of the resolution in support of tax increment financing districts item two committee recommends approval of the grant application and award acceptance for the Illinois special bridge program physical year 28 ISBP grant for 15th Avenue over Rock River Bridge and the amount of two million seven hundred and eighteen thousand $71 item three Committee recommends approval of the grant application and award acceptance through reconnecting communities pilot our CP grant program For the ninth excuse me for the ninth Street two-way conversion project the grant application amount is approximately 6.5 million dollars. Thank you. There's three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Kirk will you please call the roll? turkey Logan timber frost Terina Prenti Wilkins Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. 14 ayes. Excellent. We have nothing under code and regulation committee. We'll move to finance and personnel committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the fire department laundry services to R&H Laundromat. DBA a1 dry cleaners for an estimated value of 32,000 the contrary duration is one year with four possible one-year extension options annual price adjustments for CPI consider the contract renewal only The funding source is the fire department operating budget number two The committee recommends approval of the award a bid for the facility maintenance and hardware supplies to try be hardware and Nicholson hardware for an estimated annual value of $80,000 based on unit pricing the contract duration is one year YEAR FROM DATE OF AWARD WITH FOUR POSSIBLE ONE-YEAR ANNUAL EXTENSION OPTIONS. ANNUAL PRICE ADJUSTMENT FOR CPI CONSIDERED A CONTRACT RENEWAL ONLY. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE PROPERTY FUND OPERATING BUDGET. NUMBER THREE, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE AWARDED BID FOR 638 WHITMAN STREET DEMOLITION TO N TRACK IN THE AMOUNT OF $28,100. THE PROJECT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY OCTOBER 21, 2022. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE CIP GENERAL FUND. number four the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for citywide crack ceiling 2022 to complete asphalt services of pittsfield illinois in the amount of fifty thousand dollars the project is estimated to be completed by november 11 2022 the funding source is the motor fuel tax 5. The Committee recommends approval of an award of bid for the Lindale Road and 20th Street drainage repair to DPI construction of Pecatonica in the amount of $51,509. The project is estimated to be completed by November 4, 2022. The funding source is the CIP General Fund. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for Millennium Fountain Renovation Affair grant in the amount of $38,700. The design portion is estimated to be completed in 2022 and the construction portion in 2023. The funding sources, redevelopment fund 60% and DCEO grant of 40%. 7. The Committee recommends approval of an award of RFP for workers' compensation third-party administration to PMA Companies of Schaumburg for an estimated annual claim expense of $104,900 flat rate guarantee 3 years. The contract duration is 1 year with 4 subsequent 1-year renewals. The funding source is the Workers' Compensation Fund. Number eight the committee recommends approval of an award of RFP for the workers compensation attorney services to widen the call off of Rockford for hourly rates at partners and associates of 175 per hour paralegals 100 per hour the contract ration is three years with two Subsequent one-year renewals the funding source is a workers compensation fund. I place these matters before you. Thank you So comes we have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those eight items? I Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. No. Tarina. Frente. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Item number one, 13 ayes, one no. Items two through eight, 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to new business, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee, Alderwoman Wilkins. Aye. Number one an ordinance approving the termination of the assisted living River housing tax increment financing district number two an ordinance approving the correction of a scrivener Scrivener's error in the first amendment to the redevelopment plan and redevelopment project for the amendment am rock hotel redevelopment project area item three a ordinance terminating the West State Kilburn redevelopment project area and the dissolution of the special tax allocation fund for the State Kilburn tax increment financing district number four an ordinance approving the second amendment to the tax increment redevelopment plan and redevelopment project for the Amrock Hotel redevelopment project area item 5 an ordinance approving the second amendment to the Amrock Hotel redevelopment project area designation Item 6, an ordinance approving the adoption of the tax increment allocation financing for a second amendment to the Amrock Hotel Redevelopment Project Area. Thank you. So these six items are before us. Is there any discussion on the six items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Tunberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Meeks McNeely Bonnie I'm so wanted to 14 eyes and I'm three through six thirteen eyes one note excellent Thank you next we'll go to code and regulation committee and older woman Tarina. Thank you your honor for the coder regulation committee We have 12 items Item number one, an ordinance approving a variation for deviations from the regulations for the landscaping plan for the construction of a new parking lot expansion in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 2716 8th Street. Item number two, an ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license To allow full liquor license in conjunction with the grocery store in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3118 North Rockton Avenue. Item 3, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3118 North Rockton Avenue. item for an ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license to add additional corporate owners for a total of ten owners in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district item for an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink and three video gaming terminals in conjunction with the restaurant bar the c3 general commercial zoning district at 4477 44 xx Linden Road suite e and item six an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating area five video gaming terminals and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 2219 East State Street and Item 7 ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with performing arts lectures poetry reading stand-up comedy and small plays in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 406 North Main Street item 8 ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to modify the condition Requiring perimeter landscaping along 11th Avenue 7th Avenue An interior landscaping in the c2 limited commercial zoning district at 12. Oh 3 7th Street item 9 and In order to approve a modification of an existing liquor license to extend hours from 10 a.m. to 1 a.m., Monday through Saturday, Sunday through 9 a.m. to 12 a.m. midnight, and to include an outdoor seating area in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 215 and 217 South Street. Item 10, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink. IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE RESTAURANT OUTDOOR SEATING AREA IN THE C4 URBAN MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICT AT 307 SOUTH MAIN STREET. ITEM 11, ORDINANCE APPROVING THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE TOBACCO AND GROCERY STORE IN THE C2 LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 1312 7TH STREET. ITEM 12, AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE GAS STATION AND CONVENIENCE STORE IN THE C2 LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 3121 NORTH ROCKTON AVENUE. THANK YOU. CHA Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Tunberg. Aye. Ross. Tarina. Frente. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Aye. Items number 1 through 4, 14 ayes. Item number 5, 11 ayes, 3 noes. Item 6, 13 ayes, 1 noe, 7 and 8. 14 ayes, 9 and 10. 13 ayes, 1 noe, 11 and 12, 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is an ordinance approving lean assignment of city links to the Northern Illinois Land Bank from City of Rockford for vacant parcel in Emerson Suites Subdivision number two is an ordinance approving a memorandum of understanding with the city of Rockford state RMTD for Rockwood complete streets revitalization project the estimated funding amount for the project is twenty two million three hundred and sixty four thousand seven hundred and ten dollars with the city's portion being two point nine million dollars Number three is an ordinance approving an agreement between the City of Rockford and Union Pacific Railroad outlining preliminary engineering services for grade crossing improvements at 11th Street and the Union Pacific Railroad tracks. I place these three matters before you for vote. Thank you. There's three items before us. Is there any discussion on these three items? Kirk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Janone s Meeks McNeely, Bonnie 14 eyes excellent. Thank you. Hi alderman frost. Hi. Nice to see you good to see you Do you have anything you would like to share with us this evening? Well mayor, um, I would um at this point I would make a motion that we convene as a council in closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters At these times, I wish I had other buttons up here that were like boo. But thank you. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right. We're going to recess into closed session. We'll be right back. Okay. We are now back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Grisham. Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Bonney, Durkee. 12 present. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.