Martin from Providence Baptist Church. Is Pastor Martin here? Not seeing Pastor Martin, would our resident Pastor Urbans, would you be willing to provide us with a prayer this evening? Yes. Can you lift up the mic? Thank you.
 Heavenly Father, I just thank you, Lord God, for this opportunity to gather together to do the business of the city, Father. I just pray for wisdom. I pray for guidance, Lord God. I pray that your hand be upon this moment and in this time, Lord God. The city has seen many heartaches. The city has seen much pain. The city has seen a lot, Father.
 And we would just appreciate it, Lord God, if you entered in this moment, Lord God. In Jesus' name we pray, amen. To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Sir, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Here. Alderman Gasparini. Here. Alderman Tunberg. Here. Alderman Fromm. Here.
 Ottoman frost Ottoman Hervey Ottoman Irvin's Ottoman Thompson colleague Ottoman Hoffman Ottoman Rose Ottoman Beach Ottoman Kionis Ottoman Beck Ottoman McNeely Ottoman Shirely 12th president you're not excellent. So we have a quorum this evening Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 16th? 2019
 We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on that motion and second? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Excellent. We'll move forward with our proclamations this evening. Our first proclamation this evening is for Fire Prevention Week. And I believe we have Matt Knott, Tim Morris, and others. Oh, man, awesome. I don't have to be so far away. I won't bite. He might, but I won't.
 Sheep. Whereas the city of Rockford, Illinois, is committed to ensuring the safety and security of all those living in and visiting Rockford. And whereas fire is a serious public safety concern, both locally and nationally. And home are the...
 And some are the locations where people are at the, their homes are the locations where people are at the greatest risk from fire. Whereas a majority of the US fire deaths, four out of five, occur at someone's home each year.
 And whereas when the smoke alarm sounds, Rockford residents may have less than two minutes to escape to safety. And whereas Rockford residents who have planned and practiced a home fire escape plan are more prepared and more likely to survive a fire. And whereas Rockford residents should make sure everyone in their homes knows...
 How to call 911 from a cell phone or a neighbor's phone. And whereas in 2019 Fire Prevention Week theme, not every hero wears a cape, plan and practice your escape, effectively serves to remind us all that we need to take personal steps to increase our own safety from a fire. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of October 6th through the 12th of 2019 to be Fire Prevention Week. Would you like to share some words?
 Thank you very much. I would like to take a couple minutes to have everybody introduce themselves here. John McGee, Fire Inspector. District Chief Sladeberry. District Chief Bill Hyde.
 Thank you very much. And the important message for this week is to practice your escape. No matter where you are, look for available exits. If an alarm sounds, take it seriously and exit the building immediately. Rockford Fire Department is hosting a series of events this week in support of this year's fire prevention campaign, Not Every Hero Wears a Cape. Plan and practice your escape, including an open house that will be this Saturday from 10 to 1 at Fire Station No. 5 on North Traynor Road.
 And to find out about some of the other programs we're doing, please feel free to call us or check our website or our social media feeds. So appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Next up, we have Crop Hunger Walk Day. Is David Jones here?
 Whereas healthy food is essential to thriving, to growth, and to prosperous long life, but those without land to grow food or money to buy it are likely to suffer from hunger. And whereas 800 million people around the world go hungry, including 11 to 12 percent of Americans. And whereas 3.2 million children die from hunger each year, and 66 million primary school-aged children around the world go to school hungry.
 in addition to one in five American school children who risk going to school hungry. And whereas the Crop Hunger Walk has been organizing cities and towns across America to fight hunger around the world and in their communities for the past 50 years.
 And whereas, by participating in the Crop Hunger Walk, we can draw attention not only to the problems of hunger, but also to solutions, improving the quality of life of all of our neighbors, no matter where they live, and supporting thriving livelihoods for all people. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 20th, 2019 to be Crop Hunger Walk Day. Would you like to share a few words?
 Just a brief word of thank you from the Crop Hunger Walk and the local chapter of Bread for the World for your presiding presence at the Mayor's Hunger Lunch, which you have helped us reconstitute. Thank you very much for that support and support of all the city. Thank you. Next up, we have National Bullying Prevention Month. I believe Lori Davey is with us.
 Whereas, bullying is physical, verbal, sexual, or emotional harm or intimidation intentionally directed at a person or a group of people. And whereas, bullying occurs everywhere in our neighborhoods, playgrounds, schools, and through technology, such as the internet and cell phones. And whereas, researchers have concluded that bullying is the most common form of violence affecting millions of American children and adolescents annually.
 And whereas targets of bullying are more likely to acquire physical, emotional, and learning problems. And whereas students who are repeatedly bullied often fear going to school, riding the school bus, and attending community activities, and are at a greater risk of engaging in serious violent behaviors. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2019 to be National Bullying Prevention Month. Would you like to share a few words with us? Sure.
 So my name is Lori and I'm with Easter Seals and we have found that people with disabilities are even bullied at a higher rate than Mayor McNamara just read about. So the solution and the research shows that kindness is the solution. So if children are coming to you or coworkers or somebody, please listen to them because really it's all about a listening ear and coming up with a solution. So thank you for supporting this.
 Be kind to each other. Thank you. So I do want to go off script just for a second. I think most deserving, so if counsel wouldn't mind. First, we have a really wonderful person who will be moving on to a different season in life, and that is Mr. George Davies.
 George Davis is retiring from the city of Rockford after working more than 26 years as the director of our human services department. I think there's a host of things that George has done throughout his career, but...
 Since I've been mayor how he has transitioned our early head start and head start programs to make sure that we are now serving more kids And these children are in the classroom longer sticks out as a really amazing accomplishment. The second thing I would say is Not every single person contrary to what I would like to believe Touches the city of Rockford every single day and loves their city government but I would say
 George you have touched Thousands and thousands of lives in our community and you have touched to it almost all of those lives that you've been touching are those folks in our city who need their government the most and I
 I just want to say a sincere thank you on behalf of myself, a thank you on behalf of City Council, and on behalf of all the citizens of Rockford for the work that you've done for more than 26 years. You've done it with incredible professionalism and incredible compassion to make sure that
 and to hold all of us accountable that we are serving absolutely every single person in our community to the best of our ability. So with that, I would like to honor you with a key to the city of Rockford and just say thank you. Thank you, Council, for letting me go off script. The last thing I'll go off script for is we also have someone in our presence who is missing something that is near and dear to him this evening.
 The Sixth Ward Alderman, Natavius Irvins, has been working for now more than four years, nearly five years. And he just recently got his journeyman status from the Carpenters' Local 792.
 And this evening, actually while we're here, and I know every single alderman misses things, if it's kids events or accomplishments, but this evening, Alderman Irvins is so fortunate to be right here with us that he is missing his five-year pin ceremony.
 that honors his commitment to the trades and to the profession that he chose. And I just want to say we appreciate your dedication to the city and just want to say congratulations early and say thank you for being so dedicated to all of us. So thank you. So at this pace, we'll be here as long as we were last week. So we are going to move right along. We have public hearings, and I will turn that over to Alderman Shirelli.
 Thank you Sir, thank you. Thank you. Um, so we are having a public hearing tonight Regarding Okay, pursuant to 65, Illinois compiled statutes 5 slash 11 dash 76 point 2 dash 1 for the authorization of exchange for the following properties the city-owned property and 11 dash 26
 430-014 for a Paris owned property 11 days 26 days 436-001 Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the exchange? Are there are there any comments or questions from the public hearing on this hearing is now closed? I?
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. And now we will move to Alderman Trelli to do yet another hearing. Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant 65 Illinois compiled statute 5-11-15.1.1-3 for the pre-annexation agreement for the following property, 4630 Charles Street. Are there any comments from the Alderman? No.
 Yeah, there's a Scribner's error. Mine says 4630. The agenda says 4640. I'm going off 4630. Yeah. Is there any other questions from the aldermen? Are there any questions from the public? Hearing none, this hearing is closed, Your Honor. You guys did a phenomenal job. Thank you. We are moving right along to petitions and communications. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll move to code and regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I got three this evening. The first is the Zoni Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on October 16, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on October 28, 2019. The second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for that meeting to be held on October 16, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on October 28, 2019. Thank you.
 And the third is the traffic commission's agenda for the meeting held on October 9th, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on October 15th, 2019. All three will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. Next up, we have our public speakers, and I want to... Your Honor, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry, Alderman Beck. I didn't have that on here. Sorry. Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Yes. So we do have a bid for the sale of property at 413 Ford Street. My lovely assistant, Alderman Shirelli, will open the proposal. Thank you.
 Okay, so we do have an offer for $3,000 from Mary O'Sullivan Snyder. And I will refer this to Finance and Personnel. $300. Well, I like the first bid better. Yeah. Yeah, the check is $300. So we will refer this to the Finance Department. Thank you.
 All right, so now we're on to the public speakers. My apologies. So just want to remind each of the public speakers that there's microphones on the back right and back left of the council chambers. You will have three minutes to speak. You'll hear a little ring and I'll ask you to close up your comments. So our first public speaker is Bob Black. One zero makes a big difference. Bob Black. We'll come back to Bob Black. Our next public speaker is Douglas Lee.
 I would like to cancel on that. Thank you, sir. Next public speaker is Mr. Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Romans, the 12th chapter, the second verse, it says, Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. What I want to speak about tonight, how to use the rapid system to transform rock into a one-in-one-year, six-month, 22-days, one-hour, 10-minutes, and 15-seconds. The rapid system stands for R, recommend, A, agree, B.
 P perform I input D decide a practical system for defining decision roles and accountability the person the recommended role leads the process he or she is responsible for training evaluating the relevant facts and other inputs and then proposing alternate courses of action the aid people who must agree to a recommendation are those who must sign off on it before it can move forward the P
 perform role in the process involving the individual group who will perform or execute the decision it's this party's job to implement the decision properly and effectively the p with input responsibility provide the relevant facts that are the base of any good decision they also offer their own judgment based on their experience but
 that these people decide. The decision-maker obviously needs good information, good business judgment, a grasp of the relevant trade-off, and a keen awareness of the organization that will execute the decision. Giving a deed to one individual ensures single-point accountability. As Harry Truman said, the buck stops here. If you use my system, you could bring in a rock of 4,565,250,175.20 cents in one rock.
 You have to be more creative to transform this city. And you must break the habit of not trusting each other and holding on to power and not sharing with others. This habit you have is keeping you from growing. You have fallen victim to no growth paralysis, a broad profound systematic illness worsened by constant denial. It represents a serious threat to the health of Rockwood. Growth is the action of any business or city. The key to city or business life or death. A growing city or business grow, shrinking cities and business dies.
 I'm glad you're here tonight, Mr. George Davis. I also been wanting to tell Mr. George Davis this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. And I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. And I also want to congratulate you on your retirement. Happy birthday to you.
 Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, Mr. Davis. Happy birthday to you. And God bless you. I'm going to miss you. In the book of Proverbs, the 18th chapter, 24th verse, it says, show thou self friendly. And there's a friend that'll stick closer than a brother. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tagg Brantley.
 We're leading Mayor McNamara, all the persons, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois, and mostly Rock over here.
 Proverbs 28 verses 27 say, God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs?
 The power of the precinct community can't be underestimated. I'm going to pause for a minute because William G. Stokes, I've been knowing for 40 years, has passed away. We've been DJing together for 37 years. His, uh...
 I'm from home from 4 to 6 o'clock. It's Tuesday. I'm one of the pallbearers for Wednesday. His daughter said something to me that only three people is going to speak, only three songs are going to be played. Then she said they only got three minutes to speak, and he want to see –
 but the price to want to see what you're doing in here Lord have mercy on his soul when I get up there I don't believe I'm gonna be able to hold no three minutes talking about somebody I've been known as a brother all my life and I'm going to go on to talk about the precinct committment and they job a person you never know where the precinct committment were till they saw me now that we talking about three casinos I live on the west side we still prefer for the casino to
 be in the downtown area. But since the mayor and the rock group here had decided that we're looking at the clock tower, we still want to get a piece of that pie. Even though Rick Nelson said to me last week that he would offer me a job,
 I'm not looking for my chef to get a job. I'm looking for our constituents on the west side of Rockford to get a job. And how else you can help us by is on 27th of this month, we taking 60 or 90 kids to Disney on ice. So we not only need transportation, but we also need some funding to take our at-risk kids to Disney on ice.
 Now I'm going off the script and going back to what's happening on the west side. We had a young man named A.J. that had an incident on the 4th of July with the police department. And all of a sudden his mom was trying to find out what's going on. He never received a citation or nothing. Then she get a call a week ago from the public defender office saying that they have a court date on the 21st.
 of uh this month didn't tell her where the courtroom was yet oh and what heavy how can you go to court have a court they get a public defender without going to court first i never heard the being put before the horse and so we looking at the mayor and the chief of police to find out why this young man never received a citation so thank you thank you we'll follow up with you thank you all right and look forward to y'all sponsoring us for the day in your life thank
 Next public speaker we have this evening is Alicia Holloman. Good evening. My name is Alicia Holloman and I'm the mother of Anthony Holloman Jr., who we call AJ. As I previously informed the council of my concerns with the police using excessive force on my 16-year-old, I have been more than patient in waiting on someone to address my concerns. I attended to file a complaint
 on the officers involved on several different occasions. However, I've been unsuccessful in receiving any responses. Over the last three months, I have attempted to obtain a copy of the police report several different times, each ending in a denial, stating that the case was in open court. There's no pending cases against him or charges, according to Chris Elders, a juvenile probation officer who I met with on August 14, 2019.
 On Monday, September 30th, my daughter received a letter from the state's attorney office that they were going to pursue charges against Anthony for an incident that occurred October 18th, 2018. When then my 17 year old daughter and AJ, who was then 14, I reached out to the state's attorney's office seeking information. I was informed.
 that the state was pursuing charges against AJ for aggravated battery to a police officer and resisting arrest. In addition, since he was charged with aggravated battery to a police officer, he will now be charged with the incident that occurred with his sister after one year of the incident since he is now being charged for what happened on July 4th, where he was choked, slammed against the wall, kneed in his face while he was handcuffed on the ground, drug across the concrete where he suffered bruises and abrasions to multiple parts of his body,
 The officer who explained the incident to me at Swedish American Hospital stated that he had a blackjack firecracker in his hand when he grabbed his hand from behind. And AJ elbowed back in defense, not knowing an officer was behind him and who the person was grabbing him. As a result of the officer's actions, now my son will be labeled a criminal. We now have a court date.
 October 21st, 2019. If the officer would have followed proper code of protocol by announcing himself before grabbing him or like I stated before, if the officer was close enough to grab his hand, couldn't he just simply say, hey stop, you give me that firecracker and none of this would have ever happened. AJ would have no reason to elbow back in attempting to get whomever off him. As a result, to the officer not following proper protocol,
 and my son defending himself now he's going to be labeled a criminal the state's attorney would never be pursuing charges what ultimately for what was a family matter from a year ago my daughter also called the police on two of my other sons that month she tends to be motherly and quite bossy to the boys and that was the first time of them defending themselves my husband and i handled the situation and our family has since moved on it's not fair to him to now be put through the system and charges being sought out as a result according to the ordinance
 that was in place in that night, if he had had 100 blackjack firecrackers, he would have only received a ticket, not been arrested. To this day, no one has informed our family of any of the charges court dates are finding. If my daughter would have never received the letter, we would never know anybody was pursuing charges. Thank you. We'll have an officer come out and follow up with you right now. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. Bob Black here. Bob Black's not here.
 All right, we'll move on to new committee reports. Under new committee reports, we have Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, your honor. The first committee report, I would like to hold that out this evening. So number one is being held out. Number two is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no park at any time restriction on both sides of Doherty Place from Crosby Street south to end of street.
 Number three, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action on the stop sign request at the intersection of Shaw Woods Drive and Springbrook Road. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the contract between the city of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks.
 Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a motor vehicle shop, not including body work, painting or commercial vehicle repairs at 905 West Riverside Boulevard.
 Subject to conditions. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant bar and video gaming at 3905 Broadway. Subject to conditions. Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's denial for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store at 1708 and 1706 Rural Street.
 Number eight the committee recommends approval of the annexation of eight zero five five Springbrook Road and all of those your honor the legal director shall Prepare the appropriate ordinances and I placed those all up for passage your honor. Thank you So counsel you have seven items before you this evening items two through eight Is there any discussion on those items two through eight? I?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Keonis. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Sciaroli. They all pass, Your Honor. Thank you. Next up, we will move to officers' reports.
 just want to provide just one update i know a number of aldermen were out at the airport today i know i saw alderman beach i saw alderman frost and i saw alderman shirelli i believe there could have been others that maybe i missed so i apologize but out at the airport today we had
 Governor JB Pritzker, we had Congresswoman Sherry Bustos, Congressman Adam Kinzinger, Senator and Senator Durbin all out to really celebrate the good work that's happening out at the airport.
 Amazon now has tripled the square footage that they have out at our airport and have about 600 employees today. UPS just spent about $15 million doubling down on their commitment to the city of Rockford and to our airport and have about 2300 employees.
 And this all comes on the heels of just recently our airport being named the fastest growing cargo airport on the planet. So there is a lot to be excited about out at the airport. And I know that we have a tour scheduled for all the aldermen coming up in the next couple of weeks. So I'd urge all of you, if you haven't responded to those e-mails,
 please do uh it's an exciting time in the city but specifically out at the airport and it's uh really wonderful to just see it uh in person all the great work that is transpiring out at the airport so uh with that i'll turn you over to council for any officers reports i was about to say alderman mcneely thank you mr mayor i just want to make sure that this is on record i believe we all received an email from forest city casino
 LLC and I want to make sure that it's on record. Thank you. Thank you any other Reports seeing no other reports. We're gonna move on to unfinished business and we don't have any planning and development work So we're gonna go right back to alderman Shirely for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank Your Honor. The first is 78
 01 East State Street. The Zoning Board of Appeals recommends approval for a special use permit to increase the maximum allowable square footage for two electronic message video display wall signs from 36 square feet to 644 square feet. A special use permit to increase the maximum allowable square footage for one electronic message video display wall sign from 36 square feet to 340 square feet.
 A special use permit to increase the maximum allowable square footage from 36 square feet to 1,276 square feet for one electronic message video display freestanding sign. And I have a list of variations here, Your Honor, so bear with me. First is a variation to increase the maximum allowable number of freestanding signs from two signs to five signs.
 B, the variation to increase the maximum allowable number of wall signs from two wall signs to five wall signs. C, the variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of five wall signs from 240 square feet to 250 square feet for each wall sign. D is a variation to increase the maximum allowed height for a free standing sign from eight feet to 100 feet.
 E is a variation to increase the maximum square footage allowed for a free standing sign from 64 square feet to 1,060 square feet.
 1,160 square feet. Number F is a variation to increase the maximum allowed height for a freestanding pylon sign from 8 feet to 100 feet. G is a variation to increase the maximum square footage allowed for a freestanding sign from 64 square feet to 2,908 square feet.
 H is a variation to increase the maximum allowed height of a free standing sign from 8 feet to 60 feet. I is a variation to increase the maximum square footage allowed for a free standing sign from 64 feet to 600 square feet. J is a variation to increase the maximum allowed height from two free standing landmark signs from 8 feet to 9 feet.
 K is a variation to increase the maximum square footage allowed for two freestanding landmark signs from 64 square feet to 74 square feet.
 L is a variation to increase the required perimeter landscaping strip from 20 feet to 10 feet along Lyford Road. M is a variation to allow deviations to the landscaping plan as per the submitted site plan. And the C3 general commercial zoning district at 7801 East State Street.
 Subject to conditions number two is eight zero five five Springbrook Road I put place these up for passage your honor do any alderman want alderman Trelli to repeat any of that? Awesome, so you have to yeah, you have two items before you is there any discussion on the two items before you alderman her Thank you who inspect signs to determine if they're if they meet like safety requirements Say if they're like really tall
 Do we do that in the city or do we hire an outside person? Mr. Kegnell. So we do that internally and when they're of a certain size which some of these would meet that requirement, they're required to submit drawings from a design professional to ensure that they're safe. Okay and do we have any requirements for, kind of like we do with some of the the larger items,
 that they have to provide for dismantling or destruction? If they no longer meet those safety requirements, do we require any kind of sinking fund or permit or deposit? Mr. Cagnoni or Mr. Franton? Mr. Franton.
 So we do not have a standard provision within our code related to that matter in regards to providing funds. However, it is within the code official's authority should a structure, including a sign structure, be considered dangerous and unsafe. They can condemn it, order the removal or repair of it.
 Just something to think about. I've got some where we have these old service stations and things. Those signs are huge, and you can see where the bottom is just rotting out. So something to think about. Thanks. Thank you. Is there any other discussion on items one or two?
 alderman rose i normally don't go forward with kind of variations like this but since the one is in the shape of a guitar i'm going to go ahead and move it forward all right any other uh discussion seeing no further discussion clerk will you please call the roll jerky gasperini toonbert frost hervey irving hoffman rose aye beach kionis beck
 Abstain on one, aye on two. McNeely? No on one, aye on two. 11 ayes on number one and 13 ayes on number two. One for Alderman Shirely. Oh, Alderman Shirely. You need my vote? Yes. We'll take it. Aye. So both still pass. They both pass. Thank you.
 Moving right along we're gonna move to motions and resolutions We don't have any planning and development items. So we're gonna go right back to Alderman Turelli stay standing all night. Hey, okay So first motion and resolution is the proposed temporary construction of an easement for portion of 38 05 West State Street to IDOT Number two is the pre annexation of 4630 Charles Street place those up for passage your honor. I
 Thank you. So you have two items before you. Is there any discussion on the two items before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toombert. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Keonis. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. It's 13 ayes, Your Honor. Thank you. So both of those items move forward.
 So here is where I'm going to make one change to our order. We need to approve the ordinance's...
 Specifically in code and regulations is especially one that we just Approved with some of the variations for the signage and things of that nature For the Hard Rock Clock Tower site And so I am going to ask that we take items one and two at the end Of Council before we adjourn so that we can do these items in order so as we move forward we have then done all the zoning and then move to our
 uh the agreement so everything's in order prior to moving through the agreements so i will move this over to alderman back to address items three four and five thank you your honor
 So skipping over one and two, item three is award of bid for citywide sidewalk and ADA repairs package number four to Stenstrom Excavation of Rockford in the amount of $58,943.33. Next is the award of bid for Winnebago Street, Jefferson Street sidewalk and deck repairs to Shellstrom and Sons of Rockford in the amount of $55,196.00.
 And then number five is the award of bid for bulk lubricants to Perkins Oil Company of Madison, Wisconsin, for an estimated annual value of $30,000 based on unit pricing. Contract duration is one year with four optional one-year extensions. And I place these three items up for passage. Thank you. So, Alderman, you have items three, four, and five before you. Is there any discussions on items three, four, or five? Seeing no discussion on items three, four, or five, clerk, will you please call the roll? No.
 Durkee? Aye. Gasparini? Aye. Tunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Irvins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? 13 ayes, Your Honor.
 Excellent. So we're going to move forward to new business under ordinances code and regulation committee right back to you alderman Shirella, thank your honor the first item I held out earlier in the evening Number two is an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on both sides of Doherty place from Crosby Street South to the end of the street Number three is an ordinance approving the contract between the city of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct the
 compliance monitoring checks number four is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a motor vehicle shop not including bodywork painting and commercial vehicle sales at 905 West Riverside Boulevard number five is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant bar and video game in at 3905 Broadway and
 Number six is an ordinance approving the special use permit to increase the maximum law square footage for two electronic message video display wall signs from 36 square feet to 644 square feet number or
 A special use permit to increase the maximum allowable square footage from one electronic message video display while assigned from 36 square feet to 340 square feet. And a special use permit to increase the maximum allowable square footage from 36 square feet to 1,276 square feet.
 for one electronic message display free standing wall sign your honor I would request since I've already read the variations in earlier that I do not read them again if that's okay it's okay with me director Meyer you okay with that so typically we would require all the variations we read in but they've already been read in once and for the sake of efficiency it's acceptable they're all listed on the agenda to to skip those does any other council member really want to make them read them all right
 remember that all right so we have uh a through m was already previously read in this evening yes so i request that the council is very intelligent they're competent thank you so i put so number seven is an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment from county ag
 to City C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 8055 Springbrook Road. And number 8 is an ordinance approved in the annexation of 8055 Springbrook Road. I place these ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So, Alderman, you have ordinances 2 through 8 before you. Is there any discussion on items 2 through 8? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Durkee, hi Gasparini Toomber frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach Fiona Beck Neely six and seven really 12 eyes on number six and number seven and there's 13 eyes on the remainder. Thank you so those items pants and
 Thank you. We are now gonna backtrack a little bit and I'll let the council know we do not have closed session as it's stated here. So that's really terribly exciting. So we're going to backtrack here to Roman numeral 9C1 and 2 and Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a resolution certifying casino applicants to the Illinois Gaming Board.
 I have a resolution approving the host agreement the host community agreement with casino developer I place these two items up for passage. Thank you. So alderman you have two items before you alderman Durkee Thank You Your Honor. I I
 Wanted to reiterate some of my comments regarding this project that I made last week Certainly, it's it's it's always enthusiastic to see developers Come to Rockford not just the hard rock But the the other folks that have spent a great deal of time to come and invest in Rockford however, I Wasn't a hard sell for me to support the hard rock cafes. I mentioned to some aldermen that
 And I counted them, I've actually been to 26 Hard Rock cafes all over the world. And it is an internationally proven successful business model. And the organization has experienced nothing but growth since its inception. And it does it through a cache that other organizations sometimes don't have. There actually is almost a cult following to this brand.
 And the fact that an internationally recognized business would invest in Rockford is kind of exciting to me, that we will have that kind of draw. It's internationally proven. It's a brand that I think will outdraw any other generic type casino, including, we're looking at this from a competitive model, including a Ho-Chunk.
 I think you take an international person or a local person or a regional person and you set up a hard rock versus anything else. I think the hard rock outdraws them by far. I also understood and I appreciate some of the insights that the consultants had, and I do appreciate the work they did. I don't know about you, but I actually look at casino projects every day in my office and look at lawmen.
 But I am grateful that they were able to digest this down into workable parts that really helped us understand this. But I actually believe that the hard rock won't corner the market, so to speak, anymore.
 in entertainment in Rockford out on the east side. I still believe that in our region, in our town, a rising tide raises all boats. And I do think that this can be an anchor to, a draw to music and arts into the Rockford area.
 And we've although and again we focus on the casino But we can't underestimate the fact that they do have an entertainment value and draw to the business model So I get the casino, but I don't want us to lose track of the other elements of this very successful business. I
 I think also when we look at, I only know a few of the investors, but they're locally proven. I mean these guys have invested in our community in various different ways and they've been extremely successful in helping to continue the growth in Rockford and our continued success locally.
 I do believe that you know being an international organization that the hard rock brand that does this all the time I think they did their homework that they have to they're successful what they do. They did their marketing. They did their analysis They do it for a living and like I said the fact that they this brand wants to Invest here says a lot for our city and and for the area a couple of last points and
 And also, I don't want this to be missed, their corporate logo is Love All Serve All. And as I've gone to these various hard rocks in Europe and other places, there's generally a sign somewhere.
 They're always full, but there's always generally a sign somewhere where they're raising money for some local organization or for some international thing. So it's not about just entertainment, it is about community. It's about involvement and working with folks and people and doing just a great job. But and to the governor,
 and the state legislature, you know, my appreciation because, you know, we are a border community and it is no secret that Wisconsin poaches things here from here. And for us to be at least recognized as a border community and some of the challenges that we have to be able to bring this here is, you know, thanks to them and kudos to them for that. So that's my bloviating, Your Honor. Thank you.
 Thank you. Other discussion? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. There's been a lot of conversation in recent days about a casino coming to Rockford. Personally, I'm concerned about the far-reaching effect that will have on our community and the loss of income in many cases with people who can at least afford to lose the money. I'm also concerned about balancing budgets with losses from casino ganglions.
 There's just something fundamentally wrong with that picture as far as I'm concerned. I'm proud of the way that Rockford's balanced our budgets in spite of the serious challenges we've faced and many of those at the hands of the state out of our control. It's clear that casino gambling is coming to Rockford, and I'll tell you truthfully, I've struggled with this, as you well know. I spoke to you on several occasions and others because I'm not really a supporter of gambling. However, my vote tonight is...
 really not for a casino for Rockford, but as the best way to block the unregulated casino from moving forward in Beloit. As I said earlier, it's clear that gambling is here. And so I will say to you tonight, I will support this committee report for the location of the old clock tower near I-90 and cast yes on that vote.
 Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Rose, did you have your hand up? Yeah, I just wanted to second what Alderman Durkee said at this process.
 For development of a casino and we didn't just have one proposal. We had three and I know the other groups that did not get the The choice or did not make it to that final pick We're grateful for the work that they put in because I know they placed a lot of effort into those projects and I think what that says is I
 that our city is turning a page and that as as we continue to grow and develop that further development will continue on both sides of the river and the downtown and that as that as we continue to grow that we take a look at some of the things that we can
 take a role in improving our city and developing both sides of the river so um i'm in support of this and i know that um this is going to be a great um future for our town so that's it thank you alderman hervey okay i don't have a nice speech i have questions as usual boring but with regard to the i'm going to call it the 815 foundation because i think that's the way it was stated
 that the distribution of those funds has that already been determined in uh no it has not but i'll mr kagnona uh thank you your honor no the distribution of those funds has not been determined okay um you know one city council will need to make a determination of how much funds goes to the foundation and then as the foundation determines
 What funds will be distributed through the community that will also require City Council approval? Okay. I just wanted to make sure because I was a little confusion as to whether That had changed the second second is with regard to the the I think it's a restricted radius agreement What is the radius? I didn't see the the mileage is at 50 miles 100 miles 50 miles 50 miles. Okay, would that encompass the Beloit casino? I
 Yes, it would. Okay, I wasn't sure if that was going to be right in Beloit. Okay, then I do have one other comment that I wanted to make. Probably more so than anyone around this horseshoe, I wanted to see a casino somewhere in the South Main Corridor for totally selfish reasons. I really didn't care about any of the rest of you or what it might do for you.
 But I was desperate, and I'm still desperately looking for something to help infill the South Main Corridor. When I grew up, that area was the heart of, well, we used to call it our little Italy. Streets are named after Aragona and other areas, whether it was Sicily or Northern Italy.
 It was a very vibrant and it's an historical part of the city. If you walk up and down those shuttered buildings, 100 and some years old, some of them like my place, 120 some years old. The tiles are still laid in the outer area, the entrance to the places. That's part of Rockford's history and I want to see that history brought back to life.
 but I'm also not stupid. I know that the amount of money it takes to repair those buildings very often outweighs any kind of return on investment that you could get. So I was really hoping that a casino would rise up somewhere in that area and help change the valuation of those buildings and help bring something vibrant back there.
 I got a call from someone today who it was a group that one of the neighborhood groups that was looking to support the Barbara Coleman development. And they were out of town, so I haven't had a chance to call her back, but they're now pulling out because of of rock valleys uncertainty. So I'm going to be on the phone with her to tell her. Nope, it's not. It's not done yet.
 um I I'm I I am going to I think a lot of people called and said well I know you're going to support downtown uh because that's what you want yeah yeah that is what I would have wanted and I would have loved to see I would like to see the train there I've been asking for that for 45 years um but I do support the hard Rock
 casino and the location on I-90. I still can't stand I-90, don't get me wrong. I think it was wrong to build it where they did, but unfortunately I can't tear it up and move it to the center city.
 So I my ultimate goal is to do what's best for the city and I think it's going to bring the most value But I intend to milk hard rocks expertise in development and every other kind of development experience business development and every other kind of Land use development all of that that they could possibly have Because I'm not giving up on the South Main Corridor and I don't want anyone in Southwest Rockford to believe that and
 I'm not giving up on Barbara Coleman. I'm not giving up on the 9, 10, and 1100 blocks or any other part of South Main. So...
 That is the one that's going to get my support, and I would ask that my fellow council members join me in certifying only one casino recommendation to the state gaming board. Rockford needs to make its own decisions, and I think this one, people said this is too important of a decision to get it wrong. That's right. So if we have a thought, we should give the gaming board that one thought, not a choice of two or three or anything else. So thank you.
 Couldn't agree more with that last statement alderman McNeil. Thank you. Mr. Mayor my to alderman Hervey would love to have had Casino and the 13th Ward on West State Street Closer to bypass 20. However, I don't believe that's going to happen. I would hope that the Hard Rock organization will make good use of the
 their love to help organizations and individuals by joining with me and the city to come up with some dollars as well as some great ideals for the West State Street area. I can't say that I have been happy with this process when we started. I wasn't for Hard Rock or any
 In fact prior to the state actually saying the city would get a casino I have been voting no on all the items that came before us for a casino because like Alderman Beach, I don't think that The casino is going to be the savior for our city I think it's gonna bring about a lot of problems but if we have to have it then I certainly support it and
 I would like for us to send to the state more than one, but I don't, I think I'm the minority, which frequently happens here on this council. I don't think the majority of the aldermen want to send more than one to the state. So I wish the city, I wish the casino, Hard Rock Casino Organization the very best.
 but it saddens me because i sit here one more time voting for something to come east and it's not a bad thing it's a good thing i'm glad the city continues to make improvements east but it's truly hard to sit here and not see the things coming to the west and not being able to say to my constituents yeah we're growing too
 We're not a forgotten part of the city. It's truly hard to go back to my constituents and say that the casino is going east. So, Mr. Mayor, I have voted no on everything tonight related to the casino. I know that it'll pass, but we'll see. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Gasparini and then Alderman Tunberg, and we'll work our way around.
 We weren't here for my first speech, Mr. Mayor. Now it's your second. It was wonderful. So now it's my second one, but short and sweet, unlike the rest, as usual. But I just want to say I'm a Southside kid, so I grew up down there and I want the Southside to do well too. And but I just want to say the thing, I supported all three. I loved all the development ideas. They were great and I hope to help them in the future with development of Rockford. East side, South side, downtown, I would love to do it all.
 But being a new alderman, Jonathan Logerman is in a lot of trouble because of this. He threw me into a fire pit and so he will pay when he gets back. Yes, so but I just want to say that I get a lot of letters, a lot of phone calls, and the constituents, there was pretty much one deciding factor on this. And in the end, I think in the end what I had to do is I had to trust the people in the room.
 We got a group here that did a great job, unbiased view, looked at all the numbers, and they picked the proper developer. And I appreciate them, and I want to thank them for all their work, and thank you. Thank you. Alderman Toonberg. Thank you, Mayor. I would like to thank all three proposals and those who were behind it. I'd like to see more of this happen in the business sector as well and more businesses coming here to compete.
 so thank you to all who have who have contributed to that I tend to look at things from an economics point whether it's multipliers of value-added income employment output etc and it just seemed very clear looking into that that hard rock was a clear winner in that in that area I also wanted to mention the
 There was many times notated the downtown everyone knows that I advocate for downtown. I think a city's Uniqueness is its downtown every I say every city has its strip malls and shopping centers But everyone's every city's downtown is unique And so I really looked at you know, the factors and how this would affect downtown and all I did look at Aurora and their casino issues there and
 They're looking at moving out of downtown at this moment. But also Springfield, Massachusetts was mentioned repeatedly as being a very successful casino in downtown Springfield, Massachusetts, which has been compared many times similar to Rockford, where there's population, size, et cetera. A river runs right through their downtown, the Connecticut River.
 But one of the thing that distinguishes it is Remember years ago the powers that be chose to put i-90 way out there and we've been trying to make up for that ever since I think we're making huge strides right now in Conversations that have been brought up due to this process are things that I think can still come into fruition downtown
 And so, but one of the things that makes Springfield different from Rockford, and I mentioned the tollway, is that you can get on I-90 right out here, and you can go almost right through their downtown on 90. It's about, actually, I called out there, their MGM is about five to ten minutes off on 90. But also, I-91...
 crosses 90 and goes one block away from their casino downtown one block away they also have two interstate feeders coming off a 90 that go right into downtown right near the casino no just a couple off ramps along the way but i think there is a distinguishable difference
 that I think was left out at least what I had seen when comparing Rockford to Springfield Massachusetts was yes they have a successful downtown casino but they have very very very easy access whether it's I 91 or I 90 so that is a distinguishable difference from that to Rockford so
 So I would like to thank all the participants and with that said, I will continue to support downtown endeavors. In this case, the tax revenue that the city will reap, I think is clear that Hard Rock is the winner in that. Thank you. Thank you. Other comments? Alderman Shirella. Thank you, your honor. I also would like to thank the proposers. I think they were all very professional.
 and communications with us when they could communicate with us so it was kind of a strange way to get information but I believe that the city did a wonderful job getting that information to us as the time was appropriate I want to thank Sid and his team and Bobby the assemblage of that team was outstanding your honor
 I want to challenge all of us in this room that when these types of proposals come forward, that the behavior is always at that standard because I think it was outstanding. On behalf of the 14th ward, it was very hard again going to meetings and not being able to talk openly and freely because when we could.
 Some people were just not interested in hearing the facts of when we were receiving them. But on behalf of the 14th ward, I'm going to be supporting this casino proposal from Hard Rock. Because one, I believe in the team they assembled, they are truly outstanding and professional in the deal.
 that we assembled with our legal team that they put together. They showed their commitment to this community. They showed that they wanted to be a partner in this committee. And I continue to challenge them as they go forward and build this casino that that relationship is ongoing. And we can all better our community from all the negative aspects to gaming, to all the positive things that will come from that application. So again, I want to thank the proposers.
 I know that they put a lot of time and money in it and I don't want them to feel that they were Not treated fairly because I believe the city did an outstanding job on that to handle all the proposals So again as a representative of the 14th ward, I will be casting a yes vote for the hard rock casino proposal. Thank you Thank you other uh alderman ervin's yeah, I also want to thank the the proposers as well all the hard work that you put in staff to to
 give us our recommendation. You know, I think that as much as I would like to see a casino on the west side, I start to think the west side or even downtown, I start to think there was one statistic that was shown at the public hearing where they said about 85, maybe 90% of the people that will be coming to the casino will be local. And I was just thinking, you know, that's money that's just being filtered. We'll be receiving that money anyway.
 whether it's in our taxes or revenue drawn up by the casino. And so I think it's wise to actually put it off to the east side, especially with the brand of the Hard Rock bringing in so much more outside revenue. I think that if we could prey less on our own people,
 in this city that's already hurting, that's the decision that I want to go with. Forest City, I believe they had a strong proposal as well and if it was up to me I would send both recommendations. I really believe that it's wise not to put all your eggs in one basket. And so yeah, if we had to send one, I think tonight I'll be going with the hard rock. And I just again want to thank all the proposers and
 Thank you all there my nervous any other comments well before the boat. I'll just close by saying first a tremendous. Thank you to Kim Bobby and said our consultants and a thank you to the council for Hiring and authorizing city staff to go out to get consultants. I think all three did just really a phenomenal job Working with our city staff the second group is city staff and
 Still as a pretty fairly newer mayor two and a half years in To see the amount of work that your city staff does every single day and
 Is really humbling to see that work coupled with a budget coupled with the casino and other items that are coming at us is really remarkable. It's something I think all citizens and certainly this council should be proud of the work and professionalism to which our city team does that work is really, really remarkable.
 Secondly, a $300-plus million development, 2,000-plus jobs, an international brand makes all that work worthwhile. And I would just say to the team that was assembled from the Hard Rock, I just want to say,
 Welcome to the City of Rockford. We are incredibly excited to be a partner and appreciate your thoughtful approach to your proposal, the completeness of your proposal, and the thoughtfulness in which you...
 negotiated with the city of Rockford. I think it said a lot about Understanding that this isn't a one-time development For a community. This is just the beginning of a really long and hopefully really strong relationship. So I just want to say thank you I truly appreciate all the efforts that all of you put into this
 Alderman Herbert. Your Honor, for the benefit of the public, could you please just give a brief outline of what's next? I was asked that question quite a bit today. What's going to happen after tonight? I will give my best guesstimate as I put on my state legislator cap.
 So this evening we will certify, hopefully, one proposal and certify the host community agreement. We've already approved the zoning items. So from this point, all of our information, the way I understand it, will be part of a package that the Hard Rock team will deliver down to the Illinois Gaming Board with the city of Rockford as a partner to them to get approved.
 My understanding is that the Illinois Gaming Board or the IGB has up to 12 months to get this project done. Yeah, we had 120 days. But the IGB will work incredibly hard to get this done, and we will help them and push them and advocate for our Hard Rock to get, if that is approved this evening, to get approved and licensed by the Illinois Gaming Board.
 Once that happens, then all of our agreements start really fully in force and they will begin rapidly to develop the temporary site and the temporary site for Rockfordians will be out at Giovanni's Convention Center. And then they'll move...
 Once they're up and ready to move, they will move to the permanent location, which for Rock Forteance is a former. And I'm so happy we can finish saying former clock tower site and just say the new hard rock site. And so that is the process as I know it. Am I missing any key pieces to that process? Oh, and we start getting revenue. Yeah.
 But again, just want to say I know the amount of time that many of you put in is years and years. And I just want to say a specific thank you to all of you for all that time and effort. And I thank you to the city council for your patience and hard work throughout this process. So without further ado.
 We will move forward with Roman numeral nine C one and two clerk Will you please call the roll? Yes, very timber frost 30 servants Hoffman rules beach Keona's esteem McNeely you have a question
 Until the next item too, but I do have a question. We're doing both items everything's happening right now I'm sorry. Well, I wanted to find out To try and get or if I wanted to try and get a change to agreement that Hardrock has made with the city cities made with Hard Rock such as 815 foundation the possibility of getting a foundation 13 and
 Would I ask that request now or? So I'll ask staff to correct me, but Alderman, I would say at this point, having 10 or odd members already having voted and two having, uh,
 negotiated an incredibly complex agreement with Hard Rock, I would say that time has passed. And my accurate in saying that, our legal team says yes. Okay, thank you. So my vote for 1 and 2 would be no. Chiarelli? Yeah. That's 11 ayes, 1 no, and 1 abstain. Excellent. So we have a casino coming to Rockford. Is there a motion to adjourn? Is there a second? Second.
 All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful day.