I think you all look like you're wearing white coats. Come on forward. There's a door right here. You can sneak through. Whereas pharmacists. Okay, we'll try this again. Whereas pharmacists are the most accessible healthcare providers delivering critical services to patients and contributing to the health and wellbeing of all people. And whereas pharmacists are best positioned to be the healthcare provider that ensures optimal medication therapy outcomes and help to ensure patients are adherent to their medications and serve as providers during public health emergencies. And whereas with a community pharmacy located within five miles of nearly all Americans, pharmacists and pharmacy personnel are best suited to work collaboratively with other healthcare providers and are making an impact in helping patients overcome illness and live healthier lives through chronic disease management and... the fully effective use of their medicines. And whereas today, there are over 300,000 licensed pharmacists and over 400,000 pharmacy technicians and 47,000 student pharmacists providing care and serving as patient advocates for ensuring access to the best and safest therapy to the patients they serve. And whereas the American Pharmacists Association and the Illinois Pharmacists Association have declared October as American Pharmacists Month. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2023 to be American Pharmacists Month. And I would just add that we are really fortunate to have. our student pharmacists here in Rockford, on the Rockford campus of University of Illinois College of Medicine. Just want to say thank you, not just for the work that you're doing every day, but certainly during the COVID global pandemic, you continued and stepped up to serve our community and also on a number of our neighborhood initiatives, you all have served our community. So thank you so much for all that you do and we're fortunate that you're here. Thank you. Next up, we have National Bullying Prevention Month. Whereas bullying is a physical, verbal, sexual, or emotional harm or intimidation intentionally directed at a person or a group of people. And whereas bullying occurs everywhere, in our neighborhoods, playgrounds, schools, and through technology such as the internet and cell phones known as cyberbullying. And whereas, researchers have concluded that bullying is the most common form of violence affecting millions of American children and adolescents annually. And whereas, targets of bullying are more likely to acquire physical, emotional, or learning problems. And whereas, students who are repeatedly bullied often fear going to school, riding the school bus, and attending community activities, and are at a greater risk of engaging in serious violent behaviors. years. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2023 to be National Bullying Prevention Month, and we're fortunate to have Lori with us. Lori, would you like to share a few words? So I work at Easter Seals, and our office is actually located at the College of Medicine, so we're very lucky to be there. Yeah, we did. Um, One of the things that we're doing to help with bullying is we're doing a community kindness project. POP tabs or adult beverage tabs, and we're donating those to Ronald McDonald House. We find I primarily work with autistic individuals, so they can sort them and count them. It's a great activity. We make it like a social skills group. I get pizza, and everybody usually drinks a soda or a beverage once in a while, adult beverage. So we're collecting those, and then all the funds will go to... Ronald McDonald House which serves children that need critical care We are so thankful to mayor McNamara and our law enforcement we see tons of kids especially now with the internet and Sextine and all of these things are being bullied and individuals with autism are typically bullied at a higher rate than their same age peers so WE ALL NEED TO WORK TOGETHER AND IT'S A COMMUNITY EFFORT AND JUST THANK YOU FOR ALWAYS LETTING ME COME AND I ALWAYS BRING EMILY AS MY SIDEKICK. SHE'S MY DAUGHTER AND MY REASON WHY I DO WHAT I DO. SO THANK YOU, EVERYBODY. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. NEXT WE HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING. A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE 2040 CITY OF ROCKFORD COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. SO I'LL TURN THAT OVER TO THE CHAIR OF THAT PUBLIC HEARING, ALDERWOMAN WILKINS. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled status 5-11-12-7 for the consideration of the proposed 2040 Rockford Comprehensive Plan. Notice of this hearing was given by publication and the Rockford register star on August 6 2023 That notice informed citizens of Rockford of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, September 25th 2023 at 5 30 p.m And City Council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford Illinois for the consideration of the proposed 2040 comprehensive plan and On September 25th, 2023, public notice was given that that hearing was rescheduled for today, October 2nd, 2023, at 5.30 p.m. Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the 2040 Comprehensive Plan? Are there any other questions or comments from the public? The ordinance authorizing approval of the 2040 Comprehensive Plan should be passed under new business ordinances. This public hearing is now closed. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to petitions and communications, and we'll go right back to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Item number one, we have a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an application and award acceptance for the Surface Transportation Block Grant, STBG program for the Harrison Avenue reconstruction, referred to Planning and Development Committee. item number two we have a memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding an application and award acceptance for the surface transportation block grant stbg program for the 9th street two-way conversion referred to planning and development committee item number three we have a memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding the city-state agreement for the economic development program edp for the east state street widening project referred to planning and development committee Item number four, we have a memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding a proposed ordinance for the termination of the South Rockford Redevelopment Project Area and the dissolution of the Special Tax Allocation Fund for the South Rockford Tax Increment Financing District, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. We have three items. Item number one is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 53XX and 5430 North Main Street, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Traffic Commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on October 11, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 23, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And lastly, number three, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding amendments to SEC 17 through 43 rental registry of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances and its Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Madam Chair. All matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from Chief Pancow regarding the Illinois Mutual Aid Box Alarm Systems Agreement. Number two is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the acceptance of seven grant awards for continuum of care. Number three is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the acceptance of the DCEO Weatherization Department of Energy BIL Grant Award. Number four is a memorandum from Carl Peterson regarding the acceptance of the 2020 Burn Justice Assistance Grant. program award number five is also a memorandum from Carl Peterson regarding the acceptance of the 2022 burn Justice assistant Grant program award number six is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty regarding the extension of the garbage collection contract number seven is a memory from Robert willamy regarding the acceptance of an application award for U.S EPA brownfields community-wide assessment Grant thank you Thank you. Next up, we'll move to public speakers. We have five public speakers this evening. I want to remind the public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and back left of council chambers. You'll have three minutes to address council and ask that you close your comments when you hear the alarm. Our first public speaker this evening is Flossie Hort. Good evening. Mayor McNamara, city council members and other city officials and all that makes up this assembly this evening. I'm going to speak a little bit about trauma. I know it has been one of the main medical phenomenas that have taken this country, this city and homes by a surprise, by a storm, by upsetting them, by trying to find out why they're suffering Is there so much trauma in our society today? Why are our children so violent, adults, and the whole nine yards? But I just want to share this with you first of all. What we see today is not the first event that took the world by surprise, meaning trauma. God sent Moses to warn the people that the world was going to be destroyed by water and due to the violence and the disobedience that it was going to rain 40 days and 40 nights and they get their house in order. We also can read in Genesis the fourth chapter where Cain killed his brother Abel and it had to do with trauma and jealousy. But let's bring it home. Let's bring it to Rockford. Why are so many of our young people and young adults dealing with trauma? Why is there so much violence in our homes and in our community? Could it be due to a historical pattern when you look at the east side of Rockford and the west side of Rockford? Our young people are trying to make sense out of this world that we call life, and we can refer to it as even Stevens. Even though on the west side we don't have a medical facility, we don't have a major food chain where we can go buy healthy food for our families, we don't have a bank, we can't even get a driver's license on the west side of Rockford. Many of our young people can't understand that form of trauma, especially when they say, pull yourself up by your bootstraps, go to school and get a good education, But they don't see the end result of the West Side with that good education. I would dare to say that according to Cambridge English Dictionary, it says trauma, severe lasting emotional shock and pain caused by extremely upsetting experience or a case of such shocking happening. Children exposed to chronic stress or trauma may also have problems with learning, memory, and concentration. I would dare to say if we want to eliminate some of the trauma we see in our community and in our home, let's have a major reform in our society. Young men and women going to prison when they come out and serve their time, they can't find gainful employment because of their past history. That's trauma. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, I couldn't finish it, but thank you in the way. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Oh, how you doing, Tom? Mac Amara, the Alderman of Citizenship of Rockville, Illinois. The chairman of the Woodland County Board challenged you. He knocked your funding for me working on getting the van. But what I want to talk about first is tomorrow, piggybacking off the first speaker, they had a pre-trial Fairness Act discussion panel. They talked about the Fairness Act. The Republicans that was there, all they talked about was how much money that they're going to be losing and also put fear, tried to put fear in the hearts of the community and they lumped all of us in one bucket. Tomorrow we got a meeting at 9 o'clock. I invited some people, and we're going to meet at the library. We're going to meet with Tom Mawson because we wanted to tell him how we feel about the Safety Act. And there is some positive things about the Safety Act. And spinning off of that, the fact that the chairman, challenge the mayor. He gave me the same amount the mayor gave me. They also, the Winterberry County Board has promised to give me $500 in increments. But they also put the challenge to Rockford City Council, Department of Human Resources, who have funds to get funds from HUD, the things that everybody in here knows what I'm doing in the community. A $30,000 van we're getting for $5,000. And from August the 5th, we have raised $3,800. If we get to $500, and I'm wondering how many increments that's going to be, I'll find out later on this week from the Wyndham-Labor County Board, how many increments they're going to be giving me the $500. We'll be at the $44 by the end of this week. And I'm looking at, we not only need to raise the $5,000, but we've got to have insurance, we've got We got to have the title. I got a 501c3. That's going to cover the taxes. Mind you, the police department has been giving me a pass. A lot of kids have been moving in my personal van. When they know I need a... I got a lot done. I'm taking this up again. Knowing that I need a church van, so me getting this church van and having my personal van, I would be able to move the 30 kids. And also we addressing the absenteeism, the suspension, we addressing the bullying and the social promotion in the school system and the bullying bullying, I see that on a daily basis. And instead of giving money to Ronald McDonald, we need to be adding programs after school programs to deal with the kids that's going through trauma, to deal with the kids that's being bullied, and also to address the kids that are bullied because they're being bullied because of the atmosphere they're growing up under. And thank you for allowing me to speak, and I'm looking forward to seeing and also the arguments The board members in our area cover our kids. We want to see the audience in our area cover our kids. And the Department of Human Resources. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Jack Curry. From Nexamp Solar representing 2701 North Springfield Avenue. This is a special use permit request for a 4.5 megawatt solar facility on the corner of North Springfield Road and Safford Road. this proposed project received staff report recommending approval based on their detailed review and a unanimous positive recommendation from the zoning board of appeals following a public hearing we have tried to engage and include the abutters and the residents in the subdivision as part of this project development i have met with one of the butters back in june and we walked the site we have changed our proposed layout multiple times as well as the proposed annexation area to accommodate these neighboring properties In the last week, we have increased our setback by 75 feet, bringing the total setback from residential properties to approximately 180 feet. We have also added in a secondary layer of screening closer to those neighboring properties and can add more as a condition of approval. This past Friday night, we held a neighborhood meeting so the folks in the residential subdivision to the east of the site could bring up their questions and concerns. I understand the folks in the subdivision do have concerns about this project, but I do feel that the changes that we have made throughout the design process have helped to mitigate some of those concerns. Most of the folks in this subdivision would not have a clear view of the site from their house. Denying the project because the subdivision prefers the view of farmland sets the stage that this property owner can no longer develop the property so long as the residential properties in the subdivision object because they prefer the way the property looks now. Another concern, another theme among the folks concerned was property values. We had a licensed real estate appraiser conduct an analysis for this project that they presented at the Zoning Board of Appeals hearing back in June. The conclusion being that there is no market data suggesting a project here would negatively impact property values. This appraiser has appraised over $10 billion worth of assets over the past 42 years. This project would be a quiet and passive use of property next to a residential subdivision, and there are no municipal utilities extending to this property currently, making this a suitable location for a solar project. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Acts, the first chapter, the eighth verse, it says you should receive power when the Holy Ghost comes upon you. What I want to speak about tonight, the Union for Social Justice. Together as representatives of diverse religious communities around Rocky, We raise our voices against the bigotry, intimidation, and violence that the 2016 national election have unleashed within the body of politics. A surge of Islamophobia, anti-Semitic, misogyny, and discrimination against immigrants, refugees, African-Americans, Native Americans, LGBT, two individuals, and people with disabilities has threatened the well-being of so many throughout our city and our nation. The virtues necessary to sustain our democracy are weakened when fundamental rights that hold our social fabric together are undersold. Together we embrace the common ground of human dignity and high ground of compassion as religious leaders. painfully aware of humanity's capacity for scapegoating the most vulnerable in times of uncertainty. We refuse to allow our difference to be used as vessels as or targets of oppression. Our diversity is our strength. We assert and renew our commitment to fight religious discrimination in all forms. We stand in solidarity with our Jewish brothers and sisters and condemn violence and hatred against them and their sacred side. We also stand in solidarity with our Muslim brothers and sisters against any attempts to create a Muslim register, we commit ourselves to protecting the religious freedom that contributes to our democracy and sustains our spiritual life. We assert We assert and renewal our commitment to work against systematic racism. We must put it in to the persistent and pernicious pattern of racial injustice in employment, housing, education, healthcare, and criminal justice. White supremacy and rectory can have no place in our political discourse. We assert and renewal our commitment to women. Our tradition may embrace different ideas about gender roles, but we stand together against actions and policy that degrade or restrict women's lives. We resist a culture that permits sexually predatory behavior and demeaning stereotypes. We celebrate women as leaders and as authors of their own experience. We commit our religious faith as places where women are welcomed, valued, listened to, and respected. We assert and renew our commitment to refugees and immigrants who have always contributed to the civic, economic, cultural life of the United States. We will resist mass deportation of undocumented individuals and fight ticket bans on rap. We stand in solidarity with communities and municipalities, often sanctuaries. Many of our traditions contain sacred narratives of one. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Our next public speaker this evening is Bob Neiman. Mayor, aldermen, alderwomen, I am Bob Neiman, a realtor for over 50 years. This is my first appearance before the Rockford City Council. I was born in 1940 at the Rockford Memorial Hospital in downtown Rockford. 2816 Kenmore Avenue behind West High was home for my first 17 years. I graduated from the University of Illinois and NIU with an MBA degree. I was a lieutenant in the United States Air Force and returned to Rockford. In 1969, I started a real estate career working for Joe Carlson, Frank Beach's father-in-law. In 1986, Edgar Oppenheimer came from Freeport to work for me as a real estate salesman. Edgar's father bought farmland in the southeast corner of Springfield and Safford roads in 1989. I revisited this area yesterday. The partial use of the middle land would be ideal for solar panel use. The home in the southeast corner of Springfield and Safford was listed and sold by my real estate firm. Recently I sold a home on LaBelle near the land. While in the Air Force, I became a licensed pilot and flew from Texas to Cottonwood Airport. About 20 plus years ago, I listed a ceramic shop at Springfield in Auburn. Neighbors objected to an offer to use it as an auto shop, proposed to operate eight to five, five days a week. Eventually zoning allowed its present use as the image tavern. The neighbors didn't get what they asked for. Summers of 1956 through 58, I worked for Central Amoy Electric and Gas. Horsman Street Landfill was the dumping area for tree removal. It is now a site for solar panel use. Edgar's parents endured the horrors of the Holocaust in the Netherlands during the Second World War. They immigrated to the United States in 1951. I have testified in local court as an expert witness on real estate values and know this neighborhood well. I urge you to authorize the partial use of 30 acres for solar panel use. I strongly believe the value of adjacent properties would be impacted positively. This parcel will be a good neighbor. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we are going to move to new committee reports, and we will go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Committee recommends approval of the 2040 City of Rockford Comprehensive Plan. The legal director shall prepare their appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Council, we've got one item before us. Any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. those opposed item passes next we'll go to code and regulation committee all the woman Trina thank you your honor I have 19 items item number one the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish yield control on berkeley street prior to entering the intersection of foster avenue legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number two the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish yield control on berkeley street prior to entering the intersection of webster avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval requiring traffic on 8th street to stop prior to entering the intersection with 17th avenue The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval requiring traffic on 12th Street to stop prior to entering the Intersection with 13th Avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number five the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the request to establish yield control at the intersection of Howard Avenue and Berkeley Street and 6. The Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals' approval for a variation to modify the 50 x 72 inch reader board to allow for a 41 x 75 inch electronic graphic display sign on the existing legal non-conforming freestanding sign in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 1601 East Riverside Boulevard. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a gas station, convenience store, and truck stop in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 1509, 1551, 1541, and 15XX Sandy Hollow Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 8. The Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals' approval for a special use permit for a mural in the C4 Urban Mixed-Use Zoning District at 301 North Madison Street. Subject to conditions, the Legal Director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 9. The Committee recommends approval of a special use permit for a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels. In an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 3225 Halsted Road, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 10, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum permitted business identification wall signs from 2 to 5 in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning program. urban mixed-use residential zoning district at 300 elm street subject to conditions legal direct shop appear the appropriate ordinance number 11 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the square footage of an existing freestanding monument style sign along I 90 from 257 square feet to 303 square feet and a variation to increase the height of the from 20 feet 8 inches to 23 feet 10 inches for an existing freestanding monument-style sign along I-90 in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 3535 North Bell School Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 12, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial for a variation to increase the maximum permitted. Six residents to eight residents for community-based housing in an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 59 46 Williams Drive 13 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial for a variation to increase the maximum per six residents to nine residents for community-based housing in an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 1234 National Avenue and 14. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial for a variation to increase the maximum permitted 6 residents to 13 residents for community-based housing in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 6274 Brigantine Lane. 15. The Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial for a variation to increase the maximum permitted six residents to eight residents for community-based housing in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 3522 Applewood Lane. 16. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals' denial for a variation to increase the maximum permitted six residents to nine residents for community-based housing in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 5383 Pepper Drive. Number 17 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar and grill and video gaming terminals in the c2 limited commercial zoning district at 501 and 517 15th Avenue subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 18 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink and class NGWB in conjunction with a restaurant in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 805 East State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 3420 East State Street. Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. All right, so we got 19 items We have 19 items before us alderman rose Thank you your honor for item 9. I'd like to make a motion to lay over at the request of the applicant We have a motion to lay over 9 is there a second we have a motion in a second So that's now been automatically laid over so council. We now have 18 items before us. I believe alderman burials a Has an item he'd like to bring forward? Number 18, I make a motion in support of modifying the hours of operations from 10 p.m. to midnight. So we have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion on that motion? Director Myers? Just want to make sure it's clear. The modification will change the hours of operation from to midnight seven days a week. Thank you. we have a motion we have a second second still stands is there any discussion on that motion just simply on 18 uh the motion that alderman barrios brought forward all the woman makes i just have a question can can you do that on a sunday director myers yeah there's no uh restriction on that we have a motion we have a second any other discussion simply on the amendment uh from alderman virus all those in favor of the amendment say aye those opposed All right. Item 18 has been amended, so we now have 18 items in front of us. Is there any other discussion on the 18 items in front of you? Seeing no discussion on those 18 items, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? No on 6, 12, 13, and 16. Can you just clarify? Director Myers? Did you say you're voting no on 12 through 16? It's a recommendation of denial. That's why I think he's asking. So that that those are items related to Oxford House application in the DBA and committee both recommend denial of an application Okay, so that would be a yes vote not a no vote would be no on six abstain on 11 I am the rest Autumna Trina autumn and Pratt in autumn and woken autumn Hoffman autumn in Rose Ottoman Beach no 117 Meeks autumn and Bailey Alderman Bonnie. We have 12 ayes on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 15, and 16. I'm sorry, 16 yes, number 18. And then we have 10 ayes on number 6, 2 noes. Then we have 11 ayes on number 7, 1 noe. We have 10 ayes on number 11 and 1 abstain. And then we have 11, I'm sorry, 11 ayes on number 17, 1 no. Next, we will go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number 1, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,582,029.32. Thank you, Your Honor. as approved the finance and personnel committee held on september 25 2023. number two the committee recommends approval of the city state railroad agreement for railway highway grade crossing improvements using the only commerce commission grade crossing protection funds agreement outlines the funding of the estimated 191 thousand 727 project the funding shall be 100 covered by the grade crossing protection funds with no cost to the city the leader lead legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the purchase agreement between the City of Rockford and Oliver Emerson Development for purchase of the building at 215 South Madison Street for $55,000, which is the appraised value. The sale of the property is necessary to provide site control that will allow the private developer to invest in completed market studies, engineering, architectural services, and secure redevelopment financing. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the purchase agreement between the City of Rockford and Oliver Emerson Development for purchase of 131 North Main Street for $70,000, which is the appraised value of the property. The sale is necessary as the same reasons as number three. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the release of liens on certain Winnebago County trust properties. That are listed the legal director shall prepare the appropriate number six the committee recommends approval of the release of a lien at 307 North Hinkley Avenue for a total amount of 2,909 dollars the owner has now sold the property through a warranty deed which means she is responsible for resolving all means Leans are old and the city has not incurred any expense on the property since 1994 Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. I Thank you. We have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to take a minute to commend the developer, Oliver Emerson, with regard to items three and four, for recognizing the value in reclaiming historic property in our town, and in this case, the property is both, both properties are not only architecturally significant, but culturally and commercially significant, and because, you know, this is, As a developer you're taking a much greater risk with this kind of a project. It's preservation is hard work Saving historic properties is much more intricate proposition than building on on vacant land and I think we should also take a minute to I Pat ourselves on the back that as a city we have held on to these historic properties and would encourage us to continue to do so until we until we Developers come forward because it's the it's the reuse of these properties that give our town character And it's of course a much more environmentally friendly thing to do than to demolish and so I just wanted to I I would just like to second what Alderman Bonnie said is that you know our town is um really based on some of the historic buildings and architecture that we have that tells a story of our um of our great town's history and so encouraging that i think the oliver group is doing some great work and trying to do that i did want to comment on item 6 you know the the mention here mentions that the liens are out are dated since the 1980s which You know, I understand that that's an old lien. However, you know, I almost kind of think to myself How much that would have been had we charged interest on that like on a lien like that that has gone unpaid for so long I am and I've done this in my ward and I've done this with other things as I am absolutely opposed opposed to waving liens on you know private sales of properties where someone tries to you know, put the you know property amount or that lien amount onto someone else and In this case, I don't know if it was a family member or not. I don't know if there was a private sale or not But I've had people come to me and ask for me to waive liens in my own ward and I've denied them and so And for item six, I will be voting no just simply because I think it's poor practice For us to waive liens in these types of private You know move overs to family or whatever the case it is. I think also that we could probably, you know, get more code enforcement officers if we didn't waive any liens like these. We'd have more money in our chest to afford that resource. And so number six, that's why I'm voting no on it. Thank you. Other comments, questions on the items before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Waterman Durkee. No on the six. Coderman Frost. No one. Coderman Tarina. Coderman Patti. Coderman Wilkins. No one. Coderman Hoffman. Coderman Beach. Coderman Barrios. Coderman Meeks. Coderman Bailey. And Coderman Bonnie. On number six, we have ten eyes, I'm sorry, ten nose, and two eights. And then eyes and all the rest. Thank you. Next, we'll move to unfinished business and committee reports laid over. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. MS. Thank you, Mayor. I have two items. Number one, the committee recommends denial of the special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, free standing solar panel racks and solar panels in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 2701 North Springfield Avenue. Thus, reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation for approval laid over from September 18, 2023. And number two, the Committee recommends approval of the pre-annexation agreement for the 2701 North Springfield Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderman Frost. MR. Just so I'm clear. If we vote yes on both, we are voting to approve the pre-annunciation payment. Dr. Myers? So we wouldn't be able to, if you're going to vote yes on the pre-annunciation grant, we need to modify the committee report to reverse it and recommend approval of the special use permit because they're both connected together. Alderman Frost? At this time, I would make that motion to modify the committee report from a denial to an approval. Okay. So we have a motion and a second to modify the committee report from a denial to an approval. Is there any discussion on that motion? Seeing no discussion on that motion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Aye. Okay. Motion carries. So right now we have two items before us, and item one has been amended from recommends denial to recommends approval. Truthfully that just makes it easier for people to vote on the item So a yes means a yes and the no means a no just if anyone's following this or watching. That's why they did this Any other discussion on the two items before us clerk, please call the roll Oh Eight All right. Next, we will go to officers' reports. Just wanted to make all the aldermen as well as citizens aware that we have a Citizens of Police Academy that's starting October 4th. Still have some time to apply. Good opportunity. The class meets on Wednesdays. Mr. Mayor, I'm sorry to interrupt. So on item number one that we just voted on for denial. That came out of Zoning Board of Appeals as an approval with certain findings of fact. So now that that has become a denial, the council is going to need to adopt findings of fact in the negative. There should be a crib on Alderwoman Tarina's desk for that. If not, I can correct. Can I stand up, sir? So the findings of fact for denial must be adopted for committee's recommendation to deny a special use permit for the installation of solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 2701 North Springfield Avenue, thus reversing the zoning word of appeals recommendation of approval. One section. Wait, I need to read that. OK, wait, hold on. You'll start with the in the boulder says I moved to adapt findings of fact reflect denial and then read the entirety of the board I move to adopt findings of fact to reflect denial of the special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 2701 North Springfield Avenue the findings of fact Can read is read as follows findings of fact? for denial of a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an r1 single family residential zoning district located at 2701 springfield avenue you need to continue with the word denial the special use permit is based upon the following findings and flip over the back it's a long one sorry all right denial of the special use permit is based upon the following findings Number one, the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use permit will be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort, or general welfare of the community. Number two, the special use permit will be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted and will substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood. Number three, in the establishment of the special use will impede the normal or orderly development... improvement of the surrounding property for uses permitted in the district for adequate utilities access roads drainage and Our necessary facilities have been are being or will be provided number five adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide Ingress or egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets and the special use does not perform to the applicable regulations of the r1 district in which it is located and So this actually this is this motion requires a second. So we have a motion before us with those findings of fact Is there a second we have a motion we have a second. Is there any discussion clerk? Could you please call the roll on the adoption of these findings in fact? Durfee Ross Karina Pronte Wilkins Alderman Beach you have a question you guys speaking to them if we voted for For this issue first of all to be consistent with that vote do we vote against this though? So I think you could I don't think you voting for this means that you're inconsistent either, but director Myers. Do you want to add to that certainly so? in order for the council to deny the application for this solar field and It also needs to adapt findings of fact that are consistent with that vote, which is what we're doing now. So if you voted to deny the application for the special use permit, then you'd be in favor of findings of fact that recommend denial. No. Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Bailey? Bonney? Aye. Eleven ayes, one no. Thank you. All right. Moving right along. Now we're going to go to officer's reports. Does the legal team have anything else you want to add before I go to the officer's reports? I feel like you have something against the Citizens Police Academy at this point. So I want to make everyone aware that Citizens Police Academy is starting up again. It starts October 4th. You can still apply today. Class meets on Wednesdays starting on the 4th from 6 p.m. to 8.30, and your meetings are out at Rockford Police District 3, which is on South Newtown Drive. Pretty wonderful course. I had the opportunity to go with Chief Red each year for the graduation ceremony, Everyone comes away from that course learning a lot of new material, and I can't tell you how many times I've went to one of these graduations that people have went for their second time just because they didn't feel like they learned everything the first time and still learned new information. They really go through everything from visiting 911 center to discussing gains, having the state's attorney talk, talking about domestic violence, use of force, forensics. Crime analysis really pretty in-depth. I also have the opportunity to do ride-alongs with the police department. So something I would urge Everyone to do and urge you aldermen your constituents to do as well I had one other item. I wanted to bring up Just in the last couple of days We have lost someone in our community that's made a pretty significant impact on our Probably almost every single teacher who currently works for Rockford Public Schools. And thousands who have already retired. We lost really a warrior for education and for educators in our community, and that is Molly Phelan. Molly Phelan began, she was actually born in Polo, but she began teaching after going to Northern Illinois University, teaching in Rockford and taught for several years. Then she became the Rockford Educators Association president. Then she also went forward and was on the Illinois Educators Association board. And then she also was a trustee for the Teachers Retirement System. I've had the opportunity in a number of times to visit with Molly over the years and I can say I was very happy I was not on the other side of the bargaining table from her, but I found her to be delightful in the instances that I've had encounters with and know that she would often just hold court at different restaurants in town. the number of people who would go up to her and just thank her for this or that was astounding. And so just want everyone to know that we lost a really significant person in our community. Is there other reports of officers? Alderman Hoffman. Thank you mayor. I really want to thank Blake Dietz from state line news For his wonderful reporting and helping us to finally decide in this city where five points is This was done with the help of Rob Rob will help me and we have the maps to prove Exactly where five points is which is at Alpine Newburgh? Broadway and Charles So thank you to Blake. Other reports? Alderman Bonner. Thank you, Mayor. I, too, wanted to take a moment to remember Molly Phelan. When I was at the Register Star, I worked with her quite closely, and I really enjoyed what we used to call information trades that sometimes we did over the phone and sometimes we felt needed to be done in person. So sometimes at their offices back when they used to be at Chuck E. Cheese and then in the Larson Darby building. And it was a time, you know, that was an era when the school district was embroiled in the desegregation case. So there was always so much, so many things going on in the school district that were shrouded in... I'll say secrecy, although Director Miles Myers would probably say legal confidentiality. But it was very difficult to report on what was going on in the school district in those times. And Molly was often very helpful in, you know, not necessarily being the quoted source, but directing you to somewhere where you could get the information you needed. Thank you. And then, you know, on the flip side, she was just a really hilarious, funny woman. I mean, she had a very dry and sort of, you know, caustic sense of humor that I thoroughly enjoyed. And I'm sure she did a lot of... Lot of grace as the mayor said a lot of great work and advocacy for teachers in Rockford and I'm she will be sorely missed and I don't think she's I mean her shadow still looms large I think over over the rea and And she has been I believe retired now for more than 10 years I also Lighter note I had held back on reporting on the Forward for Fun event in the 14th ward as others had, other council members have reported out on theirs because I had been promised a fill the pothole demonstration by Director Saunders, but after postponing that once because he was at a conference, he now about 40 minutes ago texted me claiming that the the pot hole bean game has now gone missing and he can't demonstrate it. So I think he should be required to file a report with Chief Red just to make sure that that's actually what happened but in any case, and I told him I was gonna have to make him blush and I can see that he is. It was a great event though. It was on the 26th of August. We had about 250 people attend. It raised $5,200 for nonprofit partners that were part of the event. Was the Friends of the Coronado, Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, Rockford Promise, Golden Apple Foundation, I'm drawing a blank, I'm missing somebody. In any case, I really want to thank everybody who participated and especially Lino's because it's their generosity in contributing and donating the food and beverage sales that allows the event to have a profit that then went to the non-profits. So I just would want to thank everybody who participated and everybody who attended. thanks other reports okay moving right along uh appointments remain made over next we'll go to motions and resolutions we have planning and development committee alderwoman wilkins i'm sorry thank you your honor item number one we have a committee recommends approval of the resolution of solidarity with the united auto workers uaw at general motors ford and stelantis excellent we have one item before us is there any discussion on that one item Alderman Durkee. Yeah, Your Honor. I would, I'm going to reiterate my strong objection to this. And like I said earlier in committee meeting, not sure what this is trying to accomplish. But again, I'm a little cynical. And I believe this is kind of a do-over. That the council did not support a PLA. And now we're virtue signaling by doing this. And it's kind of posturing. And it's actually conflicted because basically if we approve this, we're basically saying to Detroit, we support you, but Rockford, we don't support Rockford. It's a double-minded resolution. It's not consistent. And I think even the local unions will see it for what it is, just pure virtue signaling. And again, I said, you know, union, yeah, join a union. You have a right to join a union. Do you have a right to strike? Sure. Absolutely. Okay. and let Stellantis and these guys flesh it out and take care of their own business. The interesting thing is this council, we had a strike at UPS just down the road. We have a large hub, quiet, nothing. We had Stellantis close, no resolution, nothing. So that is why I'm extremely cynical about why we're doing this. So I am, there's some things in the resolution that I have no idea what it means. I have no idea what a fair share is of anything. I know people think they know what it means, but you ask people to define it, they can't. So I don't know what that means. And then one of the lines in there is we're going to provide moral and material support. So I don't know what material support is. Are we going to send money? I don't know. So I really don't know what this trying to accomplish, but I think this sends a really poor message locally To our guys and gals And they now they what was the council stand for when it comes to labor? We're doing two different things strongly opposed to this. Thanks Yeah, so I wanted to address some of the comments made by the alderman first off I UPS did not strike they averted a strike And so in the idea of virtue signaling There was no need for one because UPS did not strike. They were able to work with their union In a fashion where they gave them You know the needed components for them to you know get by I I'll be honest. I was the one who initiated this and This resolution, it's been on my mind for a long time. When Stellantis, you know, decided that they were going to pack up shop, it's impacted a lot of Rockford families. I mean, I believe at least a quarter of their workers, possibly more, live here in the Rockford region, in Rockford. And so those families have been impacted greatly by the shutdown that Stellantis has done. And let's just be very clear there, is Stellantis wants to go ahead and do some things that I think will give some really nice paying jobs in the car industry and replace them with service level jobs. which I think will continue to impact the Rockford region and also the Belvedere region. I mean, let's just look at some facts. Pew Research, the gain in wealth at the top 1% is 88% gain in wealth since 2009. Since 2009, the working middle class has seen a 16% increase. I mean, our income inequality in this country has become such a problem that, you know, we have individuals who are, you know, basically aiding the inflation in this country, and it's impacting middle and working class individuals. The top 1% take in 21% of all income in America. Wow. The top 1% make 142 times more than the bottom 99%. That's really what this is about. And I reached out to the UAW president. I asked them if this would be something that they would be in support of. I figured they would be because it was something that they were putting out with communities. I think it's important that government take a stand when we see income inequality becoming an issue, and it's more so an issue now than ever. We saw that the costs of purchasing a new car have gone up 30% since COVID-19. We've seen CEO pay go up 40% for those companies. And we've seen UAW workers see 0% in wage increases. And so I think it's important for our families in the Rockford region to feel that support. And to address the issue about material support, I just think it's really, we should be very clear that the idea of material support is if they can't make their rents, If they can't afford their energy bill, that the city of Rockford has resources for those families that we would provide to any family. that is from the Rockford region. And so I think we can make those things clear that if they can't make those things possible for their families in this undue hardship, that there are resources here in Rockford and that they can take us up on those and come in and talk to someone to see what available resources we have. I don't think that's virtue signaling I think that's standing up for working-class citizens and for the citizens that are currently going through hardship with This does still on this plan. Thank you. Thank you other comments Frost thank you. And I um with regard to any alderman's position on and a variety of issues I think maybe in officers reports or obviously one can have a Their own opinions, but we're really getting outside the lane of the Rockford City Council here I mean addressing income equality on a national level. I mean It's just it's beyond our purview discussing, you know having a whereas paragraph on record profits of the car automobile industry over the last decade or compensation or record compensation or ceo compensation these are not things that are germane to us here at the city council and i just don't feel that then putting it into uh a resolution like this is really something that we should be doing or starting uh A precedent we don't control these items I'm not saying that some of these things may or may not be true They're just not things that we should resolve to vote on here whether or not we are in favor we're not a strike what one thing that I'm Concerned about as a someone on the City Council though It is whether or not the Stellantis plant reopens or not. And although we may not have a lot of say in and control over that, we do represent several employees that have been shuttered, been out of work. And I guess my intent is hopefully, through negotiations that we're not part of, is that somehow, way, shape, or form, the Bellevue plant reopens for the benefit of the employees and the community as well. And I just don't know the position on passing a resolution like this on whether or not that's going to help or hinder the reopening from Stellanus. I understand that that decision would not be something probably that may or may not be reached between the UAW and Stellanus themselves. It could be a negotiation tool to reopen a particular plant, but I don't want to have any reasons to chase away a major employer and say yeah, look, those you know those folks in rockford have taken a hard stance on this but but again that that's my uh selfish interest but overall uh i just don't think the the the issues that have been brought forward although they may be real um you know income inequality is just something that really is not something that we as a council should shouldn't frankly ever address thank you so i i would just add a couple of thoughts one we do address income inequality almost every monday night we gather in some form or fashion two i would argue there were a lot of things in the turnaround agenda that some members of this body uh supported several years ago which was really more of a campaign and propaganda thing than a resolution supporting individuals uh three i think you bring up a wonderful point or a wonderful point has been brought up regarding Stellantis plant. You all have supported the North COG with a small monetary amount, the Council of Government that was created that COG in conjunction with Region One Planning Council, with the land bank, with other partners, and I'm not saying this to overblow what, or boost up what that COG has done, but I would say I'm proud that I'm chair of it, We have met with Durbin, Duckworth, Sorenson, LaHood, pulled in, spoken with Governor Pritzker. We have spoken with Deputy Governor Menard. We have pulled in their experts when it comes to electrification of vehicles. And I would say that North Cog is representing the city of Rockford well and representing the interests of  hundreds if not thousands of people who have called Stellantis plant home for employment and actively Putting anything that we as a council of governments on the table to say we are here open for business to open you up And I was not aware that the alderman Reached out to the UAW president. I think that's good. I I Personally don't know if the Stellantis CEO is gonna know that we did this But I did reach out to Mayor Morris of Belvedere, who has had conversations directly with Stellantis, and asked, would it be appropriate? Would this have any negative impact? And the answer was unequivocally, absolutely not. Support the people who work in that facility. And this was one way. And actually wanted the language of it. So that's my more than two cents. Sorry. Alderwoman Meeks, did you have your hand raised? Alderman weeks. Yeah, I just wanted to say and I know it probably doesn't matter but I don't appreciate any Alderman Durkee's comments at all. I can equally say I support. You want to direct those to me? Yeah, I'll direct it to you. I don't appreciate Alderman Durkee's comments. I can support Labor and I can also support UAW. I've worked closely with Labor. I've worked closely with UAW with my time at United Way. And I can appreciate what they're going through in this particular struggle. I remember having a conversation with Bill about this particular item, and I'm in support of it. And I don't feel bad about supporting this item, and I don't believe that it's a virtue signal at all. It came before me, and it's something that I think we should consider since we're doing first all the time now on council. So thank you. Thanks. Before we continue, I'm just going to read off an email that Director Myers graciously sent to us on September 11th as a reminder of some relevant rules, directing all questions and remarks to or through me, the chair, refraining from attacking a member's motives. Confining remarks to the merits of the pending question avoiding the use of members names so then Comment them as the alderman of the first ward or the eighth ward or whatever it may be I'm saying that so I don't get yelled at after this alderman Durkee. Thank you your honor just a matter of clarification Never said I was opposed to labor. I'm in AFSCME 31, so I am in a union I'm opposed to the nature and what I suspect is the purpose of Behind this resolution or this whatever we're doing. Thanks other comment Alderman Beach Thank Your Honor. I just want to ask this question this if this resolution Wasn't here what services wouldn't we offer? Any family regardless where they work if they were in need there's a host of services that our Health and Human Services team provides One, we would get them connected with the Workforce Connection because many believe that that process is pretty strenuous and can be a little bureaucratic. Two, and Director Parham correct me, energy bill assistance for those who are in need. Do you want  maybe I'll just turn it to you as opposed to me trying to remember each and every one. So any individual who is then income eligible for our other services They could apply for those so that would include utility assistance rental assistance Thank you, no other questions no other comments fantastic clerk. Could you please call the roll? frost Karina Pratty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Marios Meeks Bailey and Donnie. Seven ayes, five noes. Excellent. Thank you. That's approved. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Tarina. The committee recommends approval of the parking fee waiver request for a term of five years, 2024 to 2028, for the Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses held at the BMO Center. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Erke. Erke. Bras. Aye. Tarina. Prati. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Aye. Banning. Aye. Suelvall. Excellent next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee alderman frost. Thank you I number one the committee recommends approval award a bid for snow removal for police parking lots and sidewalks This is no systems for an estimated annual value of $60,000 the contract duration is through September 30 2024 with four possible one-year extension options annual price adjustments for CPI We consider the contract renewal only the funding sources the property fund operating budget charge back to police number two the committee recommends approval of an award a bid for the FOR CITYWIDE SIDEWALK AND AD REPAIR PACKAGE NUMBER 3 TO DPI CONSTRUCTION IN THE AMOUNT OF $241,153.75. THE PROJECT IS ESTIMATED TO BE DONE BY NOVEMBER 3, 2023. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE 1% INFRASTRUCTURE SALES TAX. number three the committee recommends approval of joint purchasing contract facility maintenance repair and operation supplies and firefighting personnel protective equipment to granger industrial supply for an annual value of sixty thousand dollars based on unit pricing the contract duration is through december 31 2024 with four possible one-year extension options the funding sources are various departmental operating budgets thank you thank you we have uh three items from for us any discussion on those three items clerk will you please call the roll Durkee Aye Frost Aye Cherina Aye Conte Aye Wilkins Aye Hoffman Aye Rose Aye Feet Aye Battyhouse Aye Me Bailey They're Batty. 11 ayes. The aye you heard was Alderman Bailey walking through the door. Oh, okay. So that's 12 ayes. Okay. Thank you. Those are approved. Next we'll go to new business. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, an ordinance approving the 2040 City of Rockford Comprehensive Plan. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one. One second. Does that need to be voice vote? Yes. No. We'll call vote. All right. I'm sorry. That's what I meant. Thank you. Okay, we're going to go back. That's my fault. My apologies. Under new business planning and development, we had an ordinance approving the 2040 City of Rockford Comprehensive Plan. I did a voice vote. We should have done a roll call vote. My apologies. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Pronti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Radios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Bonney. Aye. Storvise. Aye. Excellent. Thank you. Now we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Elder Woman Trina. Thank you. Item number one, an ordinance establishing yield control on Berkeley Street prior to entering the intersection of Foster Avenue. Number two, an ordinance establishing yield control on Berkeley Street prior to entering the intersection of Webster Avenue. 3. An ordinance requiring traffic on 8th Street to stop prior to entering the intersection with 17th Avenue. 4. An ordinance requiring traffic on 12th Street to stop prior to entering the intersection with 13th Avenue. 5. An ordinance approving a variation to modify a 50x72 reader board to allow for a 41x75 reader board. electronic graphic display sign on an existing legal non-performing freestanding sign in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 1601 East Riverside Boulevard number six In ordinance approving a special use permit for a gas station, convenience store, and truck stop in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 1509, 1551, 1541, and 15XX Sandy Hollow Road. Number seven, in ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 301 North Madison Street. number eight was laid over number nine in ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum permitted business identification wall signs from two to five for urban mixed use residential zoning district at 300 elm street Number 10 an ordinance approving a variation to increase the square footage of an existing freestanding monument style sign along I-90 from 257 square feet 303 square feet in a variation to increase the height from 28 to 23 10 for an existing freestanding monument style sign along I-90 in a C 3 general commercial zoning district at 3535 North Bell School Road and 11. An ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar and grill and video gaming terminals in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 501 and 517 15th Avenue. 12. An ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 805 East State Street. 13 an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 3420 East State Street 14 an ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels and an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 2701 North Springfield Avenue 15 an ordinance approving the pre annexation agreement for 2701 North Springfield Avenue Okay, so a couple of items here, counsel. 14 and 15, you're not voting on. You've already voted that down. Item 8 is laid over, and item 12 has been amended by Alderman Barrios. So we have 12 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 12 items? No discussion. Clerk, please call the roll. Nerky? No. On 10. Frost? Aye. Carina? Ante? Wilkins? Hoffman? Rose? No. Beach? I'm sorry. Aye. No, no. One second. Alderman Beach, what was your vote? No on 11. No on 11. Aye on the rest. Thank you. Alderman Darius, was it an aye? It was an aye. Meeks? Bailey? Aye. Bonnie? No on 11. We have 12 ayes on 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 12, and 13. Excuse me. And we have 9 ayes, 5 noes on number 5. Aye. Three no's, I'm sorry. Three no's and nine ayes are number five. Number 10, we have 11 ayes and one abstain. Number 11, we have 11 ayes and one no. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. number one is an orange approving the city state railroad agreement for railway highway grade crossing improvements the agreement outlines the funding of the estimated 191 727 000 project and shall be 100 covered by the great crossing protection funds with no cost to the city number two is an orange approving the purchase agreement between the city of rockford and alabama development for the purchase of the of the building at 215 South Madison for $55,000. Number three is an ordinance approving the purchase agreement between the City of Rockford and Oliver Emerson Development for the purchase of 134 North Main Street for $70,000, which is the appraised value of the property. Number four is an ordinance approving the release of liens on certain Winnebago County trustee properties. And number five is an ordinance approving the release of a lien at 307 North Hinkley Avenue for the total amount of $2,909. I place these five minutes before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So item five, we don't need to vote on either as well. You've already voted that down. So we have four items before us. Is there any discussions on those four items? That's items one, two, three, and four. Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee, Tarina, Pronte, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Fonny. That's 12 ayes. On all of it, one, two, and three. Thank you. I'll also just say, Clerk Sheila, thank you so much for your work tonight. I think Chas must have looked at, our regular clerk for those at home, must have looked at the 12-page agenda and said, it's a good day to take a vacation day. And on top of that, we still get one other really fun item in closed session. So thank you for your work. Is there a motion to go into closed session? Yes. I move that we convene in a closed session to discuss litigation matters. And labor negotiation. And labor negotiation. So we have a motion, second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Okay, we'll be back. Okay, now that we're back into open session, clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Alderman Durkee. Alderman Frost. Alderman Tarina. Alderman Pronte. Alderman Pronte. Alderman Wilkins. Here. Alderman Hoffman. Here. Alderman Rose. Here. Alderman Beach. Here. Alderman Barrios. Here. Alderman Meeks. Alderman Bailey. Here. And Alderman Bonney. Here. We also have Alderman Durkee and Alderman Frost who are with us now as well. Oh, they're here. Okay. Twelve present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to adjourn? No motion. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Nothing. Nothing. Okay. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed have a good night.