Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford Special City Council meeting for Tuesday, October 15th, 2024. Could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Bogeman. Toomber. Here. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Beach. Here. Barrios. Here. Meeks. Here. Bailey. Here. 13 present excellent. We have nothing under planning and development or code and regulation committee So we'll go to the finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. I'm sorry. I don't have an agenda There are three items. Number one is an award of bid for lead service line replacement program phase 7 to N-TRAC in the amount not to exceed $4 million. It is a one-year contract. The funding source is the IEPA State Revolving Loan Fund. Number two is a bid for Edgebrook phase 4 water line main replacement to N-TRAC in an amount of $2,629,543.24. The contract reaches through the fall of 2025 and the funding source is The water replacement improvement account number three is an award of it for the buck be channel storm repair package To end track in the amount of two hundred eighty thousand one hundred and forty four dollars and one cent The contract ration is through November 29 of 2024 and the funding source is the CIP general fund I place these three matters before you Thank You alderman frost comes. We have three items before us Is there any discussion on those three items other woman mix? Thank you so much your honor. Um Can someone help me understand kind of the bidding Process here because from what I see and track was the highest amount I don't know from what I see and Yet they were the ones that were selected. Thank you, and then I kind of noticed the unit pricing was Adjusted for n track but not adjusted for the other bid so I just kind of wanted to understand that a little better. I Thank you. Director Hagerty? Yes. The N-TRAC was adjusted based on our, I presume you're talking about lead service, the lead service award. N-TRAC was adjusted, actually this is the first time we've utilized our local preference that city council approved a few years ago. They opted to have their bid price, their unit price reduced up to 5%, 5%. to match the low bid, which was five-star plumbing out of Waukesha. We adjusted that amount based on their option to select that. So our purchasing ordinance says that in the case of a tie, which once we make the adjustment, we then have a tie, the low bid gets awarded to the local vendor over a non-local vendor. So, N-TRAC was adjusted. They elected to have their price reduced. There was a very, very small price difference to begin with from their original bid amount. So, that unit price is what we're awarding based on. So, for each individual service total, the base bid of $9,819.66 is what we're awarding based on. I believe the final award includes some contingency items that were required by IEPA to include pricing on just in case we need to use them. And that is the basis for the final award, but we are awarding based on the that unit price and the the total that The total expected spend based on that unit price now one other question when we're dealing with This bidding process is there in this kind of eligibility process? Is there anything? awarded to local businesses So Rockford local I mean so by Definition in our ordinance a local is Winnebago County. Okay. Thank you so much. You're very welcome Is there any other questions on the three items before us or could you please call the roll? Logoman timber frost Tarina printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Bailey 13 eyes excellent is there a motion to adjourn we have a motion we have a second any discussion no discussion all those