Chaz, are you ready? I'm ready, Chaz. Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled Monday, October 18, 2021 City Council meeting. As we begin every meeting, is Chaplain Norma Barrero with us?
 Chaplain Alderman Frank Beach, would you be willing to provide us an indication? Thank you so much. Father God, it's always a privilege to come to you recognizing you're the creator, Lord of all. Lord, you guide us and direct our paths each day, and we're grateful. And we commit this meeting now to you, Lord, those that are here, our colleagues, our staff, our mayor, our police and fire, and those first responders. For those especially in our community, Lord, tonight that are suffering, that have lost, guide and give them strength.
 Thank you for this time, this hour, to serve you in this way. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Prenti. Hoffman. Here.
 Rose, Beach, Quinones, Bonnie. Nine present. Excellent. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 7, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have proclamations. We have two proclamations this evening. One is that we have a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 7, 2021.
 Our first proclamation, I would ask if Major General Borling would please come forward. First, thank you for joining us this evening. I want to say a special thank you to your wonderful wife for joining us as well, Myrna. Thank you for being here.
 Whereas retired U.S. Air Force Major General John Boylan is a highly decorated war hero who served as a fighter pilot during the Vietnam War and was a prisoner of war for seven years.
 And whereas General Borling continued to serve his country as White House Fellow under the Gerald Ford Administration, and later commanding and directing many sensitive defense operations. And whereas before retiring in 1996, General Borling was central to the creation of the Allied Forces North in Norway, and served as Chief of Staff of the Integrated NATO National Command. And whereas as a civilian, General Borling
 has remained active with numerous business ventures and speaking engagements. He served as president of the Chicago area United Way and authored Taps on the Wall, a collection of the poetry he wrote while being a prisoner of war. And whereas, established in 1964, the Order of Lincoln honors Illinois residents whose hard work, innovation, and determination uplifts every community in the state.
 And whereas Governor Pritzker has chosen Major General Don Borling to be one of the eight 2021 Lincoln Laureates, a recipient of the Order of Lincoln Award, the state's highest honor for professional achievement in public service. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, do hereby proclaim and have the honor to do so to call October 18th, 2021 Major General John Borling Day.
 So thank you. General Borling, your entire life has been about service to others. And we are so honored that you and your amazing wife called Rockford home. We appreciate not just the works and the dedication you've given to our country and our community in the past, but how both of you continue to give to our city. It is a real honor for me to provide you with a key to this city and just say thank you for the work that you do.
 The mayor comments that I can indulge the council with a few comments. I'm grateful to do so. My wife, Myrna, already recognized, and I have, like everyone in this room, had the rewards and the punishment that life brings us. The rewards, I can claim some, few anyway, have been earned. But Myrna, who's been my wife for 58 years and girlfriend a good deal longer, has been instrumental, as Mayor McNamara suggested,
 We're neighbors, so he had gotten to know us a good time. In fact, I remember when John McNamara knocked at my door when the mayor was running, and I turned him away later to become a big supporter, as he is of the city and as you all are. Work where the rubber meets the road. I'm reminded that Chief Carla and I go back to moments when recognition has been important for some folks
 And I was trying to think what I might offer in just two minutes that would be of interest to the Council. And I thought of two people. I thought of my grandfather, and I thought of a classmate of mine from the Academy. I graduated in 1963, and my classmate, honorary classmate if I may, was JFK, John Fitzgerald Kennedy. You didn't know that. He was the
 graduation class and as part of that we offered him an honorary membership in our class not knowing if we're not we're backing him into a corner we were but he accepted with alacrity and i'm reminded that on his wedding night 1953 years before 10 years before it is reported that jacqueline kennedy asked him what kind of man are you jack kennedy and you're wondering how i'm going to get out of this one but the uh
 He responded apocryphally that he was an idealist without illusions. And I've often thought that people who run for and are successful in public office and who give of their heart and substance to the communities or greater instrumentalities have to remember that that's what they are. They're idealists without illusions. And so I have kind of used that as a watchword. And the other person I thought of was my grandfather.
 who shook hands with Buffalo Bill in Jackson Park. We grew up on the south side of Chicago. He saw World War I and the advent of military aviation. He saw the Depression. He saw World War II and the advent of high speed aviation, propeller aviation. He saw Korea and jet aviation, which I'm later going to take part in. He saw Vietnam start. He saw a man go to the moon, and then he died from Buffalo Bill
 to a man on the moon in one man's lifetime. And all the stresses on this nation that have been borne out and surmounted, some more than others, but always with that notion that the hill, though it is steep, that a representative democracy, sometimes with a free economy, will triumph. And we are, in fact, having lived all over the world, the place where people want to come to. And so I return to Kennedy in concluding remarks. Again, watchword.
 kinds of thoughts when he uttered those phrases at his inaugural about, think not what you can do, think not what your country can do for you, but think what you can do for your country. I'm not sure I'm deserving of the order of Lincoln, but I will try to be so marching on in the future with the example that Rockford is and will ever be a place we call home and a city that works. Thank you very much. Thank you, General Borland.
 Next, we have a proclamation, American Pharmacist Month, and I believe we have Dean Ratna as well as some students with us. Whereas, pharmacy is one of the oldest of the health care providers dedicated to the health and well-being of all people.
 Whereas today there are over 270,000 pharmacists licensed in the United States and nearly 18,000 pharmacists in Illinois providing service and health care counseling to assure the rational and safe use of all medications with the help of 38,000 pharmacy technicians. And whereas.
 The use of medication as a cost-effective alternative to more expensive medical procedures is becoming a major force in moderating overall health care costs. And whereas today's powerful medications require greater attention and safety to the manner in which they are used by different patient population groups.
 both clinically and demographically. And whereas the American Pharmacists Association and the Illinois Pharmacists Association have declared October as American Pharmacists Month with the theme, Know Your Medicines and Know Your Pharmacists. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 2021 American Pharmacists Month. Would you guys like to share a few words? You sure you don't? We went through that. Thanks.
 Thanks Mayor, thanks Council. I'm Kevin Rund, I'm the Dean of the Pharmacy School. Not everybody knows that Rockford actually has a University of Illinois campus and a pharmacy program here. So certainly the theme is know your medicine, know your pharmacist. Our student pharmacists that I wanted to thank for making this happen today, they are all over the community. Whether it's in your Walgreens or your CVS's or downtown discount drugs,
 Mercy, Swedes, OSF, Crusader Health. So they do service the people at Rockford and are really proud and happy to do that. So if you're in any of those environments and you see our students and or their logos, say hello. And we just want to thank you today for this proclamation. Yes, we are all well aware we have University of Illinois School of Medicine and very appreciative of all the benefits you provide. Thank you.
 Next up, we will go to Petitions and Communications and Planning and Development. Alderman Durkee, would you be so kind as to provide us those this evening? Number one, under Planning and Development, memorandum from Carl Franson, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the proposed request to the U.S. Economic Development Administration for the De-Federalization of the City's Revolving Loan Fund.
 This will be referred to the Planning and Development Committee. Number two, a memorandum from Francesca French, Economic Development and Diversity Procurement Coordinator, regarding the proposed forgiveness of the CDBG-CV microenterprise loans. This also will be referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, your honor under the one zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on October 19th, 2021 and minutes from that meeting for consideration. At the code and regulations committee meeting on October 25th, 2021 referred to code and regulation committee.
 Item 2 is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on October 19th, 2021, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 25th, 2021, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 3, the memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the 2022 City Council and Committee's calendar schedule, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Item 4, a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding consideration of an application to modify an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Rockford Billiard Cafe, Inc., located at 1434-1436 North Main Street, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 A memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager regarding a plan of Rockford Peaches PUD Subdivision, referred to Code and Regulation Committee under Item 5. Item 6 is a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed amendments to Section 3-5-4, Paragraph 13 of the Rockford Code of Ordinances regarding persons and premises not licensed, referred to Code and Regulations Committee.
 Item 7, a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the pre-annexation of 4130 Blackhawk Road, 584535th, referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. And Item 8, a memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager Permits and Special Events regarding upcoming special events, which include the Dasher Dash, Snow Market, and Greentown Rockford Conference, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Thank you alderman rose next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you. Your honor First is a memorandum from lisa warren head start director regarding the head start early head start carryover request And acceptance of the cares act funding And number two is a member from carl fran franzen community and economic development director regarding the proposed release of liens on certain winnebago county trust
 trustee properties to facilitate the sale to the highest bidders. Both these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up is public speakers. I want to remind each of our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of council chambers.
 You have three minutes to address the City Council and you'll hear an obnoxious cell phone ring I just ask that you complete your comments first public speaker this evening is Michael O'Toole Your McNair and City Council I last addressed you on September 7th. I think only on
 to city council people were absent in person that date. So for their benefit, I'll remind you what I said then and am speaking about again tonight. It's illegally obtained revenue since 2015 in Mulford Park apartment complex.
 when the city council had, in 2015, amended a city ordinance regarding no parking signage in that apartment complex where I live. But the public works department had not removed the no parking signage until August of this year. I don't hold the police department accountable. They were just doing their jobs. But the city council had asked to do the right thing, the ethical thing, the moral thing.
 to refund the fines from tickets that were illegally issued and to return that revenue back to the residents that paid those illegal ticket fines. Ma'am McNamara, after I had spoken, you had wanted me to speak with the legal department person, Kari Haggerty, which I did outside the hallway. In my conversation with her,
 She had acknowledged that the city council had amended an ordinance back in 2015. I was led to believe that the city council was going to do the right thing in returning that revenue to those of us, including myself, that had paid fines that we shouldn't have had to pay. She had wanted to talk to me that same week. My understanding was that she was going to call me. I gave both my cell phone number and my home phone number.
 When I didn't hear from her, I had left three voice messages from her and didn't hear from any of those voice messages from her. When I got here tonight, she had a representative who was sitting in the back of the room in the corner there approach me to speak to me out in the hallway. I had to let him know that I would do that after I addressed the city council. So again, I'm asking the city council, please do the right thing. It's a question of trust.
 and our local city government to do what they know they should, what I believe you know you should be doing. You have no right to illegally gain revenue. My management office at Mulford Park had sent all of us residents a memo in August informing us that the signage was kept up in air. So again, I ask you, please do the right thing.
 Return that illegally gained revenue back to the residents of Mo Perkins. Thank you, Mr. O'Toole. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tackbrand. Good evening, Tom McNamara, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Excuse me. I want to take a page out what the General just said. When he talked about John F. Kennedy, John F. Kennedy said, do not ask what your country can do for you, but what can you do for your country? I said on many occasions, don't ask what Rockford can do for you, but what can you do for Rockford? Renewal Turning Point have always been on the front line for the past 17 years. And then taking a page out of the 60s.
 the food program, the clothing program, the after school program, the medical program was all established by the Black Panther Party that's now run by government entities. Crusader Clinic was founded by the Black Panther Party that's now run by the government entities. So walk a mile in my shoe.
 trust trust our peoples have a very little trust in our government when it comes to telling the truth the world drugs is still going on to this day i was informed that if i talk about rafa regrowth that i would be blackballed if this is true then great that's the community will see who's really supporting us and those who only want to control us systematic racism is alive and well here in
 So who picked who sit on the board? Are any of the board members on the board are people that live on the west side of the river, single moms, ex-offenders, and so on and so forth? We are not talking about our bourgeoisie or sell-outs.
 approved robbery growth reinvested energized give restore opportunities grant programs is aimed at helping minority communities impact the war on drugs the city official back in June 28 announced the gap 400 to
 uh 400 million dollars worth of 400 funds for the cannabis family grant called the rafa regrow it's aimed to support project support projects that promote economic development reduce gun violence provide job training and improve the lives of those disproportionately affected by the cannabis
 prohibition our University Center right now is in the first phase of opening up a 24-hour daycare center that we working on as we speak and having a backer to support that we have another 29 point plans that we working on and we have sponsors that's going to support it so I'm not upset if we don't get any funds from the regrowth but the regrowth is if you say it's supposed to be about health
 those on the west side of the river, why not work with us? We're going to do this with or without you. We still, we have a strong relation with the police department, the YMCA, the YWCA. We got all the communities helping us. But here I want to go back to what the one brother said when he said,
 Let me find real quick before I my time right now. David Banner is fed up with black communities addicted to white people's approval in alignment with the city of Rockford resolution. Twenty twenty one seven hour to Rockford. OK, I'll finish next week. Thank you. Our next public speaker, our next public speaker this evening is Arnett Anderson.
 Hi, I came to speak about the regrow program and about the African American resource center at Booker. This we during the summer we were able to provide close to 200 people with jobs in our community to help small businesses grow. We were able to give those people $20 an hour for 20 hours of work a week and it was for people who were disproportionately disenfranchised, people who were affected by the cannabis laws.
 That program ended and so the funding for that ended. We are seeking so that we are able to get that. It's not much, but it will help us to be able to give those stipends to the people who are in our force, start strong, finish strong program. I did bring somebody who finished the program last time, and maybe she could speak for just a moment about how it helped her. Ms. Bapa. She's on the thing. Hello.
 I was in their program last year. It did help me. As a result of it helped me. I am a full time staff now at AARC. It helped with confidence. It was able to give me that extra push to move forward to keep going. I'm also looking into starting my own business. I'm not exactly sure just yet, but I'm working on some ideas with the kids. I am a single mother and
 So when you are single and you got a little bit of extra to help you along the way, it gives you a little bit of confidence to keep going. And I think that the city should really support AARC with what they want to do to help with the parents and the people that's trying to make their lives better. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public. I'm sorry. Our next public speaker this evening is Synovia Adams-Love. Thank you.
 Our next public speaker this evening is Bobby Chapman. Well, fancy that. Thank you. Thank you to all the public speakers this evening. Next up, we will move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose.
 thank you your honor item one under b the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the city of rockford liquor code for a new sip and shop liquor license classification class ss the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you alderman frost got a motion to lay this matter over we have a motion we have a second so that's uh two alderman rules so it's automatically laid over thank you
 Next, we'll go to back to Alderman Frost for finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of vouchers the amount of $7,192,697.88 as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting held on October 12th, 2021. I believe that is the only matter on the finance and personnel committee. Thank you. So Alderman, we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Logaman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Frunze. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beech. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. Twelve ayes. Excellent. Item passes next. We will go to unfinished business and we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a freestanding sign for a non-residential use in a residential district from 48 square feet to 57 and a half square feet along North Alpine Road in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 4405 Highcrest Road. Subject to two conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Thank you. So, Alderman, this item's been before you, I believe now, three times at least.
 I'd ask that you again hold it out. We have all the proper documentation that they will not need a variance with their new plan We just need them to simply withdraw their old plan and we've had a difficulty getting getting that getting Communication to them to withdraw that so if you wouldn't mind if there's no objection I would like to hold that item out again. Is there any objection to me holding that item out? I
 thank you appreciate your patience with that uh we'll move our officers reports right to the end here uh appointments aren't up until the 27th so we'll go to motions and resolutions and we'll go to code and regulation committee back to alderman rose
 Under item 1, the committee recommends approval on stroll on state. This event is scheduled for Saturday, November 27, 2021 from noon to 9 PM in downtown Rockford, bordered by Jefferson street. Church street chestnut street and 3rd street. The event perimeter will begin at.
 6 a.m the parade step off time is 1 55 p.m other festivities include tree lighting and fireworks item two the committee recommends approval of the spooky stroll this event will take place on sunday october 31st 2021 from 11 a.m to 4 p.m on at 3 33 east state street thank you alderman rose so council we have uh two items before you is there any discussion on those two items
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Or items passed, sorry. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of the RFP for IT services to Diapath LLC of Schaumburg in the amount of $1,318,000.
 $348.08 the contract duration is a two-year initial term with three annual one-year options to renew the funding sources the information technology fund number two the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for the water division cost
 of service rate study to Burns and McDonald Engineering of Downers Grove in an amount not to exceed $68,155. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the water fund operating budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for compound water meter supplies to Core and Main LP of Belvedere. And for an estimated annual amount of $200,000, the contract duration is one year. The funding source is the water fund operating budget.
 Number four the committee recommends approval of an award of a non-competitive contract for the mechanical water meter supplies the badger meter of Milwaukee for Estimated estimated annual value of two hundred thousand dollars. The contract creation is also one year the funding source is also the water fund operating budget and
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract for the automated meter reading endpoint supplies and services to United systems of Ben, Kentucky. For an estimated annual value of 200 dollars. $200,000 based on unit pricing, the contract duration is 1 year and the funding sources again, the water fund operating budget. Number 6, the committee recommends approval of the resolution for the forgiveness of lead service line replacement program loans.
 in the amount of $5,984.64. I place these six matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Council, we have six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. McNeely. Aye.
 Thank you. Bonnie, 12 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to new business, and we'll go back to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose? I believe all of them have been laid over. You are accurate. So now we'll go to officers' reports. Is there any aldermen who have reports? Alderman Rose? Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to say thank you to all of the volunteers and volunteers.
 Those that helped with the Mel Anderson slow roll event that that occurred this last Sunday. We had a host of financial supporters, but also city and just community that came around an event. Last year, we gave away approximately 72 bikes this year. We were down a bit, but we gave away 30 bikes to local residents. We had representation from.
 The RVC tech bus we had the arts Rockford area Arts Council transform Rockford Northwest neighbors the Rockford Police Department Donated a ton of time to that event in both planning it and being there on Bear Packer Sunday so I know that they were listening to the game, but I gotta say I
 Officers Warren and Burke did a fantastic job at that event and it was just nice to see the smiles of young kids walking away with a bike and just doing something outside. Something that we sometimes don't always see with video games and things of that sort.
 We just had a lot of support from our local pastors as well. Pastor Bowie over at Third Presbyterian, Pastor Griffin over at Halstead Baptist Church, and Pastor Lemonholm at Church of the Good Shepherd. So just wanted to say thank you to all those volunteers and people that helped make that happen. And we're looking forward to next year's event.
 awesome thank you it really was a great event uh any other uh reports uh alderman bonnie and then alderman mcneely thank you mayor um i know uh director saunders isn't used to sharing credit for thank yous but i have a lot of people to thank for a neighborhood association meeting that took place in at the district 3 headquarters besides director saunders your honor alderman hoffman uh
 uh dep or uh district chief nielsen or olsen from the nielsen that's a ways back also from the uh police department along with lieutenant uh wotton and cso dodd and fire lieutenant rotello our neighborhood specialist barb chidley and neighborhood stabilization officer jessica saunders
 We're all there to meet with residents of the of a as yet unbranded neighborhood. That is where the Buckbee Creek bank stabilization project that we approved a few weeks ago is located. And that is the neighborhood south of Harrison between Hillman School and Alpine.
 It was a very informative meeting for everyone I know, and I know they were appreciative of everybody's efforts. I look forward to working with them as what will be the only active neighborhood group in the 14th Ward, and I just would share the text message that I received from one of the residents saying,
 this morning and she said thank you for making sure I would attend the meeting it gave me a different perception of our community my sons want me to move out of Rockford but for now it's the cheapest place to live for our income hope I can make a difference so I just want to thank everyone for participating and I think we all know and agree that we're only as strong as a community as our neighborhoods and
 I hope wish this group well and hope to see more continue to form. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeil. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would like for us to recognize the passing of General Colin Powell. If we can take a moment of silence. Moment of silence. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any other reports, Alderman McNeil? No. Oh, okay. Sorry. Any other aldermen have reports?
 all right i'm not gonna wait any longer uh is there a motion to adjourn we got a motion we have a second anyone want to discuss that no all those in favor say aye aye those opposed same sign have a wonderful night