Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logan. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvins. Here. Rose. Here. Beech. Here. Quinones. Here. Hanley. Here. McNeely. Here. Chiarelli. Here. 12 present. Excellent. We have a quorum for this evening. Under new committee reports, we'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is the i-Fiber Contract Amendment to add a connection to the new police property evidence facility on Shepherd Trail. The total construction cost of the project is $45,022, and the total yearly recurring cost will be $8,400.
 This will bring the total recurring i-fiber contract to $97,800. The funding source is the Police Department operating budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place this matter before you. Thank you. There's one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion inside council chambers, is there any discussion online? I hear you. All orders are carried. No longer on the board. All orders are carried. All right.
 Sorry, okay. Alderman Charlie, do you have any questions? Alderman? Do you have any questions, sir? No, you're on it. Okay. Thank you. All the. Seeing no other questions, could you please call the roll? Logamon tumor. Herbie Irvin's rose. Beach, you know, and.
 Shirley. Aye. 12 aye.
 Next we will go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development or code and regulations We'll go back to finance and personnel alderman frost Thank you number one is a challenge order for the citywide street repairs group for the norwest construction of South Beloit The original contract amount was four hundred ninety six thousand six hundred and forty one dollars in the eighty three center Oh change orders thirty thousand dollars the police department question of the parking lot across the street district to be resurfaced and
 The parking lot is located on 10th Street. The final cost will be determined by final quantities measured in the field based on existing unit prices. The funding source is the sales tax and police department operating budget. Excellent, so we have one item before you. Is there any questions inside council chambers on that one item?
 Seeing no questions inside, Director Myers, is there any questions online? No. No questions online. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Yerkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irby. Aye. Irvins. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Twelve ayes. Aye.
 Next we'll go to new business and we'll go right back to finance and personnel alderman frost. Thank you There's an ordinance approving the i-fiber contract amendment to add a connection to the new police property and evidence facility and Shepherd Trail the total construction cost and
 for the project is forty five thousand twenty two dollars in total annual recurring cost be eighty four hundred dollars this will bring the total annual recurring i-5 or contract to ninety seven thousand eight hundred dollars the funding source is the police department operating budget i place this matter before you thank you we have one item before you is there any questions inside council chambers on that one item seeing no questions inside council chambers is there any questions online director meyers no
 No questions. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Cervelli. Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to officer's reports. Are there any aldermen inside council who has officer's reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 First, I would acknowledge that the Illinois Bank and Trust donated $20,000 to Lewis Lemon School. And I would also like to acknowledge Lloyd Robert Hawks passed away. It's been several weeks, but I wasn't aware of it. So I do want to acknowledge him. He was very dedicated to his community.
 Politically, he was always involved. His whole family was involved. So we're going to miss Mr. Hawks. That's it. Thank you very much. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Thank you. Are there others with officers' reports? Alderman Ervins. ALDERMAN ERVIN R. Thank you, Mayor. Your Honor, one, I think I've already spoken to you, and I wanted to express my
 condolences for your father and again I want to apologize publicly for our actions here at City Hall in regards to things that took place last week here on the property you know I think that it's dishonorable in our position as city staff to allow such things to take place in your absence in a moment of grieving I think that I
 I'm torn because you know I feel obligated to speak out and if not here then where if not me then who and if not now then when what we're seeing not only just locally but nationally is it is a tragedy you know our police I wish that I could brag today after the events of last week after City Council I found myself
 really just trying to play mediator just to receive unnecessary comments and disrespect and disregard for anything that I had to say as a city elected official here in the city of Rockford. I'm not necessarily trying to make anybody look bad or make enemies.
 But the people are demanding transparency and I've been instructed to not say anything to allow conversations to take place behind closed doors. And that's not transparency. That's not what the people are asking for. You know, it strikes me, you know, in my heart and it produces fear.
 You know, when those that we have elected and not elected, but hired and brought on to protect and serve aren't necessarily doing those two things, you know, and those two things to protect the people and to serve the people, you know, and to protect the people's rights and to serve them and to being able to accomplish those rights, you know, um.
 Again, it's a tragedy what's taking place in our nation between the separation of church and state. You know, I would agree, yeah, it may have been a little excessive with the many tents and the generators and all the other things. But, you know, if we're following the heart of Christ and the God that we trust that's written on the back of our dollar bill,
 then feeding the homeless and sheltering the homeless, feeding the hungry and clothing the poor, that's exactly what righteousness calls us to do, to serve. And in that aspect, I want to paint a picture. Instead of being on opposite sides of the line, that protest line, why is it that I can't find a picture or a report of the police working with the protesters? Yes.
 You know, the money that we're putting into overtime, why aren't we putting that into psych evaluations and making sure that our police officers are capable of taking on the challenges that they face? One of the excuses as to why the police officers couldn't, you know, I guess respect or listen to me at all was because they were so emotionally stirred up over things that were said and, you know, items that may have been thrown.
 It sucks. It comes with the position. It comes with the job. And unfortunately, that's what you signed up for. This is what you're being paid for. The taxpayer dollars are being spent on you to protect their rights, not to complain about the difficulties of the tasks.
 mentally if you're not equipped and prepared for it. You know, I was talking to Chief and he said, you know, we do do psych evaluations for initial recruitment, but there's no continued psych evaluations. Any individual that's encountered any traumatizing event overseas during war, they don't come back the same and they need mental help. What makes that any different than those that experience those same traumatizing events here at home?
 Any individual that wears that badge, they have an obligation to protect and serve. And any individual that is found in violation should be stripped of that authority because it's an abuse of an authority. It's a privileged authority that not many can possess because it requires such high level of quality, of excellence. Any job that I have ever worked for, anyone that
 abuses or does not conduct their job properly is released of that position. There shouldn't be special privileges. We're dealing with lives. We're dealing with children. We're dealing with parents. We're dealing with teachers. We're dealing with professionals who are only wanting to see justice. It doesn't make sense if the people have an issue with the police to send the police in an aggressive way
 to try to manage that situation. Again, I pose the picture of the police being on the same side. We were doing this community officer thing where we had the police officers living in the neighborhoods. Here on city council, city hall floor, we could have made a real good statement. We could have demonstrated for the entire city how city is working with police
 The people, the constituents, the ones that are crying, the ones that does not feel like they're being heard. It was a beautiful opportunity to capitalize on that. But because of lack of wisdom, a lack of understanding, a lack of sympathy or empathy or love, the Bible tells us we will be known by how we love one another. We're not demonstrating that.
 We're tearing away at each other, we're eating away at each other, and it sucks because we wanna produce good reports about the city of Rockford. But then we have this happening at our front doorstep, and then I'm told not to speak about it, but it's happening right at my front door. I can't help but to not mention this, because this is an experience that I've experienced all my life. The lack of respect
 or even an opportunity to speak when I'm speaking to my Caucasian counterpart. There's always an interruption, always a comment, always a let me shut you down from saying what you have to say or get off your chest or even be heard. The days of people being silent are soon coming to an end, and people want to be heard. We did these listening parties, and I'm wondering how much progress came from that.
 There's so much I really do want to say, but we really do need to, I don't know if we can do these psych evaluations. I was told to speak to you, Mr. Myers, but it's necessary. I mean, I don't want to blame the police officers for their actions. It's trauma. It's new. 2020 is affecting everybody differently.
 But it is completely necessary if our people already aren't getting these trauma centers that are police officers that are supposed to be managing all this. If they can't make sound decisions, not based upon their emotions, then they're not fit to be out on the field. That's just point blank, period. And I believe if we were to attack that situation.
 We will see much more peace in our protests if we were to demonstrate that we were for the protesters and not against them and not antagonizing and intimidating. I went downstairs. Listen, I've never been arrested. I've never caused trouble. But I've always I saw the police down there and I was intimidated and I had no reason to be intimidated.
 And I can only imagine with the lack of respect that was given to me when people are actually expressing their concerns, what type of walls are put up in that point.
 Again, I'm gonna refrain from even saying half the things that was mentioned to me as myself. You know, and I can only feel as though if I was one of my Caucasian counterparts, I would have had way more respect and there would have been way more respect on just the position of an alderman. The authority, the title alone demands that respect. But I feel like my, I feel like this right here made the world of a difference.
 and how I was treated, how I was received, and it shouldn't, it shouldn't. And you know, I really don't like coming out and talking and being on display like this, but I don't feel like I'm here for any other reason but to be a witness and to allow the Lord to really use my vocal to get some messages across. I challenge every individual, police, protesters, get it together, it's ridiculous.
 We need to be a community that knows how to demonstrate love. Love is not emotional, it's action. Love doesn't hold an account of doing wrong. Love does not, love is not rude, it's not mean, it's not forceful, it doesn't demand its way. When we're forcing rules without ordinances or laws, that is not love, that is not serving, that is not helping the situation. And
 we have to do better. We have to do better. There's people who are actually hurting people who have lost lives in our morning and they're looking for reconciliation. They're looking for healing. They're looking for for an answer and all we can offer him here on our grounds is chaos. That is unacceptable. All right, that's all. Thank you. Alderman urban, uh, alderman Timber and then alderman frost.
 Thanks, Mayor. Sure, I speak on behalf of council here and the mayor's office. We express our condolences to the Gasparini family on the sudden passing of Donnie Gasparini. I had the pleasure to get to know him a little bit while being back here in Rockford. And one of the things I will remember him is the Iwana program. If you're not familiar, it's a Christian youth program on Wednesday nights.
 and he was one of the volunteers, one of the volunteer fathers for that. And I just know from the time commitment it takes to be a volunteer within that organization as a father is a huge commitment.
 and it was fun to see him out there and really participating with the kids each Wednesday, and I'd go pick up my kid and see him there and running around and doing what a father... It's fun to see what a father would do. So very unfortunate, and I was wondering if we could have a moment of silence for Donnie Gasparini. Sir? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Foss. Uh, uh...
 Alderman Tuberg stole my thunder. I was going to ask for a moment of silence and my condolences to the entire Gasparini family for Donny Gasparini Jr.'s death. The sudden and unfortunate timing of Donny's death on Sunday was...
 It's really unfortunate. His family is a great family. He's done a lot for this community, and Donnie Jr. has done a lot as a public servant, as a deputy chief, and then, as Chad mentioned, a wonderful father to his two kids. He served so many. He always was happy. Whenever I'd see him at the courthouse, whatever the problem would be, he'd find a way to really resolve it smoothly, and he will be so missed by so many. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman McNeely, did you have your hand raised? Yes, I did. Thank you. I just want to say to Alderman Ervis that I wasn't aware of your incident, but the words that you spoke tonight I certainly appreciate. Hopefully you will never have to run into that situation again, whether you're an alderman or not. But thank you for speaking up and sharing that with us. Thank you. Any other reports inside council chambers?
 None. Mr. Meyer, is there reports online? Alderman Shirely? Yes, thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to say the same as Alderman Thunberg and Alderman Frost for the Gasparini family and the loss of Assistant Deputy Chief.
 Donnie Gasparini Jr. is a wonderful human being, father, police brother, sheriff brother. He's just an awesome individual. And my condolences to the Gasparini family. And I know it's a huge loss for our community and for the public service and public safety. So, again, thank you, Your Honor, for giving me this opportunity.
 A few other areas we would like to talk about. Thank you. Alderman Trelli any other officers reports on mine? Seeing none, we will move on as. Alderman frost, do you have an item that you would like to present since I've been speaking so much then I'll be the very bad news. I would move to convene into closed session. In order to discuss labor negotiation matters.
 Thank you. We have a motion before you to move into closed session. Is there any discussion on that? Well, I'm sorry. Is there a second to move into closed session? We have a motion. We have a second. I'm just thrilled that Alderman Hervey or Shirely didn't second it to urge us into closed session. So we have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Aye. Irvins? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? Shirelli? Aye. 12 ayes. Can we stay in, or do we have to sign out? You've got to sign out, and then I believe you're going to call in. No. No? I'm sorry. They just stay on the line. They what? They just stay on the line. Oh, I'm sorry. Alderman Herbie, you're correct. You just stay on. My apologies. Just stay on. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you.