Father, we ask that you would come visit this council meeting tonight. The decisions that are made for the city of Rockford and the residents will be the decision that would be best for them. And Lord, that the council members will be able to do what they feel is right for the community. We also ask, Father, that you would be with our police and fire departments as they protect us from fire and other dangers, Lord.
 We pray that you give them the safe conduct as they protect our city. And Lord, help them to be able to go home safely at the end of their day, as everyone else wants to do. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg.
 cheer really 11 present. Thank you very much for the quorum we have two journals that only acceptance the October 3rd October 11 2016 journals of proceeding for the city council special city council meetings that occurred so motion approved it's been a motion and a second to approve those two journals is there any discussion amendments or changes very none all those in favor of approving the two journals please signify by saying aye
 Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Our public speakers this evening, I'll remind, can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Psalms, the 41st chapter, the first verse, the psalmist says, "'Blessed is the man that helps the poor. The Lord would help him in time of trouble.'" What I want to speak about tonight, slave jobs and the crime factor.
 Good jobs create social stability. Dead-end jobs don't. I first encountered Bob Quetfield in the 60's. He went on to get a Ph.D. in sociology at Vanderbilt and a professorship at the University of Washington, where he has been for many years. Recently, he summarized his long career in the book, Get a Job.
 labor markets, economic opportunity, and crime. It examined the relationship between two things that public officials care a great deal about, jobs and crime. And looking at the link between labor stratification and crime, Quetfield devised jobs as the two types.
 Primary sector and secondary sector. Primary sector jobs offer decent pay, benefits, and opportunity for promotion. Secondary sector jobs don't. It offers dead-end jobs with low wages, no benefits, and high level of instability. Crutchfield bottom line, adult employment and primary sector jobs
 reduce crime while employment in secondary sector jobs don't. This is an important fact for public officials to recognize since much of the recent growth of the economy has been in the secondary sector jobs. Many young people derive as slave jobs. It is also important to recognize that while crime has been declining for decades, which is surely the result of better policing as well as demographics,
 The overall decline high, persistent high levels of crime in the black and hispanic community. The beauty of Crutchfield's work is that it offers insight into a world that many public officials have little actual knowledge of, but for which they nevertheless design and execute public policy. The most obvious policy response here is to make sure that jobs creation
 efforts are in primary sector jobs. Crutcheria believes that starts with education. For young people, school turns out to be the first functional quiver of a job. Children with high levels of attachment to their school. They like the school and are involved in this activity.
 I'm much less likely to be delinquent and much more likely to go on to primary sector jobs. But, crux real words that today's emphasis on testing and our aggravated school performance may lead to student behaviors or administrative outcomes that promotes hate towards schools and increase juvenile crime. The lesson here is that the continued growth of secondary sector jobs combined with education
 without regard to whether or not children like school may intertwine to surprise us in a few months with social unrest and perhaps even a new crime wave. A social bomb is getting ready to come to the United States of America.
 Arne Duncan, who used to be the Secretary of Education, said the same thing I said, and he had an article about me in the Chicago Tribune. Jobs that pay good wages, law crime, and if you give me 30 men or women, because I'm tired of hearing about crime in Rockford, if you give me 30 men or women,
 And they don't have to be in the military. With walkie-talkies, I can reduce the crime in 90 days in Rockford. And I'm going to tell you something else. That system that y'all use, the CompStat, is out of date. I know the man Jack Maple who invented that. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman.
 Three things. On the way here, I saw a prostitute on my corner working the street in back of my alderman's home and an illegally placed campaign sign on 9th Street. Three things I can guarantee you. The prostitute on my corner is gone, but she will return. The prostitute working in back of my alderman's home is gone, but she will return. And that illegally placed campaign sign that is on 9th Street will not be there in 24 hours.
 Clock tower shootings stop the violence and the silence. And again, what does this flag mean to you?
 Broadway needs boots on the ground. More crime on Broadway. No shock. The only surprise is that it was not recorded in the media. Why? Perhaps it's because crime on Broadway is expected and no longer considered newsworthy. Last week, the cigarette store at Broadway and 9th, right across the street from my alderman's home, was again robbed in broad daylight for the third or fourth time this year.
 In fact, this same cigarette store continues to sell single cigarettes, which is against the law, but that's okay. It's expected to happen on Broadway.
 I realize that selling single cigarettes is a minor crime, but over the last year, I have been before this body telling you in detail of all of the crime and nefarious activities that continue to happen on a daily basis, and nothing gets done. And I do mean nothing. Thank you.
 If I have to, I will repeat to you the crimes that happen on Broadway, give you the addresses and the people to whom I have reported said activities. Believe me, it will not be pretty and I will not be the only one. The other day, I got this from the O'Reilly Factor starring Bill O'Reilly, Channel 41. Tip of the day.
 When you can't solve a problem, accept it. However, let the folks know what's going on. Yes, you might be called a whiner, but getting the truth out there is more important, is it not?
 And speaking of the truth, or lack thereof, you guessed it, Hillary Clinocchio, in hiding for the last week, will not speak to reporters on all of the damning emails provided by WikiLeaks. If and when she speaks about them, I'm sure everyone will believe her. But what is really upsetting is the selective feigned moral outrage from Michelle Obama and John Kerry, another failed Secretary of State, and Hillary Clinocchio.
 about the things that Trump has said. As I've told you before, what Trump says may hurt your feelings, but Hillary's actions get people killed. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Finally, on the hazardous household waste thing, some time ago when they were quite busy with dumping of the paint, they now no longer take paint, there's three or four guys out there that stand around doing nothing for most of the day. Why can't one person...
 be hired to oversee and then we either get volunteers or we get people who must serve community service to work there. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor Marcy, our arguments, all the women and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Proverbs 28, 13, it's a human nature to hide our sins or overlook our mistakes, but it's hard to learn from a mistake you don't acknowledge making. And what good is a mistake if it doesn't teach you something? To learn from an error, you need to admit it, confess it, analyze it, and make adjustments so that it doesn't happen again.
 Everybody makes mistakes, but only a fool repeats them. Everlast of Republicans criticized the dissenters upon Donald Trump after a video released Friday showing the party nominee making indefensible comments about oneness. Statements from some of the leading figures in the Republican Party condemned Trump's record statement as unacceptable and appalled. Trump said,
 staunch allies have gone live to be silent. House Speaker Paul Ryan publicly disinvited Trump from a Saturday afternoon event in Wisconsin. An increased number of golf officials are either withdrawing their endorsement or even calling for him to exit the race. Some have urged Indiana Governor Mike
 Trump's vice president pick to replace the real established mechanism at the top of the ticket. It's sad. It's a sad day that 70% of what Donald Trump talks about is lies, and there are a lot of people who believe his lies and not the truth. Why?
 Once again, this past weekend we have celebrated Columbus Day. Columbus never discovered North America. Why do we celebrate his day? Yet the stunning truth is if Christopher Columbus was alive today, he would be put on trial for crime against humanity.
 Columbus' reign of terror as a document by noted historians was so bloody, his legacy so unspeakable, cruel, that Columbus made a modern villain like Salim Hussein look like a pale coalfish. The real story of Columbus, when he made landfall in the Caribbean, he believed it to be Asia, had attended a destination. His navigators were Moroccans that lived in Spain but came from Morocco and off of Northern
 Why would other people tell their history they come off as being patriotic? When other people talk about where they came from or who they are and what their history is, they are called patriotism in America before the European explorer. When black people do it, they are labeled militant. They are called rebels.
 and they are called Afrocentric, that's been the big difference. Our history for some reason seems to have become offensive. I realized that they were going out of their way to omit certain facts pertaining to the African present. I knew right then and there that I had to do something instead of waiting for someone else to tell our story. So we have to stop being afraid to tell what our true history is.
 Our African American ethnic group is deeply divided. Until we start working together, we will never be able to achieve our goal for better education, jobs, safety, and living environment. You look at our neighborhood, every gas station, liquor store, and most of the other stores are owned and ran by foreigners from the Middle East
 and asia a lot of the talk to us and we are below them and yet we still go to the storage and that what we need we need to work together with dot open up our own visit case in court there's a few really times up there's a few people uh... i just want to mention the fact that we get uh... jeff brown come from boston illinois i mean boston and uh... he he's gonna be here at least the we go to uh... uh... i have a uh...
 Ooh, I forgot what you got. We're going to have a meeting. I forgot the word for it. But he's going to do a seminar. And on Thursday, we're going to walk the Ellis Heights area so the police and other audience and dignitaries are going to be out there with us. And on Friday, we're going to walk the Broadway and the Blackhawk area on Friday nights when he's here. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Janie Wilson-Cook.
 Mayor Morrissey, members of the City Council, city staff, the press, and members of law enforcement, my name is Janie Wilson-Cook. I'm representing the League of Women Voters of Greater Rockford. Most of you are familiar with the League because of our political and governance activities, mostly lobbying for causes and voter services, such as registration and election forums. Some of you have or were members.
 Other than the political aspects, there are other important issues that concern the League, such as justice, the environment, education, civics, and health care. The reason I am here today is to speak about an important League event concerning mental health. On Tuesday, October 25th, next Tuesday, the League will present a program called The Shameful Criminalization of Mental Illness.
 Tom Dart, the sheriff of Cook County, will speak at a dinner at the Radisson Hotel and Conference Center about people unable to receive mental health care that are trapped in the incarceration system. Tom Dart has used his influence as sheriff to advocate on behalf of the most vulnerable and neglected communities among us. He has enacted meaningful social justice reforms and rewritten the book on what a sheriff can accomplish.
 This is an important man coming to Rockford to speak on an important subject. I want you to learn what he knows. What Sheriff Dart is doing is working in Chicago. It can work here, too. I invite you to this League fundraiser. It is $75 per person and includes a delicious meal. You have three choices of entrees. I will be sitting here in the back observing the rest of the council meeting. I will be happy to accept your invitation forms
 With payment, cash, check, credit card, I brought my iPad. After the meeting, I and the League of Women Voters of Greater Rockford thank you. Thank you. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications.
 Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 3B, 1, 2, and 3, the first item is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda and the item number 2 is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on October 18, 2016 and the meetings from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee on October 24, 2016.
 The third item is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the Platte No. 7 of Stenstrom's Industrial Park Subdivision. I'm referring all three of those items to the Codes of Rights Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Madam Speaker. For further petitions and communications, I'll turn it back to you, Your Honor. Yes, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, Finance Director, regarding the 2017... Sorry about that. It should go faster.
 regarding the 2017 fee schedule and refer this to finance and personnel. Thank you. That will be referred for the petitions and communications. Proclamations. We have three proclamations this evening and then we have two other presentations that will be occurring. So I know we have some guests out in the hallway, if we wouldn't mind we'll do those in the
 Young people especially have been very patient. I don't know if you've heard them in the hallway, but we'll be inviting the folks up here from Gigi's Playhouse, Assistant Deputy Chief Mike Dahlke and Executive Director Paula Capone from Gigi's Playhouse. Could somebody, I think, Alderman Hervey, I think, may have gone out there to get them. But otherwise, Chief Pan, could you go grab them? Thank you.
 Thank you very much. We could tell you were excited. We heard you a little bit out in the hallway. It's all good stuff, all good. No, no, you're fine. It was a beautiful sound of children. So who would like to take this? And then guys, there's a camera right over there we'll kind of look into so everybody at home can watch us.
 Whereas approximately one in every 691 children are born with Down syndrome, representing an estimated 6,000 births per year in the United States. Whereas currently in this country, more than 400,000 individuals are living with Down syndrome. Whereas in Rockford, Gigi's Playhouse, a Down syndrome achievement center, has been the cornerstone of hope and success for individuals with Down syndrome and their families. Whereas Gigi's Playhouse is a one-of-a-kind achievement center for individuals with Down syndrome, their families, and the community.
 Gigi's Playhouse offers more than 25 therapeutic and educational programs.
 that advance literacy, math skills, motor skills, and more, all of which are free of charge. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 2016 to be Down Syndrome Achievement Month, and we encourage citizens to work together to promote respect and inclusion of individuals with Down Syndrome and to celebrate their accomplishments and contributions. Would you like to share a little bit more? I'm Paulie Martin.
 Thank you so much, Mayor Morrissey. And thank you, City Council. Gigi's Playhouse Rockford serves over 280 families in a five-county region.
 And our mission is to inspire and empower individuals with Down syndrome to succeed in life. So we thank you so much as we are celebrating October as Down Syndrome Awareness Month. So we thank you so much for this proclamation and helping us get the word out there to include all of our loved ones with Down syndrome. So thank you very much.
 All right. Our next proclamation is for the United Way of Rock River Valley Week. Accepting on behalf of the United Way is Matt Zaremski of the United Way. Matt. Thank you.
 Jim Ryan, our city administrator who couldn't be here tonight, is also on the United Way board. And certainly Matt sends his support along with all the work and reception of this proclamation. Thank you.
 Whereas the United Way of the Rock River Valley has been empowering neighborhoods, strengthening families, and improving quality of life for everyone in our community since 1919, whereas the United Way creates change, inspiring donors, mobilizing partners, helping people overcome challenges, leading to a better life. Together with partners across the area, the United Way invests in community programs and initiatives driving measurable, lasting impact that no single donor or organization can achieve alone.
 Whereas the United Way reduces childhood poverty and builds hope for families, helping children succeed in school, connecting adults with jobs and economic opportunity, and building safe and healthy neighborhoods. And whereas giving to the United Way of the Rock River Valley is the most effective way to collectively impact lives in the Rock River Valley. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 17, 2016, to be United Way.
 of the Rock River Valley Week, and we encourage citizens to join the Live United movement, supporting the work of United Way of Rock River Valley, providing invaluable services to our community. Matt?
 Thank you, Mayor Morrissey. I just want to thank everyone here at the council, and I want to thank all city employees for your past contributions to the United Way of Rock River Valley. Without your support, we couldn't do what we do in the community, and more importantly, our 40 agency partners couldn't do the great work they do every single day in the Rock River Valley. So I want to thank you for the proclamation, and thank you very much on behalf of the United Way. Thank you very much, Mike. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Again, our final proclamation will be now, and then we'll have two other presentations after. This proclamation is for American Pharmacists Month, and I invite members of the University of Illinois College of Pharmacy Academy student pharmacists to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Thank you.
 Whereas pharmacy is one of the oldest of healthcare providers dedicated to the health and well-being of all people, and whereas today there are over 254,000 pharmacists licensed in the United States, nearly 18,000 pharmacists in Illinois providing service and healthcare counseling to assure the national and safe use of medications with the help of 38,000 pharmacy technicians. Thank you.
 Whereas the use of medication as a cost-effective alternative to more expensive medical procedures is becoming a major force, moderating overall health care costs. And whereas today's powerful medications require greater attention and safety to the manner in which they are used by different patient population groups, both clinically and demographically. And whereas the American Pharmacists Association and Illinois Pharmacists Association have declared October as American Pharmacists Month,
 With the theme, know your medicines, know your pharmacist. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, are hereby proclaim October 2016 to be American Pharmacist Month. And we urge citizens to acknowledge the valuable services of pharmacy as health care providers. It provides safe, affordable, and beneficial pharmacy services delivered in a patient-centered care manner to all of our citizens. Thank you.
 Thank you so much for the proclamation and for the support. As pharmacists, we do much more than just dispense medications. We provide medication therapy management, medicine reconciliation. We provide smoking cessation, diabetic education, immunizations, and now with the heroin and epinephrine,
 opioid epidemic use, we provide naloxone and do a lot of training in regards to that. And the students at UIC's College of Pharmacy out here at the Rockford campus, we're very involved in the communities in putting forth blood glucose screenings, blood pressure screenings, medication take-back days. We're involved in the schools and educations and things like that in the community. So thank you so much for the proclamation, and we urge you guys all to know your medicines and to know your pharmacists. Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. A round of applause. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And you may see our pharmacy students from time to time in some of our local pharmacies. I know I am from time to time. Appreciate all their work. Next, we have a presentation this evening. I invite our friends from the IMRF that are here, executive director of the IMRF, and that's the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund is here this evening, Louis Kosiba and Nisa Kelly, and we invite them to come forward for a short presentation. Thank you.
 This is something we're going to have to take a picture of. Oh, excellent. Thanks again for joining us. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Morrissey. I'm pleased to be here. It's my honor to be with the city of Rockford and to thank you. We have a shadow box here with some mementos. And let me read the resolution of appreciation adopted by the IMREF Board of Trustees. Whereas the city of Rockford is one of IMREF's five founding employers,
 and boldly entered into a groundbreaking pension plan partnership for its employees in 1941, whereas the City of Rockford has been an active employer with IMRF since it began with a $5,000 investment in 1941, growing to $34.5 billion in assets in 2016.
 Whereas for 75 years the City of Rockford has provided financial security and dignity in retirement to its former employees, with the IMRF paying more than $135 million in pension benefits,
 to City of Rockford retirees, whereas the City of Rockford has had more than 1,274 recipients of retirement, disability and death benefits, whereas for 75 years the City of Rockford has worked to attract or retain quality employees through offering the IMRF benefit package.
 Whereas the City of Rockford has 750 employees currently participating in IMRF, whereas the City of Rockford's account with IMRF is financially sound, including a funded status of over 88 percent, therefore it be resolved the IMRF Board of Trustees recognizes and honors the City of Rockford for its 75-year commitment to supporting the retirement security of the city's
 public employees. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. How are we going to do this? One quick photo. Thank you. I'm going to hand you that microphone. So I just wanted to thank you for your outstanding stewardship of the Illinois Municipal IMRF Fund. Notice when you hear about pension challenges for local governments,
 One thing you don't hear about is IMRF. Typically the conversation is about public safety pensions, and I would say that's due to the discipline in fiscal management. The fact that the fund is one fund, it's a statewide fund with individual cities having accounts, as was explained, that's different than what happens, and that actually become a model that's starting to be looked at more by the public safety pension systems in Illinois. I want to thank you for your work and, again, the great stewardship of the board and your team. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 And last but not least, we have a delegation that's here, and I appreciate your patience. More friends that are here from our industrial partnership, City Lid Shipping, invite the construction students that are here tonight to please come forward, along with Linnea Bengston, international business developer, who's joining them. Again, Linnea is going to help share more about the international project working with these students.
 The students are in Rockford for three weeks. They're giving a helping hand to renovations at the Nordic Cultural Center operated by the Swedish Historical Society in Haight Village.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council members and employees and citizens of the City of Rockford for letting us be here with you tonight. The group are going to introduce themselves in a minute. And in addition to what the Mayor said, I just want to add that this year marks the 10-year anniversary of the Lead Ship in Rockford Partnership Agreement. We are so grateful for your support to let us do this. And the mission of the agreement is to grow locally by working globally.
 And we try to help companies find local companies globally so they can increase job growth. And the other leg of the partnership is to identify partnerships agreements.
 And today we have the construction team here. We have had construction students here in the past, but this is different because they are not working with Swedish American, they're working with Swedish Historical Society. And I know you know in Rockford there's a history of Swedes coming here 150 years ago, building this city here, if you will. So we're so honored that we get to continue building those ties in double meaning, giving a helping hand to the renovations of the Nordic Culture Center operated by Swedish Historical Society. So thank you for your support. And now I will have the students and faculty introduce themselves.
 I'm Hugo Nordström and I'm a machine operator student in Linköping. I'm Dennis Arefors and I'm a painter from Linköping. I'm Jakob Hassel, a carpenter student from Linköping. I'm Erika Molander and I'm a painter from Linköping. I'm Lina Marien and I'm a construction student from Linköping. And I'm Susan and I'm a painting teacher. My name is Bengt Launs and I'm a teacher.
 Again, just wanted to thank you on behalf of the City of Rockford and our Rockford City Council. This has been a great exchange that we've done with Lidschming now for 10 years. And Linnea, thank you for your leadership and all your work helping these exchanges move forward and helping our community to grow by working in a global setting. Thank you. Congratulations. I'm just going to do a real – actually, I'll hold off on that. All right. Committee reports. Alderman Shrella. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 5.
 B, one and two. I move to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Spend the motion, second to suspend the rules on committee reports, room 105B, items one and two. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those two items up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Irving. McConnell. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Eliany. Aye.
 11-9. That is passed. Thank you. Thank you. Further reports to the committee. Sullivan, Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Enrollment No. 5C, items 1 through 7. I ask for suspension of rules. Submit a motion and second to suspend the rules. Enrollment No. 5C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended. Oh, I place them up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Alderman Frost. I would request that the motion be made.
 It's been moved and seconded to lay over Roman numeral 5C6, pursuant to council rule, that will automatically lay over. The other items, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7, are still up for passage as they're discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Hervey. No, on 7. Aye. Connell. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Elligay. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 11 ayes. Item number 7, 8 ayes, 3 noes. Thank you, Madam. I'll pass. Your Honor, I am. Mr. Hayes. Sorry to interrupt. When we presented number 6 at committee, we had indicated that there was a desire by RHA to commence with the deployment of the sergeant for planning purposes as of November 1st.
 If the matter was laid over, I'm wondering if council would be offended if we set that for special consideration at the city council retreat on the 31st, or if we need to lay it over to November the 7th and simply inform RHA of that delay. Thank you.
 So is there any reason we couldn't set it next week, the 24th, Mr. Hayes? We could do a special city council matter on the 24th if that advances the matter and if the council... Thank you. We'll take that under consideration. Officers' reports on OTO. People had their hands up. They had questions. If you have a point of order, you can make one, but go ahead and ask the question. I didn't see any other questions. Who else had their hand up?
 I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand it over to you. I'll hand
 So next week should be fine. So thank you. That's, you know, the motion layover was in order. It was seconded, so it's an automatic layover. It's not a problem. We have two more meetings before the end of the month where we can address this if that's appropriate. Any other questions on it? Officers' reports? Just a couple. Tests. All right. Just a couple items I want to report on. One is that our...
 Information release has gone out regarding trick-or-treat hours for this Halloween.
 Halloween will be celebrated and trick-or-treat hours recognized Monday, October 31st, 2016 from 530 to 730 p.m. In the notification, there's some additional guidance for families and households to use caution and to give some precautions during trick-or-treat hours. Obviously we ask our drivers to take particular caution both during the specific hours but really throughout the evening when children might be out on our streets. Also wanted to
 Just take a moment and acknowledge the shootings that we've had over the weekend. I've gotten a number of inquiries, both in email and in media requests today and over the weekend. And I would just say a couple of points that I mentioned earlier today in discussions with the media. Number one, there's a common element having to be at a hotel when this shooting occurred at the clock tower.
 Just beyond our boundaries recently where there's been a couple of events out at Cherryville Mall, there was also events that occurred out at the Woodman's grocery store recently. And I would just say for a number of these events, the patterns that we see happening are familiar, unfortunately all too familiar, and that is that groups and gangs of individuals, gangs,
 who didn't necessarily plan on getting together on a given evening, they find themselves together. And these are folks who unfortunately respond to conflict utilizing guns. That's not the norm. Most people don't do that. And it's a relatively small percentage of folks, but it's an extremely damaging small number of folks who are involved in this. I want to thank the Rockford, all of our police department officials, our firefighters who are on scene in a very chaotic situation.
 out of the clock tower for all of their incredible work, trying to continue to make arrests and provide the services as first responders that they're trained to do. But I would also repeat something that I heard Mayor Emanuel say last week. I was in Chicago for a meeting of the Chicago Metropolitan Mayor's Caucus. Mayor Emanuel shared a situation
 that we're familiar with here in Rockford all too often as well. He spoke of a repeat gun offender in Chicago who had been arrested, I believe he said 15 different times for gun violations. He was not speaking to him, however, as a suspect. He was also someone who was a victim. He was a homicide victim in Chicago. And we're unfortunately dealing with groups of folks that some days they may be a suspect, some days they may be a victim. And certainly this isn't every case, but this is
 oftentimes the types of cases we see with groups and gangs that are involved with one another. Too many repeat offenders. And his plea and his push, and he's got Senator Kwame Raoul and many Democrats and Republicans that are joining him. He's got a specific piece of legislation. I've asked staff to get some more information on it so it can be shared at our council.
 but they specifically want to try to push for longer sentences for repeat gun offenders. Simultaneously, he's pushing, and I would join him in this, in seeking to give leniency to folks who are nonviolent offenders who may be convicted of a possession of drugs, may be addicted to an opiate, and they really need a, or they may have a mental health issue, like we heard the speaker that's coming in to talk about,
 But when we have socially active activities that are completely socially intolerable, when folks are using guns to resolve their disputes, we have to make sure that those individuals go away for as long as possible within the criminal justice system
 taking, of course, all the facts and circumstances into consideration. But we just see far too often folks that are repeat gun offenders, and they wind up on probation, not even going into the state DOC. They wind up on probation in our local community. So I look forward to continuing our work as a council to try to address the issue. As I said, we in the Rockford Police Department can't do it alone. We look to all of our partners in the criminal justice system to help us out. For the officers' reports.
 I'm sorry, we have an appointment that's laid over first. Alan Beck, do you want to take that? Thank you, Your Honor. We have an appointment of D. Valentino to the Community Action Advisory Board for a three-year term. I ask for suspension of Rule 18 on this. There's been a motion and a second to suspend Rule 18 with regard to that appointment. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. I place it up for passage. Thank you. The appointment of D. Valentino.
 Community Action Advisory Board for three-year term is up for passage as their discussion.
 Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to, in case folks don't know Dee, Dee is incredibly active in the Coronado Haskell neighborhood, has been a tremendous asset to that neighborhood in a whole host of ways, really being creative and getting more and more people into the neighborhood association and at the meetings and getting them involved in cleanups and cooking classes, you name it. I think she'd be a tremendous asset to the board.
 Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor of the appointment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, I have it. Thank you. Motions and resolutions. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item under Roman numeral 8A1. This is the termination resolution for the Eastside Tax Increment Financing District.
 the Westside Tax Increment Financing District, and 7th Street Tax Increment Financing District. I place these up for passage. Item 8A1 is up for passage. Is there a discussion? If there are none, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Alley. Alley. Okay. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Nine. Aye. Shredder. The matter passes. Thank you.
 All right, Mr. Raleigh. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item tonight. That item is the Mary and Bright Stroll on State, scheduled for Saturday, November 26th, from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m. The parade will step off at 5.45 p.m. Place that item up for passage. Thank you. Item's up for passage. Roman Oral 8B1 is a discussion. Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Thank you. All in back.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 8, item C, items 1 through 12, I place up for passage. Thank you. Under Roman numeral 8C, items 1 through 12, those matters are up for passage as they are in discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNair. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli.
 9 a.m. Madam, I'll pass. Thank you. New business, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Your new business, B1 and 2, I've moved to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules from Roman Rule 9b, Items 1 and 2. I apologize. Yeah, we can't call the vote. We need 10 to suspend the rules. So we will take a short pause. We'll try to get our 10th member of the council. Thank you, Your Honor. See if we can get our 10th member of the council.
 I remember back here. Thank you. So there was a motion and a second to suspend the rules in Roman numeral 9B, items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those two items up for passage. Matters are up for passage as their discussion. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I just want to point out that on the B1, this is not a new car license.
 auto repair, rebuild and use car sales. This is the sale of a unit that was there for a very long time and had no problems. So I know there were questions brought up at our committee meeting and those have been answered too satisfactory for the there in Ann Thompson Kelly's ward and she's
 She and I both support this, so I just wanted the other aldermen to know that. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Turkey. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes. Matters passed. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral IX, C, items 1 through 4, ask for suspension of rules. Thank you. Motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral IX, C, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. Actually, 3 was... You're right. That item was laid over, so items 1, 2, and 4. Items 1, 2, and 4, there's been a motion to suspend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. So we needed 10 votes, right?
 We have to spend the rolls. That was only nine. We have 11 in the room. No, 12 in the room. All right. We're good then. Roles will be suspended. Thank you. I place them up for passage. Passage is there. Discussion. Please, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Mack, Nomura. Frost. Herbie. Connell. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 And items 1, 2, 11, ayes. And item number 4, 8 ayes, 3 noes. That is all passed. Thank you. Is there any further business before the council? Second. Motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.