Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Meeks, Bonney. 11 present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on July 18th, 2022? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Aye. Okay, next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Strategic Planning Session held on August 29th, 2022? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council Meeting held on October 3rd, 2022? We have a motion, a quiet second. Is there any further discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, we have two proclamations this evening. Our first proclamation this evening is Head Start Awareness Month, and I believe we have Lisa Warren, our Head Start Director, as well as Kaylee Walton, the Head Start Family Services Team Leader, potentially a Head Start family. Oh, that's unfortunate. Oh, she just went the other way. Whereas the National Head Start, since its establishment, has helped millions of low-income children and their families and has earned recognition and support for its success in early childhood education and development. And whereas the City of Rockford Health and Human Services Head Start serves 714 children and their families in our community to provide a head start around education and transition services. Thank you. And whereas, the health and nutrition aspects of the program have improved the prevention, detection, and treatment of children's medical, mental health, dental, and nutritional needs, thereby addressing barriers to growth and learning. And whereas, Head Start provides comprehensive health, nutritional, educational, social services, family and community development, and meaningful parent involvement. Family engagement is a collaborative and strength-based process. through which early childhood professionals, families, and children build positive and goal-oriented relationships. The Head Start parent, family, and community engagement framework is a roadmap for progress. And whereas all of Rockford is committed to the welfare of all of our children and families. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2022 to be Head Start Awareness Month. Thank you on behalf of all the children that we're currently serving and the ones we've served in the past. And here comes Markayla. Hi Markayla. This is Markayla Herbert, currently on our policy council and also parent of two, one former Head Start and one Head Start currently. WANT TO SAY? I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THANK YOU ALL FOR HAVING ME. MY NAME IS MARKAILA HERBERT. I APPRECIATE THAT. I'VE BEEN INVOLVED WITH HEADSTARTS SINCE MY SON WAS TWO YEARS OLD. At first I thought he had a speech impediment, so I wanted to get him evaluated. But come to find out, it was just he was taking his time to get where he needed to get with his speech and talking. So when we got introduced to Early Head Start, I got a home-based teacher. She was very good, and I appreciate her. She was patient with me and my son, and also with my daughter too. And she got me introduced to be on policy council here at City Hall. I was a first-time parent, so I didn't know anything about it. And I remember my grandmother, my little cousin here, she was in Head Start, but I was a teenager, still in high school, just got out of high school. So I didn't really pay attention to all the stuff that my grandma did at that time. And when I got involved in Head Start with the home base and my son transitioned to college, elementary and I got nominated for a distinction because I just was very involved in my education I wanted to see my son succeed and get where he is now he's talking he knows I don't know how many words a lot of words He breathes really well, and now since he's in kindergarten, he can write and spell his name, and he can recognize his name. And I'm teaching my daughter the same thing as well. And I want to advocate for other low-income minority parents, moms and dads, to just be a – advocate for your child and step up and just get get involved in their education because their education is important and it starts at home and it starts when they're young and when they get older they can transition and inspire others and for them to keep going and being with roffer has started also introduced me to go back to school as well i changed my major from nursing i just got my cna certificate but i changed my major from nursing to early childhood education because I want to advocate and be a teacher and help. I'm getting nervous now. I want to advocate and help other parents that was in my situation, single parent, mom and dads, and anyone else that wants to further their education and also be advocate for their kids and for the kids in the future. So that's why I'm here and I want to keep going and be the teacher here in Rockford or anywhere in the world so I can teach others and just give them that motivation and encouragement to do what I did and do better and keep going. So you can easily see why you've won that Family of Distinction Award. Thank you for the work that you do in making our community a better place. Really appreciate it. Congratulations. Thank you. Well, I will just say good luck to the Rockford Public Library for topping that. Thank you. We do have another proclamation this evening that we're excited to provide to the Rockford Public Library. And so I know we have a number of members. We have the Executive Director, Lynn Stainbrook. We have the Board of Trustees President, Paul Loglie. And we have the Foundation Board President, Tony Gasparini. I'm fine, thank you. Whereas Rockford Public Library was founded in 1872 as only the second library in Illinois. And whereas Rockford Public Library currently has four facilities including the Rockford Public Library's Nordloff Center, a performing arts and training facility, the Hart Interim Library, two branch libraries, and a mobile library. And whereas Rockford Public Library informs, educates, entertains, and provides cultural enrichment to the people of our community. And whereas in 1901, the Rockford Public Library was awarded $70,000 Andrew Carnegie grant, with which it built the main library in downtown Rockford. And whereas, the Rockford Public Library main building at 215 North Wyman Street opened to the public in 1902. And whereas, the Rockford Public Library has served in multiple capacities to help Rockford residents access lifelong education, increase employment ability and business ownership, civic engagement, cultural experiences, and a better way of life. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of October 16th through October 22nd of 2022 to be Rockford Public Library Week. I will say costs have risen since that $70,000 grant. But would you like to share a few words with just a few? I have a 45-minute history of the Rockford Public Library, but I'll defer that to another evening. I do want to thank the mayor and the city council for this proclamation. It occurs to me that the history of the Rockford Public Library and the history of the city of Rockford have been intertwined for the last 150 years. I would like to think that we both have grown. We have both turned out pretty well. I'm proud of our library. I'm proud of our city. And I'm very thankful for the support that we've been given over the years by the city of Rockford. We've got a fine group of trustees, and we have a wonderful staff that serves the people of this community. Our foundation is helping us celebrate the 150th anniversary, but we know that we've grown together, that we have been the repository of knowledge in this community. It's not just about books anymore. It's about knowledge in all its forms. And the way knowledge was presented 150 years ago is different than how it was presented 50 years ago and even five years ago. And it's incumbent on the library to grow and change as the ways that the information is transmitted has grown and changed. So thank you for this proclamation. By the way, we're celebrating our 150th anniversary Thursday night at the city building on that. North 3rd Street. You can still buy tickets. Alderman Tunberg told me he just bought his today. So we're looking forward to seeing him there. We encourage all of you to be there and help us celebrate the 150th anniversary of the library. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to petitions and communications and we'll go to planning and development committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. UNDER PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE, WE HAVE ITEM NUMBER ONE, WHICH IS A MEMORANDUM FROM ANNA GARRISON, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT MANAGER REGARDING THE PROPOSED RIVER EDGE REDEVELOPMENT ZONE, RERZ, NUMBER ONE BOUNDARY AMENDMENT. AND THIS HAS BEEN REFERRED TO THE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU, ALDERWOMAN MEKS. NEXT WE'LL GO TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE AND ALDERWOMAN TERENA. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, we have four items. Item number one, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for meeting to be held on October 18, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 24, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on October 18th, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 24th, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item three, a memorandum from Martin Bloom. project manager permits and special events regarding an upcoming special event for snow market referred to code and regulation committee and Finally number four a memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding a pre annexation agreement for 16 xx Memorial Boulevard Referred to code and regulation committee. Thank you. Thank you all the women Trina next we'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost I Thank you, Your Honor. All four of these measures will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding an agreement with Elite Lifeline for Ambulance Services. Number two is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding a tax exempt lease for two fire engines and outfitting. Number three is a memorandum from Fire Chief Michelle Pankow regarding the UW Health Swedish American Hospital Grant Award. And finally, number four is a memorandum from Owen Carter, Human Services Deputy Director of Program Operations, regarding the acceptance of the Illinois Department of Commerce an economic opportunity to receive a Community Services Block Grant Award. Thank you, Alan. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we will move to our scheduled public hearing, and Alderwoman Trena will provide the public hearing for the pre-annexation agreement for 2690 Cunningham Road. Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5-11-15-1-3 for the pre-annexation agreement for the following property, 2690 Cunningham Road. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on September 27, 2022. That notice informed citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, October 17, 2022, at 530 in Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall, located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed pre-annexation agreement for 2690 Cunningham Road. Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the pre-annexation agreement? Seeing that there's no questions from council, are there any questions or comments from the public? No questions or comments from the public. So now we will close the hearing. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Trina. Next, we'll move to public speakers. I want to remind all of our public speakers, there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of City Council chambers. You have three minutes to address the City Council. You will then hear an obnoxious cell phone alarm ring, and I'd ask that you close your comments. I'd also ask... That there's there's no applause at city council meetings or booing whatever you choose to feel. You can't do it inside this chamber. You can give high fives to people when you leave. So I will move to public speakers. Our first public speaker this evening is Christina Rose. Thank you, Your Honor and city council for allowing me to speak. As a business owner whose business has been in our family since 1984 on the corner of Moray and Alpine, I represent over a dozen area businesses that strongly oppose the proposed abortion business from going up in our neighborhood. I'm not here to debate the political nature of abortion or infringe on the protesters, but rather just to discuss the negative impact it's going to have on our local businesses in our neighborhood. We are strongly concerned about the influx of activists both for and against abortion, about the increase of the graphic signs, the increase of traffic, which by the way it is zoned C2, which prohibits increased traffic congestion and any business that will be detrimental to existing local businesses, as well as increased police presence. We're all very concerned about the negative impact that these factors will have on our neighboring businesses. As many of you have already known, the Broadway florist, which has been a staple in our community for over 100 years, has closed its doors. Michelle, the owner, was planning on speaking this evening, but she had a conflict arise. At the time of the last protest, which had voices for and against abortion, They were lining the streets of Moray, and the children across the street in the daycare as they were exiting and entering the building had vision, were able to see these graphic signage. Michelle had mentioned that she had zero foot traffic that day, which was very uncommon for a Friday. She had potential customers calling her business, informing her they didn't feel comfortable driving into her parking lot. She had employees that left early that day because they weren't comfortable with what was going on outside. How many other local businesses in that neighborhood need to close due to this abortion business, which is... purchased financially backed by an out-of-state businessman to financially gain at our expense. So I guess the bottom line is, we don't need to wait and see if there's gonna be a negative impact. We've already seen it in July during the large protest that was going on. So we are asking us local businesses are asking for the support of you city council to support us versus an out of state businessman who will financially gain at our expense. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Kevin Rose. As July 8th, 2022, I came around into the carpet land, trying to get into the carpet land parking lot, which I've done for 33 years. Five squad cars, activists, I say activists because there were protesters and supporters, both sides of the group in political views, lining the streets, causing congestion. I thought, my first thought was somebody has been shot. Somebody got into a fatal accident. How horrible this is. I turned around, went out onto Alpine, came back into the parking lot the only way I knew I could was I've worked there for 33 years. I knew there was another option. Afterwards, I walked over. Mary Kong said she had folks parking in her parking lot. We only have a few parking spaces for clients. Her parking spaces were taken. She asked them to move. They moved. I don't think there were any issues as far as violence, but they moved. She went back into her place of business. A few minutes later, new folks had come who were not clients and taken those same parking spaces. We can't monitor our parking spaces. I'm asking the city council, the mayor, to do something about this. We are zone C2, so traffic congestion is part of C2, undue congestion. And I was just shot a text before the meeting by a local developer who's a commercial developer in town saying that any medical clinic has to have 6.6 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet, They have 21 and should have 28. And I can tell you we're all landlocked over there. So I'm asking for you to not give them exceptions, but to hold them to the same rules and zoning that the rest of us have abided by and had to stay with and regulate. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Larry Washington. Okay. I consider the Police Department of Rockford as corrupt. If you read what is written on the sidewalk and chalk in front of the building, you will see I am not alone on this. So concerning my issues with the two remaining strip clubs, the dancers at both clubs have told me that when the police do their undercover investigations, they first call Tiger Tail and the Bigfoot ahead of time so they don't get caught in any illegal stuff. the owner of the hideaway got no warning and he got in trouble and he's no longer in business again the owner of the tiger tail is a ex fireman the police's best friends and police are getting lap dances at both clubs according to the dancers what a sham I am again going to tell you what Carla Redd, the police chief, once told me when I complained about this. She told me, if you don't like what you're seeing in these strip clubs, just don't go in there. This is coming from our police chief. She don't say, we will look into it. She says, just don't go in there anymore. I thought citizens are supposed to report illegal activities. She should resign or be fired as far as I'm concerned. What a ridiculous thing to say. Rockford is listed as the number one most violent city in Illinois now. Recently, there were seven shootings in four days. Maybe they should concentrate more on that instead of pulling people over for silly things such as a license plate light out or air refreshener hanging from the mirror, which I have been pulled over for. Twice, I was followed home by police officers for three to four miles. I made turns I wouldn't normally make when I go home on purpose, so I know they were doing this on purpose, that they were following me on purpose. Meanwhile, all this other stuff is going on. Back to my first thing. about this prostitution that's going on in the strip clubs. Prostitution is listed as a top way of bribing police. In fact, DEA agents were caught having sex parties in Central America with prostitutes provided by drug lords. So I can just imagine what's going on in the lap dances at the Tiger Tail and the other strip club when the cops are back there getting lap dances. Do us a favor and resign, Carla. Rockford deserves better than you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson. The Bible. Drink waters out of thine own cistern and running waters out of thine own well. This passage of scripture is really an allegory. And it refers to fidelity in marriage. Don't covet another spouse. Despite this marital application, there are other practical applications to this. It comes to my mind about the African in America, where he has been, where he is now, and where he needs to go, especially abandoning their institutions and development of their own areas. This rush to, quote, integrate, unquote, is not realizing that they are being exploited, drinking from another's cistern and from another's watering waters, from their wells. These wells let us know about the wealth gap that has been going on and persists, not ignoring slavery's impact. Psychologically, too many Africans in America are captives, viewed as intruders, beggars. And who respects beggars? That is why I stand here before you and proudly proclaim that I am a co-chairman of Ministers for Manufacturing out of Chicago. We'll be headed to Springfield next month to press for some legislation to close the wealth gap. Africans in America are at the bottom. Emphasizing manufacturing, that the President of the United States on October the 6th did the same thing. We must prioritize manufacturing. for no other reason than the national security of the United States is at stake. It will help close the wealth gap. I was glad to hear the President say what I've been saying from this place and other places for the last two plus years, that those advanced manufacturing jobs can create jobs that will pay $170,000 to $120,000 a year without a college degree, and it thrills me that, We will be headed to Springfield to express our concerns about having this advanced manufacturing in Rockford with an adjacent research and development facility that will bring into Rockford some people who are with the HBCUs, Historically Black Colleges and Universities. I don't want to call off all ten of them, but Alabama State, Jackson State, Howard and Hampton are two of them. I just think of what an impact that will have on Rockford to have a research and development area here in Rockford where these people will be doing things that will impact the national security of the United States. Thank you, Mr. Dotson. Thank you, sir. Our next speaker this evening is Mr. Andrew Stain. Can you hear me with the mask okay? Yes, sir. Great. And just so you know, I respect beggars. I mean, we say it's a little bit more entertainment, but I respect beggars because they have a tough life. They really do. Thank you, honorable counsel and everybody who's going to hate me by the end of this. I am affiliated with no one. I align as pro-choice. I am a Democrat, liberal, progressive, and vehemently anti-fascist agnostic. I neither confirm nor I deny. I refuse to say that the foundation of your faith is a lie, but I do consider the individual human impact in that, and that is where the problem lies, because humans, what we're best at is making mistakes. And what do we do then? We try to fix them as best we can. I was present at the October 8th and the 10th rallies. I wasn't at the July one. But the October 8th rally was for women's rights, and that's where this comes in. I was on the news about 20 times. It says stare decisis, which is, of course, referring to the Supreme Court, 50 years of settled law. And then it's precooked bacon, which makes this non-chauvinist pig. My little joke. Anyway, and sorry, I had to bump somebody, so I got in kind of late, and I cobbled this together. I was at President's October 8th rally and on the 10th anti-abortion rally. I believe I was the only pro-choice protester at both, so I have a somewhat unique testimony. As far as Moray Drive, I walked out there once and saw it and looked around, but I didn't really view it much. I looked at a couple of the adjacent businesses, but that's as far as it went so far. Now, free enterprise. Dr. Christensen bought this building. Now, I have the complaint here listed from October. It's an open letter to the city of Rockford. I'm going off of that and, of course, what both the Roses said, and that's what my arguments will be directed at. Dr. Christensen bought it. He legally, and he adheres to all zoning, except for maybe that parking one. I don't know what to do about that. But he bought it for like $250,000. So it's his loss. It's nobody's business. If you think about it, there are other health care providers in the area as well as a Planned Parenthood location. And as far as undue traffic congestion, the problem is really not with the abortion clinic. You know it's not, and it's women's health care more than abortion clinic. But the problem is with the protesters. You do not penalize a legal business for the protesters. We do not bow down to something like that. As far as detrimental impact on labor. Thank you, sir. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we will go to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, the committee recommends approval of the request for a pre-annexation agreement. I'm going to wait until it quiets down. There it is. I'm going to start from the top again. So for the Code and Regulation Committee, we recommend approval for the request for a pre-annexation agreement for 2690 Cunningham Road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The owner of the subject property has requested connection to City Water for development of an industrial building in the county. I place this item before you. Thank you. There is one item before us. Is there any discussion, counsel, on the one item before us? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Okay. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $9,555,095.66 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on October 11, 2022. Number two, Your Honor, is the committee recommending approval of the proposed sale of the following city-owned properties Tante Enterprises LLC for a total of $5,000 1524 18th Avenue 1044 school Street 1502 school street 416 Underwood Street and 436 Underwood Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval the release of liens to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County trustee properties various properties as listed in Here and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends approval of the eternal controls cash handling and fraud policy the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number five the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the Illinois Department of Health Care and Family Services and the city of Rockford for ground emergency medical transportation known as GMT program in connection with the supplemental payments of For ambulance transports, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these five matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Counsel, there's five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. Number four, I know that our auditors have blessed our control system in Rockford, and I chatted with our... Finance Director today and I would appreciate it if it's possible to just ever give a brief overview of this committee report Absolutely, director Haggard. Yes, sir. I As we continually review our council-approved policies, you know, we look at those on an annual basis. We also look at places where we have gaps in those policies. We're working on a couple different ones for council's consideration. But this policy is really just a formalization of practices that we have in place, right? This is not a significant change from our current operations We wanted to make sure that council had a chance to look at what the city is doing in terms of controls and cash handling so that you all are Comfortable that we have sufficient protections in place for the resources that you trust the finance department staff with I Thank you, Your Honor. If they have outlined quite specifically in our packet who answers to what, I think it's good reading for those to be interested, and thank you for allowing me to speak, sir. Absolutely. Thank you. Any other discussion on those five items before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach.
 Aye.
 Meeks. Aye. I'm sorry, Alderman Quinones. 13 ayes. Excellent. Okay, next up we have officers' reports. Is there any council member who would like to provide a report? Alderman Quinones. Yes, Your Honor. I'd like to, the business people in the Broadway Street area would like to thank Carl Francine for attending their meeting and answering their questions. And what they could do to better the business area. It was very helpful and they wanted to make sure I thanked them for showing up. Thank you. Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. So last night I had the privilege of attending the 21-year anniversary of, it was a pastoral anniversary of Dr. Edward Copeland. His church did once preside in my ward, and he still just, consistently contacts me to listen. I know I'm not in the ward anymore, but I still want to stay abreast of what's happening because I still feel like the South side is, it's home to me. Um, but it was just to be in the presence of, um, honestly to be in the president greatness like i i knew that dr copeland was a great figure in this community but to hear so many people talk about his contributions like it just made me sit there like okay i'm not doing enough of my life like i just i was so inspired to just continue to be better and do better for the community so i just i want to just say congratulations to Just Pastor Copeland and thank him for just serving our community so well. Just a renaissance man. He's so talented. He just offers us so many gifts. So I just want to say thank you for again for his continued contributions to Rockford. Thanks. I think you said that perfect. It was one of those events that you're in awe of him, but you totally feel inadequate once you saw all that he has done. Pretty remarkable person and amazing wife in Starla. Alderman Rose, did you have your hand up? Yep. Thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak. Two items I just wanted to address. The first one is the Save Belleville Prairie group had the opportunity to attend an informational meeting last week. that highlighted a lot of the art that has been generated by those who are in favor of saving the prairie and it was if you get a chance to check it out I know a lot of that art was displayed downtown this week, but one of them was a video of a performance in Chicago where A YOUNG PERSON HAD WRITTEN A CHOIR PIECE FOR THE ACTUAL SAVING OF BELBOL PRARIE AND IT WAS JUST MAGNIFICENT. BUT IF YOU GET A CHANCE TO FOLLOW THE GROUP ON FACEBOOK OR ANY OF THE SOCIAL MEDIA, THE CONVERSATIONS THAT ARE BEING HAD IN THAT GROUP, I JUST REALLY WANT TO REINTERRATE THAT THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WHEN IT'S GONE, IT'S GONE FOREVER. Knowing the, having had the ability to go visit some of our national forests and national parks and state parks, this is one of those opportunities to really save something that we'll be here for forever. hopefully the end of time and hopefully show our youth that Saving the environment is important I'll kind of reiterate one of the things that I said at the meeting was when I was growing up that the discussion was You know, we need to save the rainforest, right? That was the I think a lot of people in this room were a part of that kind of discussion or or idea back in the day when we were growing up and the importance of the rainforest. And just like that, we have our rainforest here in Rockford, and that's Belleville Prairie. And the 120 species of plants, the numerous fauna and animals that reside there, and And, I mean, who knew that, like, cactus grew in Illinois? That's at Belverville Prairie. So I just kind of think it's an amazing thing, and if you get a chance to check it out, please do. The second thing is, I'll be real quick on this one. This weekend, October 22nd, Northwest Fest is occurring in collaboration with the Forward for Fun Initiative. It's happening at 3150 North Rockton Avenue in Rockford. We have a professional pumpkin carving artist, Lincoln Bias is going to be there, which you might have seen that he was highlighted on the Food Network. So if you want to get a chance to see him carving pumpkins. We have trick-or-treating. We have bag decorating. We have an inflatable police canine demonstration, local fire, police and sheriff. For the grown-ups, there's employment services, GED and military resources, the RVC tech bus, education, ESL and social services. so there's also going to be some free food for those who show up in a timely basis. We can't guarantee food for everyone, but Waypa Food Truck is going to be there, so come on out and check it out. It's going to be from 1 to 4 p.m. on October 22nd. Again, that's at Rockton Avenue, 3150 North Rockton Avenue. Thank you. alderman thunberg thanks mayor i'd like to congratulate the ymca for another successful regatta on the river it was great that i had a couple friends in from chicago who had now daughters which i remember as being extremely little at the time but now are rowing in it And neither of them had really been to Rockford. Neither of the parents had really been to Rockford And so I was able to show them around They really enjoyed Things and sites and then actually on a side note also met a couple from Winnipeg down seeing Anderson Gardens and Was able to show them around a little bit too. And so that was that was neat and they really really thought highly of our city and So with that being said, I just, on another note, completely different, you know, we passed something tonight on the Finance Personnel Committee. And, you know, it is a grant coming from the feds. But, again, I would emphasize that everyone try to read through these things because, you know, even though it is coming from the, the federal level as a grant we all pay most of us here federal taxes so it's not free money coming to our community it's money that is just coming back to our community from what many of us paid but um part of that is now we're going to be funding now granted it's a small amount in the overall grant but now we're going to be looking to include funding license plate fees impound fees Towing fees and it's just where does it end? You know, it's just I just want to let you know for if nobody noticed that but yeah just I wanted to mention that, government to the rescue yet again, thanks. Thanks, Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I was remiss two weeks ago, I believe, in not mentioning or congratulating a business called Star Buds that opened in the 14th Ward as the first craft grow cannabis operation in the entire state of Illinois. and it is, I believe, first phase, projected to employ 50 people, but with plenty of room to grow operations and grow the business. Similarly, I had the opportunity to attend a ribbon-cutting last week for the Golden Apple Foundation, which is now in a storefront office in Newtown Plaza. And that is, of course, I'm sure everyone here is familiar with it, but as the son of a 33 year Rockford public school teacher it's and as somebody who used to be able to had the privilege of a going to the teacher classrooms for the presentation when I was employed as a journalist and reporting on that for the public. It's a great organization and I firmly believe great teachers deserve all the applause they can get and of course we have three on the council floor with us right now, so I would welcome everybody to stop by it's um it is on the It is the storefront, but not facing state. It's on the side of the building Facing West. Thank you. Thank you any other reports seeing done. We'll move on to motions and resolutions We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll move to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina I Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the 2023 City Council and Committee Calendar Schedule. Thank you. So, Council, we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Item passes. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the award of bid for Group 23 demolitions to end track in the amount of $77,089. The contract creation is upon completion of the demolition group. The funding sources, the construction services, operating budget, and the community development block grant. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the change order citywide sidewalk repair 2022 package number two to Norwest Construction. The original amount was $315,414.10. There is a change order of $50,000.00. Additional work was requested at locations listed below. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax, and there are approximately one, two, three, four, five, six, seven different intersections where work was done with the change order amount. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the American Rescue Plan implementation proposal. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the United States. EPA brownfields community-wide assessment grant in the amount of five hundred thousand dollars The grant does not require a cost match the grant terms from October 1 2023 through September 30 2027 the grant will be used for phase 1 and phase 2 environmental site assessments and environmental cleanup planning on eligible brownfield sites in the city of Rockford a number five the committee recommends approval acceptance of the fiscal year 2022 grants to engage men and boys as allies in the prevention of violence against women and girls program the grant award in the amount of 349 990 dollars will provide funds to support a project aimed at creating educational programming community organ organizing to encourage men and boys to work as allies with women girls in marginalized communities to prevent domestic violence dating violence sexual assault stalking and sex trafficking number six the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the fiscal year 2022 strategies To support Children Exposed to Violence grant award, the grant award in the amount of $843,521 will provide funds to support a project to develop and establish a community healing center, a multi-agency, multi-disciplinary facility where children exposed to violence and their families can come to receive healing and supportive services that promote trauma recovery, youth development, and violence prevention interventions. Number seven is acceptance of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity To receive a community services block grant for an additional grant awarded the amount of $115,787. The grant does not require cost match and the grant term is effective from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022. The grant award will provide funds for developing implementing programs to assist low-income Illinois residents in working towards family stabilization and self-sufficiency and furtherance of this purpose. I place these seven items before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, counsel, we have seven items before us. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Alderman Durkee? Thank you, Your Honor. Just a clarification on the two questions. The American Rescue Plan, that's proposed. As these come forward for payment, they come through. Yes, sir. Then the second question I had, which I forgot to ask last week, so I apologize for not asking it last week, Was the Habitat for Humanity grant? I'm confused. My understanding of Habitat is that these projects become self-sufficient by the homeowner after training and all that, and these houses are now in disrepair. So if that's the model, what failed? And we're bailing them out. So I just want to understand what happened. Mr. Kagnoni? Thank you, Your Honor. So the program that we did this year with Habitat for Humanity, the critical repair program, was not for previous clients of Habitat for Humanity. They were for low to moderate incomes, a number of these being seniors that needed and had critical home repair. So it was an effort to improve the housing stock throughout the community. Thanks, yeah, I remember thank you very much. I appreciate that. Thank you. Is there any other discussion on those seven items clerk? Will you please call the roll jerky? Logamon, hi, Timber Frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Pinones Meeks Bonnie and it's one through six thirteen eyes and number seven eleven eyes two nose. I Excellent we'll move to new business. We have nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee and all their woman Trina. Thank you your honor for codes and regulations We have an ordinance approving the pre annexation agreement for 2690 Cunningham Road. Thank you We have one item before us any discussion on that item seeing none all those in favor say aye Those opposed okay next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you. I number one is ordinance approving the sale of the following city-owned properties to tante enterprises for a total amount of five thousand dollars fifteen twenty four eighteenth avenue ten forty four school street 1502 school street 416 and 436 underwood street Number two is an ordinance approving the release of liens to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County Trustee properties located at 2609 Elm, 1708 Clifton, 403 Lincoln. An address on Preston, 331 Forest Avenue, 1224 Andrews, Mulberry Street, 425 Oakley, 531 North Winnebago, 1024 Oakley, 3833 Preston, 1221 Crosby, Island Avenue, 620 Trenton Avenue, 1403 Andrews Street, 700 Willard Avenue, 3018 10th Street, 505 South Johnston, 311 North Horace, 304 North Horace, an address on North Avon Street, and 619 North Avon Street. Number three is an ordinance approving the Internal Controls, Cash Handling, and Fraud Policy Act, And item number four is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the Illinois Department of Health Care and Family Services and the City of Rockford for a ground emergency medical transportation program in connection with the supplemental payments for ambulance transports. I place these four matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Council, we have four items before us. Any discussion on those four items? Alderman Quinonez? We've got an address on Highland Avenue, but I didn't... What's that is there an address on Island Avenue? Are we selling the whole street? Oh that particular Property doesn't have a number address like it is a specific parcel. It is parcel pin 11 dash 27 dash 4 5 1 dash 0 2 5 got that committed to memory Okay Excellent any other further questions on the items before us none clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? logan timber frost Serena printing Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones me fun 13 eyes does anyone want to speak besides alderman frost no okay alderman frost I I'm sorry, Your Honor. At this time, I would move to convene into closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters. We have a motion. We don't yet. Oh, we do now have a second. Okay. We now have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? All right. We'll break for closed session and be right back. Okay. We are now back into open session. We're going to need our clerk to call a roll. Roll. And we still have a couple of aldermen walking in, but clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Logeman? Here. Thunberg? Frost? Here. Tarina? Here. Prenti? Wilkins? Here. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Quinones? Meeks? Bonney? Thunberg? Here. 13 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to adjourn? We got a second. All those in favor say aye. Those who oppose, have a good night. Oh, just want to say, someone left their cell phone up here. Has a really adorable dog. Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our website at www.webs.com.