Let's do prayer in front of God before starting our business. God, you are the supreme power in the world. God, you are the protector. We pray in front of you. Protect, bless the people of the United States.
 Bless the people of the city of Rockford and bless our city mayor, councilor, department of fire and the police. They are protecting the people. Please bless us all. God bless you. This is the flag of the United States of America. And to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, please call the roll. Turkey. Here. Turkey.
 Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
 guests that are in the council chamber tonight, our friends from Lidshipping that I'll be introducing in just a moment. And then we have just one order of business and a closed session for our council. Then we'll turn it over to our regular committee schedule. Good evening again. First this evening we have a proclamation for Fire Prevention Week and I would invite our representatives from the City of Rockford Fire Department to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Thank you.
 Whereas the City of Rockford is committed to ensuring the safety and security of all living in and visiting Rockford, and whereas fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally, and homes are where people are at greatest risk from fire, whereas U.S. fire departments responded to 369,500 home fires in 2014, according to the National Fire Protection Association.
 Whereas three out of five home fire deaths result from fires in properties without smoke alarms or with no working smoke alarms. Whereas working smoke alarms cut the risk of dying in reported home fires in half. Whereas Rockford's first responders are dedicated to reducing the occurrence of home fires and home fire injuries through prevention and protection education.
 Whereas the 2016 Fire Prevention Week theme, Don't Wait, Check the Date, Replace Smoke Alarms Every 10 Years, effectively serves to educate the public about the vital importance of replacing smoke alarms every 10 years. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence June Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford,
 do hereby proclaim the week of October 9th through the 15th, 2016 to be Fire Prevention Week. And we urge citizens to replace smoke alarms if they're more than 10 years old and to participate in many of the public safety activities and efforts that will be happening this week during Fire Prevention Week. I'd like to share a little bit more. Good evening. My name is Tim Morrison. I'm the City of Rockford Fire Department's Fire Prevention Coordinator. And I come to you again to talk about fire safety just very briefly. Thank you.
 Annually there are about 1.2 million fires in the United States, structure fires. Of that, there are about 16,000 injuries and over 3,200 deaths, resulting in about $11.1 billion in damage. Most people don't know, but if a business has a fire, they are 85% likely to not reopen.
 It has a huge impact upon our city, our citizens, and the way we live our lives. Simple actions you can take at home today can greatly reduce your risk. Go home today and check your smoke detectors, check your carbon monoxide detectors, make sure the batteries work, make sure it activates like it should, like the mayor just stated. If it's more than 10 years old, recycle it, get rid of it, and buy a new one.
 Think of what you could buy with $6. Would you spend $6 on your loved ones? Would you spend $6 knowing that it has a huge impact on your life? Well, that's exactly what you can go into almost any store that we have here in the city and purchase a smoke detector for. We see firsthand on a daily basis the impact of having a working carbon monoxide smoke detector.
 But we can't do this on our own. We go out and educate the public almost every single day, as well as our men and women that are on the fire trucks and fire apparatus. So today I'd like to ask you to go home, check your smoke detectors, check your carbon dioxide detectors, make a plan with your family and children on how to get out, and when you're done with that, go next door to your neighbors and make sure they have the same thing. Go to your family that maybe are not able to do it themselves or maybe a neighbor down the street. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 There's a number of events that will be happening around the community to support Fire Prevention Week. I just want to thank our entire command staff and all of the firefighters working for the Rockford Fire Department. We truly have done a remarkable job, not just here but across the country, reducing the incidence of fires. And it's a credit to all of the folks in the fire department here and throughout the nation. Next, we have the honor of introducing our guests from RID Shipping. As I think many of us know...
 We're celebrating 10 years of our industrial partnership agreement with our friends from Richmond. Please come forward. Joining us tonight is Mayor Shell Peddvall. He and I have been mayors my entire time in office, and it's been a great honor to be able to work with Shell, as well as Batil Janssen, deputy mayor, and Renéa Bengtsson, international business developer, on behalf of our industrial partnership agreement. Mayor, would you like to get started?
 Thank you, thank you so much. Well, if you have a good memory, you remember that we were here in November, so sometimes they ask me, you are more in Rockford than in Leeds, Shopee. So, I know a lot of you, a lot of you also during the months since I was here. So now we are here because we have celebrated our 10th year, and it's just...
 that times run so fast. And it's also been nice because both of us may have been the mayor in ten years and of course it's always easy I think to collaborate when you know each other and you know a person. So it has been very, very good our collaboration and we are very satisfied from our point of Swedish view.
 because you're short, so we have twin cities, but I have been mayor now in 25 years.
 So after all these twin cities we had, especially with the former ex-communist countries, and Anna said it really sucks. So then I got an idea with the companies in the Japan that we would try to find a partner in the American market.
 So I went to Chicago 11 years ago, and at the Swiss Jamaican Chamber we found Rockford. So that's the story, and for us it had given so, so much. And if I will decide in the future to continue with this forever,
 But because it's easy, you know, we speak English. If you try to collaborate with Chinese or Russian or other languages, it's very, very difficult. But we are more or less the same country. I used to say it's really just little America. And, yeah, so I had one minute. No, that's okay. So I...
 As a professional politician, I could easily speak to you in one hour, but it was just very short. So thank you for inviting us to be here now and follow you. And we will see each other, of course, in the weekend. And I hope we will continue this very good collaboration. And, of course, develop it, because we have so, so much we haven't done yet.
 for our citizens. So we just took a little memory gift here. Thank you. We will get more when we celebrate on Thursday. Thank you very much. Thank you. Just a few words for me too. I can say that we have evidence that this cooperation is good.
 in Lidköping because we have now this week's both the program for nurses at the Dragade Gymnasium and we have now this week and two weeks more the building constructions program at the same gymnasium as visitors in Rockford and we can say that the
 interest. We pupils
 wants to go these programs more and more. I am certain that the international part of these programs is one and maybe the main reasons because that this program has got more and more pupils every year. It's programs not so popular in usual, but
 more popular than many other programs just in Leeds-Shipping. And I think this cooperation is the main reason for that. Thank you.
 I just wanted to take the opportunity to thank our local mayors for your global vision. I really applaud you for taking this risk to work like this. I think it's a good success, and I hope you are both very proud of daring to do this. And I have a small kind of funny-looking water bottle to Glenn, since I see you every Saturday morning as we compete, but we run together 5Ks. So I thought here's a water bottle for you so you keep up the running. And thank you, Mayor, for all you do. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
 Before they get away, I just want to say a few words. I want to brag about my friend Shell. Not only has he been an outstanding mayor for the city of Lidschipping and really helped us to reconnect with our Swedish roots, as most should know, Rockford's deep part of our heritage is connected to the country of Sweden.
 And I truly understand our city better because of our relationship working together and the roots and the strength that we brought, our ancestors who helped to found this community really brought with them. But I will also say Shell is not only all of those things, but he's a great drummer. And he's part of a band in Blitzchibing called...
 The politicians, right? And so appropriately titled. So I don't know if you're going to sit in on any music this week, but if you see him at the Prairie Street Brewhouse or any other bars in town, say hi, and he may be with the band on stage because he's very, very, very good at what he does, and they are a real treat to watch. But thank you so much for all of your great work, and we look forward to having a lot of great events this week with you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Glenn, your water bottle is up here. I'll keep an eye on it. Thank you. So, yeah.
 We are going to go through our public speakers now as part of the meeting. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. And again, as a reminder, our speakers can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber and they'll have three minutes to make their comments. Ladies and gentlemen, in the book of Psalms, the 105th chapter, the 15th verse, it says, do not touch my anointed ones. Do my prophets no harm. What I want to speak about tonight, technology can transform the way police fight crime.
 High-speed police chase is extremely dangerous. At least 11,500 people were killed in police pursuit between 1979 and 2013. More than 5,000 of those deaths were bystanders or pashas. 139 were police officers. Injuries were in the tens of thousands. The cost from court settlements are estimated to be in the billions. According to the nonprofit Americans for Affected Law Enforcement,
 The high price and level of carnage has forced many police departments to rethink car chases, with some agencies rewriting their pursuit policy to restrict chases to suspected felons or people who present an imminent threat to others. But the issue has also compelled agencies to consider technology as a solution. And I have a solution to police pursuit. Is a GPS bullet.
 Rather than try to immobilize the fleeing vehicle and put the driver and pursuing police in jeopardy, police can put a tracking device on a vehicle and follow at a slower and safer speed. A compressed air launcher that is mounted behind the grill of a police cruiser fires a tag, which is a sort of bullet consisting of adhesive and a GPS transplant. Once the bullet is attached to the suspect's car,
 The police drop back, the driver of the flaring vehicle often slows down to stop once they think they're no longer being pursued, making it easy for the police to apprehend the person. I think police departments should use it, given the dangerous natures of pursuits. Police are trained to take calculated risks, but police chase extremely dangerous. For cops, and there can be high levels of guilt and grief should things go wrong. Pursuits can raise anger.
 and emotion resulting in aggressive confrontation when the suspects are stopped by pursuit. The vice gives officers time to let this anger pass. So by the time the pursuit is over they can think more clearly and make better tactical decision. I've been wanting to tell Congresswoman
 Cherry boost over this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend, and I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Roland Posca. It is really great to be back to City Hall. I, Fishy Whale, Roland Posca, finally got my life's work done.
 finished, look over my cookbook and see if there's anything worth passing on. Thank you. Mr. Whale has passed out a copy of his cookbook and I will circulate that around council members who want to take a look at it. Our next speaker this evening is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marci, our aldermen and our students of Rockford, Illinois, have something like you from Black Hawk polishing area.
 Proverbs say, Fear of peoples can hamper everything you try to do. In strange forms, it can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear of peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear of God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word. We are near the end of the year. We talk about how the police around the country are killing our youth. However, we do not talk about the black-on-black crime and the domestic violence.
 I found myself in the middle of much domestic violence and at-risk youth. We have babies raising babies. On top of that, we have too many of our young African American sisters that feel that they should take care of their child and some of these dysfunctional African American, out of work, uneducated felons, gang bangers, dope gang bangers.
 brothers with their pants hanging off their butts. We have a lot of our young mothers that want our help. However, when you do try to help them, some of them still go back to the same old domestic violence relationship. We have too many of our young mothers that are still in a relationship with violent young boys that's not coming back into their home. We are losing too many of our youth to gangs, drugs, violence, and the prison system.
 Just this past weekend, we have seen what several of our youth have gotten involved with violence and have been arrested. You too, youth, with violence points out there. American obsession with Trayvon Martin's case is not motivated by the desire for justice. If it were there, there would be an outcry for hundreds of black teenagers across the nation. Black life does matter. Why in Chicago we have over 500 youth killed, killing every year?
 Less important than Mike Brown or Eric Garner, domestic violence also known as intimate partner violence can happen to anyone regardless of gender, race, ethnic ancestry, sexual orientation, income or other factors. The victims, one in four women, will experience domestic violence during her lifetime.
 Women experience more than 400 million physical assault, rape, and because of their partners, men are victims of nearly 3 million physical assaults. Women are more likely to be killed by an intimate partner than a male.
 Just this past weekend, a female in Chicago was stabbed to death and her fiancé threw herself off the roof and committed suicide. Women ages 20 to 24 are at greater risk of becoming victims of domestic violence. Every year, one in three women who is a victim of homicide is murdered by her current or former partner.
 Every year more than 3 million children witness domestic violence in their homes. Children who live in homes where there is domestic violence are suffering abuse or neglect at a high rate, 30% to 60%. So I want to take a look back at African American families and talk about domestic violence. Where did it start and why? If we look back at slavery, the master
 I will finish this next week. I just want to take the opportunity to say that this past weekend we took 48 of our youth and 10 adults to the Irving Stone House where they only had 40 cupcakes and they said next time John we're going to call you and find out how many kids you're bringing. So we had brought a lot of kids to Irving Stone House for the Columbus Day weekend. And thanks for the ice cream and the cupcakes.
 Thank you. All right. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Toby Haldeman. What does this flag mean to you? Stop the violence and the silence, call Crime Stoppers. Approximately two weeks ago, a prostitute was found dead in a parking lot in the 1200 block of Broadway. She died of a heroin overdose, which she probably bought from one of the shops in the 1200 block of Broadway.
 Last week we had our monthly Neighborhood Watch meeting. At that meeting was a man who said that he was running for alderman of the 11th Ward. I will not tell you his name, so I'll just call him Fluffy. Well, Fluffy said that he had spent the last three weeks walking through our ward and that we have problems. He then droned on and on about how, if he were elected, he would magically make all of our problems disappear. Drug houses, gone. Burglaries, gone.
 Gone. Crime. Gone. Prostitution. Gone. Fluffy also went on to say, if I see a prostitute, I'll go up to her and tell her she has two weeks to get out of here. And if you don't, the next time you see me, I'll be with the police and then you will leave. Oh, Fluffy, if it were only true.
 So, after Fluffy was finished with his spiel, we moved on to other things. And just before our meeting was over, the president of our watch group asked if there were anything else, and I said yes. So I asked Fluffy this, Fluffy, you said that you've been walking through our neighborhood for the past three weeks pointing out all the crime and the problems that we have. I said that we've had these problems for more than three weeks. In fact, we have had them for more years than I care to count.
 But what really gets me and all of the people who are here tonight is that we meet here every month and have been meeting here every month for years and years. And every four years, you show up saying that you are running for alderman of the 11th Ward. You show up one time every four years. One time every four years, Fluffy.
 And so you've been at our meetings three times in 12 years, and you want to represent us. You want to be our voice. You want to make decisions for us and for the people of Rockford. Fluffy.
 You have no idea what it would take to represent the people of the 11th ward. You first have to be involved in your community, not just live in it. Anyway, as he was recovering from my barrage, he tried to butter me up by saying that I should run for alderman and that he watches my speeches and blah, blah, blah. So I said, Fluffy, I have no intention of running against Karen. Why? Because I don't think I or anyone else could do a better job than
 then Karen, of getting things done for the people of the 11th Ward. Fluffy had nothing to say. Moving on, one thing to remember is Hillary was fired from the DNC many, many years ago for lying and fabricating evidence in the Watergate scandal. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers. Again, our only order of business is under...
 Unfinished business, rule number three on the special meeting council agenda. Item one, Alderman Durkee, I believe that is yours.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item under Roman numeral 3, item 1. It's the East River TIF redevelopment project area development agreement with Madison Street Properties, LLC, for property collectively located at 220 South Madison, also known as Millennium Center, 307 Walnut Street and 323 Walnut Street. I place that up for passage. Thank you. The matter is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Turkey. Aye. Aye.
 Getsch. Aye. Mack. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. The matter passes. Thank you. No further business. I'm sorry.
 For the purposes of discussing threat litigation matters. Is there any discussion hearing none clerk, please call the roll jerky getches McNamara frost Herbie panel Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Beach Lea
 Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. The motion carries. We'll recess for a short period, hopefully a short period, to discuss threat and litigation matters. You too, Joe. Council meeting. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. Seconded. All those in favor of adjourning the special council meeting, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Seven. Thank you. Both in favor. Both in favor. Motion to adjourn.