Let us pray. Gracious God, what an opportunity to be able to lift the sinner leaders, the community members, and all that they do before your throne of worship. I ask as they make decisions tonight, as we decide, give them wisdom. Grant them all that they need. And as a community, may we always remember to pray for our leaders, because that's what your word instructs us to do. Thank you for your word, for your presence in this place today. Be glorified. We ask all this in Christ Jesus our Lord.
 of the United States of America and the security of the one which stands one nation under God indivisible, living in justice for all here here here here here here so this is a note of the San Francisco Tech of the San Francisco
 microphone so unless you press the button you're always on so each one of the microphones will be on so if you don't want to press the microphone please make sure you press the button so move second almost accepted I was saying I said everything
 We have several speakers lined up for a little participation this evening. A reminder, our speakers are entitled to three minutes. If they start to go over, I'll grab them for comments. Our first speaker this evening, Mr. Hayford, is the Prophet. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the Book of Psalms, the 119th chapter, it's the 111st, it says, Thou world is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. What I want to speak about tonight, government violence is a storm in the state of government.
 The child care system was put into effect in 1997 to assist parents who participated in education that could pay for child care, moving them from welfare to work.
 Over the years, CCAP has evolved to serve non-web heaven areas. Hurt and low wages. Eligibility for child care sub-lead is determined by income and work status. Payment is determined on a sliding fee scale based on income and family size. A series of conditions apply and reinterpretations apply every six months. CCAP has proven
 to keep people working and contribute to the economy of our state. CCAP made sense in 1997 when parents needed education to gain employment. CCAP makes sense now to keep families working. On July 1, Governor Bruce Lauder used his authority to enact a Russian rule that has devastated families
 in our community. The Mercy Room cuts the income guidelines for CCAP so drastically that families cannot get into the program. Before July 1st, a family of three could earn $3,098
 and 12 cents a month. Now that same family can make no more than $838.15 a month. To qualify for assistance, a full-time mid-wage job earns $1,320 a month. Although emergency rules expire on the 15th day after blackmailing November 28th, Governor Ron has started to step so they can cut some CCAPs currently. Statewide, 90% of families who require CCAP are being denied. In our region,
 that now have 322 families child care since July 1st. Child care centers are turning away families, forcing parents to quit jobs or leave young children alone or in last minute child care array that disrupts children's learning. Rockwood area child care centers have 265 open slots because they cannot enroll under these new guidelines. Child care centers throughout Illinois report that they have stopped hiring and are laying off staff. Cut students. She said people have got to pay
 impact to our local economy. It is estimated that parents receiving CCAP and IRED pay $519,840.26 in taxes. Local child care centers have more than 363 employees who pay $1,415,720 in income and social security taxes. Local child care centers and the parents they serve purchase from local figures.
 I urge you, people of Rockland, to seriously consider how you want your tax money spent. Does it make sense to assist low-income working families so that they can contribute to our economy? Doesn't it make sense why to pay welfare savings? Because families do not work and afford child care. Think about it. And we're also having a child care, and I'm leaving this with Hawking Beach, the trouble man. Thank you. I actually think this is a good job, right?
 Proverbs 28, verse 27 says, God will let you identify with the leading door. The second part of this proverb can be stated positively.
 Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. But we help others when they are in trouble. They will do whatever they can to return to faith. Paul promised that God would supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs?
 I'm still reading the book of Ego, Life, and Goal of Democracy. They talk about ways to address the problems that affect our lives, communities, and the nation. This past week, Thursday in the library on East 8th, today, I had a discussion about this.
 Take for instance, what is the difference between a volunteer and a worker for the system? There are studies showing that you can pin on grants from government agencies and large grant families. So they set the agenda to make the agenda of their family rather than priority for the community they serve.
 who are here and getting the power to be the world's about the citizens. No, they cannot. We must all work together in order to transform rightfully. I want to talk about upcoming events, but I also want to talk about the candidates of Black on Black Clients and the Magic Vouchers. We have been trying to make a change, but we cannot, we cannot, we cannot do this here. We do not work together in order to transform rightfully. Politicians,
 the city works, the police department, churches, schools, and social service organizations cannot cannot transfer a market alone. They are going to need the help of the citizens willing to volunteer their time. However, the working class of the power would be if you treat your
 treat your volunteers like second class citizens, then they are not going to be so willing to volunteer their time. There are some people in our facility work area that look down on the only person that do not have the job or that's a fellow. There are people down here that have mad skills. They just need to be able to do this.
 Also continue to stop taking important resources off the west side of town or the west side of the river and placing everything on the east side of the river. Take a guess. They want to move this property center from off of North Roxy and move it over to Riverside close to I-90.
 So if you do not have a ride, you will not have any way to get to what is now called Mercy Hospital. Not only have they looked at what they are trying to do to the public aid and the child support building down there off of A-Rodder Street, they are going to move that way out of East State Street into Old Key's Mercy Store. So now everyone who is moving
 who have to go across town, look at the double standards. We can come and use the service down on the east side of town. However, some of the people who have most to live on the east side of town, look at the way some of the people act when they heard and learned that our team is going to build a subdivision department home in Newtown. See, if I wasn't working for the citizens,
 and some of the things I'm saying to you, they were fighting each other to do. We have a lot of highly educated students out here that are out of work, and they do not want to just sit around and complain because they do not have a job. Take myself, man. Instead of complaining all the time, we do like to help others by working outside the box and cutting through where they're taking. I'm not worried about how I'm going to get paid. I'm leaving it in the Lord's hands and they are thinking what we are doing.
 We got to try and do it. By taking one day at a time, we have to start working together in order to transform Rockland. They say Rockland. Okay, just to conclude, they say Rockland. The second worst city in America, we can change on it by working together. And just this past Saturday, just for the long, I got over five, Chichester, I got five minutes to go out. There's one thing, imagine what I can do if I was out there the whole week with you.
 Because if the doctors, if the doctors, if they're getting their movement, Rockford Memorial Hospital is way out there on the other side. Thank you. Our next speaker is Mary O'Fella. Hi, I'm Executive Director of Youth Services next following Friday and everybody else's footsteps. I'm very pleased that you are developing Connect Rockford in order to examine and do something about crime, especially juveniles.
 The unfortunate component is that there are no services for juvenile delinquents in our community to align with. With RPS 205, you had them to align with.
 Let me explain. The day reporting center called the DRC, which was funded by Winnebago County, was closed in 2014 due to a lack of financial resources. Delinquent youth on probation went to the DRC after school until 9 p.m. While there, they received tutoring, digital counseling, life skills training, and job skills. The goal is the teens idle street time with productive activities.
 There used to be some 1% jail time referendum funding available for juveniles. It is very, very limited at this time. The Redeploy Illinois grant, which was secured by Winnebago County Probation from the Illinois Department of Human Services, the services were provided by Youth Services Network. We received $306,000 last fiscal year. We served 45 boys ages 13 to 17 in the past year and a half.
 We provided evidence-based individual, family, and group counseling, tutoring and school monitoring, life skills training, job skills training, and recreation. We kept the boys off the street from between 8 to 16 days on their individual needs.
 We had a parent engagement specialist who worked with parents, many of whom had their own concerns and issues. Five of our boys went to the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice, which is juvenile jail, in one and a half years. None of the graduates were refunded as of last Wednesday when I laid off five of my staff program due to the budget impasse. We had five boys last week as of last Wednesday that had jobs.
 While we're attending some type of education, one of the boys in the past month earned his GE through the Elevate grant, and with much tutoring help from this YSN case manager. I had to end the program last Wednesday. I laid off four master's level staff and one master's level staff, all of whom lived in Rockford.
 YSN is over $80,000 in the pool for one quarter of operation. However, we save the taxpayers $111,000 each time we keep a youth out of IEJJ. Coming to John Johnson at probation, there are over 600 youth currently on probation in Winnebago County. 78 commitments were the average in deploying. Last year, there were 36 commitments. This current year, there's only been 24.
 Certainly boys can be referred for searches, but an hour a week does not do it for our boys. Let me tell you about that. First of all, Okay, it's up to you to help. Whether with the budget impasse or with funding, give me $220,000 and save the taxpayers $4,400,000. If we keep the $80,000, which is coming from reserves, it takes a long time to find male staff who want to work.
 with bachelor's degrees, you want to work with them. I don't want the program to end. I don't want to lay off my staff. From a community standpoint, you need the program back. And most of all, the boys need it back because they all want it. That's the statement of the day.
 Shots fired, 11th Avenue, 8th Street, red zone. Shots fired, 1200 block, Broadway, red zone. Robberies, red zone. Assaults, red zone. Burglaries, red zone. Prosecutions, red zone. Two weeks ago, I asked for boots on the ground and at least two cameras on Broadway. No action from the city or the police. If you had implemented, you could have possibly averted the shots fired, but we will never know.
 I'm tired of reporting on the red zone. People in the red zone should be given bulletproof vests. People in the red zone should automatically be eligible for concealed carry. Homeowners who live in the red zone should not have to pay real estate taxes. In fact, homeowners living in the red zone should reimburse their taxes for the last 25 years. Highest call for service, 25 years, red zone.
 As I stated two weeks ago, we should not have to wait one more year to see an increase of police on Broadway. We should not even have to wait one more week. The politicians have ruined Chicago. Did you know Chicago is no longer called Chicago? It's called Chirac. Please don't let Rockford be called Irak-ford.
 Will Joe Biden run for president? Yes, he will because Obama wants a third term. Bernie Sanders is not a violent candidate as he is an infinite socialist. Hillary Clinton is now saying she wants a nationwide gun ban and that repealing the Second Amendment is worth considering.
 The Democrats have really blown this election cycle with the bottom of the barrel candidates. What they have done is handed the presidency over to the Republicans. But don't worry, because in 2020 Rahm Emanuel will be running. Where will he be getting all of his money? From his brother who just happens to own Hoover. Don't believe me? Look it up. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening will be with us. The red light is on. Sometimes.
 It is hard to believe that Rockford can lead the world. Sometimes it is very hard to believe that Rockford can do the impossible, achieve respect for all, and prejudice, and violence, expand thinking, and the money supply. Abraham Lincoln showed us where it was, but the smart elements keep directing us elsewhere.
 plus end the war, end war in 63 years. Borrow my book. Last week, I finished it. Took 36 years. And the obvious question is, was it a waste of time? What is not a waste to try is not to try. Thank you. We have a speaker this evening. Mr. President, Mr. President. Thank you, John. I have one. I have a referral memo from Jennifer Yeager, Community Services Directorate.
 Regarding approval of a certificate of consistency with the consultative pedigree, this memorandum will refer to the planning and development of the solicitation. Senator May, please. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, I have a referral staff providing potential amendments in the revolving loan fund program. I'm sorry, the revolving loan fund program for the Rockford Watch Factory and other possible amendments. Item 2 is a referral memo.
 from Waukegan City of Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney regarding the second amendment to the 2015 Development Agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement Inc. The third is a referral memo from Chris Black, our Finance Director, regarding the 2015 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. Item four is a referral memo from Chris Black, our Finance Director, regarding the 2015 Property Tax Abatements.
 Item five, also a memo from Chris Black, finance director, regarding 2015 property tax levy and street bridge ordinance. Item six is a referral number from Mark Rose, land acquisition consultant regarding tax abatement on foreclosure properties. And item seven is a referral number from Patrick Hayes, our legal director, regarding a fiscal agency agreement, a fiscal agency agreement, agreement,
 between the city of rockford and the rockford metropolitan agency for planning for our land those items to be referred thank you your honor first item i have is a referral number from the legal department regarding 648 high crest road second item is we have 4302 11th street world down at the county notes assistant operations manager regarding shop on stage special events
 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Court item 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3.
 We have several proclamations and two special presentations this evening. I'm going to start with our special presentations. First, I invite Dan Riggs of Clem Arboretum to join us, along with other members of the American Blue Rockford Contingency to come forward to make a presentation. Mark Stockman and Mitch Leatherby of our Public Works Department will also be joining.
 Thank you very much. As chairman of the Rockford American Bloom Committee, it's a great pride that I bring back to Rockford special recognition by our urban forestry, that commission with our urban forestry program, and that is run by Mark Stockton and Mitch Levy. So I, again, with great pride, present this to Mark and Mitch for their great efforts in keeping Forest City the Forest City. Thank you very much.
 I would like to thank Dan Riggs for this recognition. A few other people I'd like to thank as well. Of course, the judges for the American Boom Competition had some very positive things to say about our forestry program. I would certainly be remiss if I did not thank the mayor of this council. If you recall, a few short years ago, there was a council action that added additional staffing into our forestry operation. That additional staffing has allowed us to attain the level that you've reached today.
 Trust me, there's much work to be done yet, but this is certainly an affirmation that our forestry program is moving in the right direction. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for all your continued efforts. As we look at all the work that we've done through the Emerald Ash Borer and all the other challenges, the recognition we received from American Bloom is greatly appreciated and a great indication indeed that we're moving in the right direction. Next, we have a presentation from our friends from Lid Shipping.
 We have visitors visiting here tonight, part of a similar program that we've done in past years. Tonight I'd like to introduce the group of nurses from Sweden who are here supporting internships at Swedish American Hospital. Alinea Bengtsson is here.
 again to help us, who's been supported. Thanks to great support from our friends, Mayor Hedvall and others from Lid Shipping. And tonight she'll be making our introductions discussing this industrial partnership and our partnership specifically with the hospital. Lynette.
 Your Honor, Council Members and employees and citizens of the City of Rockford, thank you so much for having us here tonight. Tonight I have a group of people from Leach Up in Sweden, and they are here as a result of our industrial partnership agreement that we have with you at the city, Winnebago County, the Swedish American Health System. For a couple of weeks they are here doing practical work at Swedish American Hospital. It is one of the great results of how we can learn from each other, the purpose of why we're doing this.
 how grateful we are to work with you, is to grow locally by working globally. And I will have the group introduce themselves. My name is Elisabeth and I'm the instructor for this group of students from Bitco. My name is Beatrix Pettersson-Wall. My name is Nora Hernqvist. My name is Esther Espinosa-Blandina. My name is Kajsa Svendsson. My name is Natalie Jonte. And my name is Alexandra Gustavsson.
 My name is Dina Österberg. My name is Linnea Karlsson. And my name is Katarina Svoldström, and I'm an instructor in analysis. And we are also very glad to be back here in Rockford. Thank you, and we want to also thank Swedish American Hospital again for sponsoring and supporting our industrial partnership. And all of the great work, Linnea, I want to thank you again for all your great work supporting the partnership. Thank you.
 Next we have proclamations. I invite our first proclamation, includes Deputy Chief Mike Dahlke from the Rockford Police Department and other staff that I hear from Gigi's Playhouse to accept the proclamation for Down Syndrome Achievement Month, and I invite them to please come forward.
 Whereas approximately one in every 691 children are born with Down syndrome, the United States representing an estimated 6,000 births per year. Whereas currently in our country more than 400,000 individuals are living with Down syndrome.
 Whereas in Rockford, Gigi's Playhouse, the Down Syndrome Achievement Center, has been the cornerstone of hope and success for individuals with Down Syndrome and their families. Whereas Gigi's Playhouse is a one-of-a-kind achievement center for individuals with Down Syndrome, their families and community. And Gigi's Playhouse offers more than 25 therapeutic and educational programs that are including advanced literacy, math skills, motor skills and more, all of which are free of charge.
 Now therefore, I, Lawrence Day Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 2015 to be Down Syndrome Achievement Month. And we encourage our citizens to work together to promote the respect and inclusion of individuals with Down Syndrome and to celebrate their accomplishments and contributions. Hi, my name is Caroline Barr. I'm 20 years old and I'm a teenager.
 I'm in seventh grade at Westmore School. I'm in the Creative and Performing Arts program. I love it. My parents said it's perfect for me because I'm a drum queen. I like magic waddles, flamingos, and going to see movies and musicals. I also have dance with them, although it takes me longer.
 to learn to do things. It's amazing what I can do. I play piano, I take test lessons, and I'm in a student club. I'm currently included in my school. I have 3.8 GPA, and I'm in National Art Society. When I grow up, I want to go to college, drive a car, live in an apartment, and get a job with kids. Do you see how DropCode will help you do it?
 Thank you for supporting Gigi's Playhouse. The kids and dogs make me. Wow, look at that Colleen! You got a standing o! Larry Morrissey, City Council and the citizens of Rockford, Illinois. We are so grateful to have this honor and at Gigi's Playhouse, we are helping individuals like Colleen
 and Kendall to achieve their goals. As you can see, she has goals. So our mission is to inspire and empower individuals with Down syndrome to succeed in life. Thank you for acknowledging that this month, and I hope that you can stop by Gigi's Playhouse Rockford soon. Thank you. Upstanding job, thank you very much. Thank you, that's really, that's really. Next, we have a proclamation for the night away of the Rock River Valley.
 And I invite Tricia Welty and Matt Zaremski of the United Way and others that may be here on behalf of their organization to come forward and accept the proclamation for Rock River Valley United Way Week. Whereas the United Way of the Rock River Valley has been empowering neighborhoods, strengthening families and improving the quality of life for our community since 1919.
 Whereas the United Way creates change by inspiring donors, mobilizing partners, and helping people overcome challenges to a better life. Together with partners across the area, the United Way invests in community programs and initiatives that drive measurable lasting impact so that no single donor or organization or those that no single donor or organization could achieve alone.
 Whereas the United Way reduces child poverty and builds hope for families, helping children succeed in school, connecting adults to jobs and economic opportunities, and building safe and healthy neighborhoods. Whereas giving to the United Way is the most effective way to collectively impact lives in the rock and roll community.
 Now therefore I, Lawrence Dan Morris, as Mayor of the City of Rock River, do give our proclaim October 19th of 2015, the week of October 19th of 2015, the United Way of Rock River Valley Week. We encourage our citizens to join the Live United movement and to financially support the work of the United Way of the Rock River Valley, providing invaluable services to our community. I want to thank the Mayor first of all and the Council for
 This exciting proclamation. And at a trying time like this without a state budget, the support of the city means more than ever. The only check that some of our agency partners, our $50 profit partners, can count on each month is from the United Way. And that comes from you and the city of Rockford. So we really need your support in these trying times, and we can't thank you enough for this United Way week. Thank you.
 Next, we have a proclamation for Head Start Awareness Month. I encourage George Davis and other members from our Human Services Department, including Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, and Sharon DeBerry, Policy Council Chairperson, and the Head Start parents that are here tonight to please come forward.
 Whereas the National Head Start program, since its establishment, has helped millions of low-income children and their families and has earned recognition and support for success in early childhood education and development. Whereas the City of Rockford Community Services Head Start program serves 723 children and their families in our community.
 providing a head start around education and transition services. Where as the health and nutrition aspects of the program can improve prevention, detection and treatment of children's medical, dental and nutritional needs. Addressing barriers to growth and learning. Where as one of the most significant factors in the success of Head Start has been the involvement of parents, volunteers and the community.
 And whereas all of Rockford is committed to the welfare of our children and our families, now therefore I, Lawrence Dean Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do give up the claim on October 2015 to the Head Start of our district. We urge our citizens to support the Head Start program and their commitment to creating a quality program providing young children with a Head Start in life.
 Thank you, Mayor. And again, I want to thank the city council for its ongoing support of Head Start in this community. Serving the residents of Winnebago County, but primarily Rockford due to the fact that most of the eligible families we serve happen to live in Rockford.
 I think it's important for you to be able to see the families who are involved and engaged in Head Start and maybe if they're so inclined, maybe to hear a little bit from them about their experience with the program. I know you all know basically what Head Start does, so we won't necessarily recite that, but I would like to maybe take the opportunity to ask that some of the parents that are here tonight would say a few words about their experience.
 I'd like to say that not only is this Head Start Awareness Month, but it is the 50th anniversary of Head Start. In 1965, Lyndon Johnson said, We set out to make sure that poverty's children are not forevermore poverty's captives. We call this program Head Start. Thank you for supporting all of our families.
 My name is LaShondra Kimbrough. She's dead. He started out as a homeowner and now is a member of the Dennis Elementary Love School. I'm Abcetic McGord. I just want to say Head Start. He's done great things for my son. I see great development in his life and it's great for the community. So please, the Boy Head Start also has helped me a lot, gave me an opportunity for a lot of experience. So Head Start is definitely important. Rockford has helped my child develop and also made some changes.
 My name is Akimi Taylor and this is Kimari. Julia. Julia went through the Head Start program and Kimari is the Head Start progressed by it. It's a really good one. I recommend it to anyone. The teachers are awesome. They do a lot of really fun things. It's not just a boring school they go to. They get to actually learn about a lot of important things. So they get them really prepared to go to kindergarten. So I love the program.
 I just want to thank the mayor, city administration, alderman for your ongoing support, but I especially want to thank the parents and children for coming out this evening. These parents are on the Policy Council Governing Board of Head Start, so they make decisions about the budget, about the LEAD program, and are a key part of what we do. Thank you.
 Thank you very much again. Our next proclamation is for American Pharmacists Month. I'm accepting on behalf of the University of Illinois College of Pharmacy, and I invite those friends that are here to please come forward. Grace Shret, Sarah Gubala, Elmore Pineda, and Noviades Krolos. Whereas pharmacy is one of the oldest healthcare professions and dedicated to health and well-being,
 Whereas today there are over 254,000 pharmacists licensed in the United States, with nearly 18,000 pharmacists in Illinois providing service and healthcare, counseling to assure the rational and safe use of all medications, with the help of 38,000 pharmacy technicians. Whereas the use of medication as a cost-effective alternative to more expensive medical procedures is becoming a major force in moderating overall healthcare costs.
 whereas today's powerful medications require greater attention and safety regarding the manner in which they are used by different patient populations, both clinically and demographically.
 Whereas the American Pharmacists Association and the Illinois Pharmacists Association have declared October as American Pharmacists Month with the theme Know Your Medicines, Know Your Pharmacists. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrisey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, in the Rock claim October 2015 to be American Pharmacists Month. And we urge our citizens to acknowledge valuable services of pharmacists as healthcare providers and provide safe, affordable, and beneficial pharmaceutical, pharmacist-delivered patient centered care to all of our citizens.
 consumer defense proclamation. Pharmacists are the most accessible healthcare professionals and work in a variety of practice settings, including community pharmacies, hospitals. Pharmacists not only fill prescriptions, but also do a number of other tasks, such as antibiotic stewardship in the world of growing resistance, vaccination and smoking cessation programs as we pursue a healthier nation.
 diabetes care management, and even medicine reconciliation to ensure that our patients receive the best possible care tailored to their needs. These are just a few of the many things that pharmacists play a role in in the medicine. As members of APHA, ASP, and USC student pharmacists, we are working towards making our community of Rockford a healthier place. We provide a number of community outreach events, from blood pressure and blood sugar screenings, to educating people on the proper use of medications, to immunization education, and many more.
 We are proud of the profession we as students chose to pursue and we look forward to what pharmacy can become in the future. Know your medicine, know your pharmacies. Thank you. Thank you very much. We have one final proclamation this evening. This is for Circles of Learning Day. And I invite Anita Rummage, Executive Director for Circles of Learning, and those that are here to present on behalf of the organization, please come forward and accept the proclamation.
 Whereas Circles of Learning has been in existence since 1972 as a not-for-profit, state-licensed child care facility with a long and distinguished record of high-quality affordable child care services for local families. Whereas Circles of Learning currently serves 261 children, employing 54 teachers and staff
 Aware Circles of Learning provides enhanced preschool services, partnered with RPS 205 Early Childhood, Infant Toddler Care, and After School Care, School-Age Summer and Holiday Care, and Nutritional Services, as well as comprehensive family support systems for local residents. Aware is with an expansion of more than 13,000 square feet to their building in 5711 Wainsford Way. Circles of Learning is able to increase capacity to 366 children.
 the building expansion and services that enhance the lives of so many. We're celebrating Monday, October 12, 2015. Now, therefore, I, Lord State of Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, hereby proclaim October 2015 to be the Service of Learning Month and we urge citizens to support the support of the work and embrace our proud child care and education industries
 Thank you very much. Thank you for having me here. And I would like to thank especially Joseph Chiarelli for coming to our celebration last week and speaking and providing us this proclamation. It was very exciting for us to have Circles of Learning Day and to have Circles of Learning Month. I'm equally honored, and I was very pleased when I arrived here tonight and I heard Prophet Yusuf talk. He actually was speaking.
 about the child care assistance program and that has been a huge concern for us. He, to my delight, he was actually reading my article in the paper yesterday. So very, very exciting to hear that, to see that that was encouraging to people. But our biggest concern right now at Circles of Learning, now that we have this expansion and that we can serve more children, is the child care assistance program in the state of Illinois has been cut.
 so that we are not able to fill this new space. We have 140 spaces for children. We have 60 preschool openings because families that are low income cannot access the program.
 So we encourage you to listen to what's happening at the state level and also to support Senate Bill 570, which is coming for a vote that will change the requirements back so that low-income families can access child care. Thank you. Committee reports. Vote 30 in a legal five-year committee report. Lay at Idaho for your honor. And we're on 7401 Arlington.
 I would say I have a matter of 74-01, I don't know. Thank you, Your Honor. Under number 5C1, we have vouchers in the amount of $7,402,757.16. And I would place the vouchers under pass. I believe we need a motion to suspend the motion. So moved. Second. Mr. Hays to appear.
 So, Matt, let's open the passage for these guys to go out. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Matt, are you ready to pass this thing? Couple items this evening. First, I appreciate Alderman McNeely bringing to my attention that Robert Gibbs, age 78,
 passed away recently. His obituary appeared in the Rockford Register-Star. He was a long-time Rockford police officer, retired from the force in 1987. Very involved in numerous community organizations and I know all of you, and Nellie wants to say a few words and I'll let her go into some detail, but I just want to recognize him for his service and send our prayers and
 Also, my only other item that I have tonight is the referral of a nominee to the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, Don Williams, for a three-year term. He'll be replacing Brian Logan.
 that will lay over pursuant to council rules for three days. His greatest domain is attached to Board Review. I'm happy to discuss that. He is happy to speak to any council members as well as contact information. It should be on the information if you need any assistance. I'm happy to reach with him. I'm happy to, my office is happy to assist him. Further officer's reports, Owen Thompson, California.
 Are you still accepting resumes for the other OVC commissioners? Yes, we would like this. And the other thing I would like to share with my fellow Aldermen is that time of year again for our senior services and luncheon. And I wanted to make sure that you got the date properly to do your scheduling, which is November the 18th.
 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. And it's my understanding of the event, Clint, again this year. You will be receiving a notice because I think this was just finalized today with Chris, so I will be start begging next week for the dollars and for the gifts for the seniors, as well as the list for volunteer to help service.
 Again, it's November 18th from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. I appreciate your support. Thank you, Your Honor.
 May we go back for one moment to petitions and communications? Thank you. I neglected to list a referral. I emailed to most of the aldermen a proposed resolution that I would like to refer to the codes and regulations committee and it is to vest in the city council with the support in recruitment, selection, in recommending for both the chief of fire and the chief of police through
 the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners to handle those duties, but with the ultimate appointment to be made by the Rockford City Council on the advice and consent of the Rockford City Council. The resolution does not contain all of the details and procedures. It is being referred to codes and regs for that point. I do have it available for those aldermen who
 support the concept to sign if they would like but we would like to get that referred to the very next committee meeting so we can get to work on that prior to the need to appoint our new police chief thank you i just wanted to remind people that the northern neighborhood
 group meeting that normally meets the second Tuesday of the month is meeting tomorrow at 2 6 o'clock at Good Shepherd Church on Rockton Avenue I just want to remind you that I would like to see a lot of people there because there's a lot of stuff, there's a stuff about Rockton Thank you Thank you Mr. Mayor and thank you for mentioning we saw Mr. Gibbs Mr. Gibbs when I was the 16th District State Central Committee
 And his thing was within my district. We were more familiar with the area than myself, so we frequently went to the various meetings together. He certainly knew Rockford as he was a local police officer. His job as a police officer, turning the officers that he worked with. I attended the service yesterday in front of the police officers there that spoke with
 I'm sure it's not. Thank you just some clarification question for the board of trustees and I think it's
 the new individual that you would like to be named to the fire and police commissioners if we lay it over 30 days my estimation is that the chief retires in 26 days but they can continue to not meet until they have a full board or the board that you would like them to move forward with i guess on the current matter of commissioners who serve or who live still the current commission is still in place
 One thing I forgot to mention to people, we still have petitions out regarding those
 those who oppose some of the changes to Rockford Memorial Hospital. We now have a Facebook page where you can read some of the different fact sheets that we have posted and a summary of some of the changes. It also has the name and address of the person to whom letters can be directed in opposition to the changes. And I think it's very important that those who do want to see Rockford Memorial
 memorial remain holds from and viable as the west side institution that it has been for so many years including the trauma center, the full emergency room, the cardiac cath lab and all the other services, obstetrics, pediatrics, everything we would like to see continue in service to the community. You must get those letters written, you must get those petitions signed because we are
 very little appears to be coming through from the community. And if that's the case, I think it appears that Mercy Rockford has the support of the entire community. So, I know it's not something many of us are used to doing, but we're in the home stretch. The absolute deadline is October 28th. Alderman McNeely and I will be hosting a letter writing session at the Rockford Public Library this Saturday from
 From 10 until 6. From 10 until 6. We are not going to tell you what to say, but for those who don't have computers and printers, we will be there. We will take down what you wish to communicate to the board, and we'll help you get those. We'll even mail them in in large groups.
 So do join us today from 10 till, or Saturday, from 10 till 6 at the Rockford Public Library downtown branch on Wyman Street. And again, visit the Facebook page. It's called Straight Talk on Rockford Memorial. Thank you. Thank you, Molly. Thank you for allowing me to speak. In regards to the question I was asked by the press today,
 timeline in which your request or referral for recommendation for a new board member with 30 days laid over, I would put Mr. Hayes to explain that we have to do the 30 days laid over by the big law. That's all the stuff that we're going to be doing. We can suspend a couple months of pay in that lesson.
 There's no requirement under state law to lay it over for a specific period of time. Only state law that has to be provided to the province of the council is the only thing. Because the identity, we could not take final action. Any city council, city council would be able to suspend the motion on Mr. Woodman. So long as that matter would be. I just wanted to make sure that I'm on it. Okay. Thank you.
 I just would like to add on to what Alderman Kirby said. We passed out a lot of petitions and I would hope that, along with that, we passed out the information sheet with our name and number, so I hope that people will call us who will be more than willing to go and pick up the petitions if you're not able to bring them to us. And Mr. Mayor, I wasn't here last week, but I certainly heard, as the whole city heard about,
 Chief Epperson going to retire from us. And I would just like to say publicly that I appreciate all that you've done, Chief Epperson, for the city. There have been hard times during your tenure. Actually, from day one, there was questions and different cabinets.
 where should the chief come from, should it be from another city or whatever, because through that whole process, during that whole process, I supported you, and I have had my disagreements with you over the years. I do appreciate the knowledge you've got, and I appreciate it. So thank you. Thank you. So there are also some preventive businesses. You said preventive business, and there's no other business.
 I guess your honor, I believe staff had requested to hold this item out probably for a two week period in order to get some additional background sort of taking up the request. So we will hold that out. Thank you, Mayor. I have a resolution regarding the times that council members received that agenda, I'm referring that to the codes and regulations.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 8C, I have an award of bid. Sorry, my eyes aren't as good as they used to be here. An award of bid for public works materials to Rock Road Companies of Jamesville, Wisconsin and William Charles Construction of Love's Park for an estimated annual value of $260,000. The funding sources the street and water division operating budget.
 Item number two is award of an RFP for web design for the City of Rockford's new website to Graham Spencer of Rockford. For a cost estimate of $90,000, the funding source is the Information Technology
 operating budget. And item number three is an award of RFP to, for the Emergency Solutions Grant, the first to MEL in the amount of $45,455, to Shelter Care Ministries for $38,212, to Wemmities for $52,551, to Youth Services Network for $12,000.
 for $10,327. And the City of Rockford Human Services Department, $19,920. The funding source is HUD grant funds. Each contractor being responsible for their own matching funds. The city match will come from the Community Services Block grant funds. And I would place those three items up for passage.
 Yes, thank you. I'm wondering, on the award of emergency solutions grant, is that repayable when, I'm saying when, not if, they come up with a budget? Would this amount be repayable from that institution, or is this just a... It's a matter of asking the state to be happy to deliver it. That's correct. I think that our state...
 not a state grant. This is actually the direct federal emergency solution grant. Thank you. Your Honor, I was just along the same lines. We really have no responsibility to see if they ever match or not. Mr. Dupree, just to lay it in, I think we can bearable say that we are responsible to ensure that the grant recipients are able to match their funds before those funds and if at least, in fact, are not responsible for the loss of their funds.
 organizations and some of those that we receive ourselves, patients are unable to make their match and they're not eligible. So then will these funds come to the agency and we'll give the money out? Or is it coming directly from God to the state? It's coming from us. Us, the contractors, and these organizations receiving funds. Rachel, best of luck to you. The way the form of funds are distributed over the budget phase, the budgets we've developed and the program for all of it, it is disgusting.
 the models they develop in collaboration with the food organization they open up a response they have accountability to lessons in the system that's very important thank you not so much a question your honor but just a comment we talked a little bit in chairman's meeting today about
 and I'm hearing it from a lot of people in the community with the amount of homelessness and vagrancy that we have in the community. It is becoming acute in some areas of the city. I don't believe too many areas of the city are spared. It's at the same time alarming and heartbreaking because I do feel for the situations of some of the people, but it's to the point now where many of our children
 are making these encounters on their way to school and in the community. Along South Main Street, it is a significant concern. It is affecting people who are shopping and people who are driving their cars. It is particularly concerning around our schools, especially King's School. I'm not cold and not heartless, but I do not believe that we are going to
 to define how we administer these services, especially with regard to whether these agencies are attracting people to the city
 because our services are robust and they are not in other cities around the county I just think we keep saying this every year but this has got to be a regional solution Rockford cannot continue to be the depository for all homelessness and vagrancy and need within the community I understand that we are the recipient of the
 But that should not mean that we are the caretakers for the entire County of Winnebago. For that reason, I'm not going to support the Emergency Solutions Grant because I think it exacerbates a problem that we have never gotten a handle on. And I don't believe the continuum of care has done enough to document
 whether we are creating solutions or just bringing in more need. And I think bringing that need into the city is unfair to the city and especially to the people because we don't have the opportunity for them to truly move to self-sufficiency. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Not all three of them have been involved in these items. I move that AC-123 and R-F-F-S be plural as they go on. No, I'm free. I am the rest. Aye. Aye.
 no on three I on the remainder aye thank you the new business I only show one thing which is I see that it's a personnel that item will be held out during the meeting moved to adjourn seven aye thank you this is a I hope we got the real thing that's pretty nice
 Thank you.