To begin our evening, we have an invocation from Chaplain Calvin Culpepper of the Court Street Methodist Church. Let's pray. Dear Lord, we invoke your presence here with us. We know that you're here with us because we carried you in.
 The men and women of this fair city who have given the responsibility to direct and lead and distribute the resources here have the big task of trying to do that the right way. So we ask that you be with them in the decision making, the discernment and in all the directions they may go, that it may be to the benefit of not just these people in this room, but to the fair city of Rockford. In the name of Jesus, we pray. Amen.
 of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one land and the other. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Chiarelli. Here. Eleven present.
 Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on October 1st, 2018? Alderman Shirelli? Yes, I have an amendment to the journal, if I may.
 I move to amend the agenda item Roman numeral VB item 5B of the journal to reflect denial of a variation to reduce the required landscaping per submitted revised site plan in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 918 Broadway and 14XX South 6th Street.
 The agenda item did not contain a scrivener's error. Paragraph B accurately reflected a denial of the variation. City staff and zoning board of appeals recommended denial of the variation, but revised the conditions.
 Condition number four states that the property be developed as per revised site and landscaping plans submitted on September 18, 2018. And that not more than 16 vehicles shall be displayed for sale or stand outside. I place that amendment up for passage, your honor. We have a motion before us, do we have a second? So we have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on the motion to amend the meeting minutes for October 1st, 2018?
 No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. So now I'd ask for a motion to approve the amended journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on October 1st, 2018. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. That item passes. Excellent. Next up we have a number of proclamations this evening.
 No, just one amendment for the journal. Next up, we're going to do one of these with a lot of order. So first up, we have Assistant Deputy Chief Mike Dahlke and staff and members of GG's Playhouse. If Alderman Frost could be so kind as to grab... Oh, here he comes. And that's why you're first. We know that. How are you?
 Do you want to hold this? All right. Hi. How are you? Thanks for being here. Whereas approximately one in every 691 children are born with Down syndrome,
 representing an estimated 6,000 births per year in the United States. And whereas currently in this country more than 400,000 individuals are living with Down syndrome. And whereas in Rockford, Gigi's Playhouse, a Down syndrome achievement center, has been the cornerstone of hope and success for individuals with Down syndrome and their families. And whereas Gigi's Playhouse is a one-of-a-kind achievement center for individuals with Down syndrome,
 their families, and the community. Gigi's Playhouse offers more than 25 therapeutic and educational programs that advance literacy, math skills, motor skills, and more, all of which are free of charge. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2018 to be Down Syndrome Achievement Month.
 Chief, would you like to share a few words? Actually, we're going to have the vice president of our board, Penny, say a couple words here today. I'm always talking. Thank you, Your Honor. We really appreciate this opportunity to be here tonight with the city council, and we appreciate you recognizing Gigi's Playhouse and the Down Syndrome community here in the city of Rockford and the surrounding area. Thank you so much.
 No offense to NIPCA, but they are far cuter. Dave and any of your board members are more than welcome to come on up. I know. I'm sorry. Okay. So we have a proclamation for Northern Illinois Building Contractors Association Week.
 Whereas, October is designated as the National Construction Month, and whereas, construction is one of the largest economic drivers of our nation's economy, providing essential employment and infrastructure for our citizens. Whereas, the Northern Illinois Building Contractors Association has represented Rockford area builders for 100 years, and whereas, founded in 1918 by a group of local builders to stop
 To stop post-World War I hoarding, NIPCA has continued uninterrupted community service through wars, a depression, and amazing technological changes. And whereas the association has contributed to the enrichment of the community through education, apprenticeships, safety, building standards, and best practices, as well as leadership and public policy.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of October 15, 2018, Northern Illinois Building Contractors Association Week. Steve, would you like to share a few words?
 thank you very much uh mayor and councilmen and women uh for what it's worth my great grandfather was one of the original founders uh back in 1918 and uh it is a honor to be here and thank you very much for the proclamation and this 100 years of service to this community couldn't have happened without the cooperation of the city uh the city of rockford and uh
 everyone that works there and helps us out in the industry. So thank you very much. Thank you. They're not bad looking, just not as cute as next up. We have a YWCA week without violence. And I believe we have the CEO. Chris is with us and board members twice in a day. I'll take it. How are you? It's good to see you. We're going to give you another. Thank you.
 You can put that up in your wall of fame. Whereas gender-based violence impacts the lives of countless women and their families across the United States, with one in four women experiencing domestic violence, one in three girls experiencing physical, verbal, or emotional abuse, and more than three women murdered by their partners each day in communities across our country.
 And whereas immigrant women, women of color, women with disabilities, and LGBTQIA communities face heightened risks of violence and greater barriers to legal remedies and supportive services due to factors as limited English proficiency,
 barriers to access, fear of deportation, limited access to higher education and job resources, higher risk of poverty, limited resources for affordable childcare, and linguistic, cultural, religious, ethnic, and racial barriers to seeking safety from violence in their homes and communities.
 Whereas domestic violence survivors lose a total of 8 million days of paid work each year because of the violence they have experienced and are penalized in the workplace when they miss work to go to court, file police reports, seek medical attention, with up to 60% of victims losing their jobs due to their abuse.
 Whereas one of every four homeless women is homeless because of violence committed against her. And over 92% of homeless women have experienced severe physical and or sexual abuse during their lifetime.
 Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of October 15th through the 19th to be YWCA Week Without Violence. I think whenever you hear those stats, this is the second time I've read these stats today and they're more sobering each time. I just want to say on behalf of the city, we really appreciate the work that you all are doing. Would you like to share a few words?
 Mayor, I'd like to thank you for your leadership on this issue of gender-based violence. And to the City Council, thank you so much for your commitment to combating domestic violence and gender-based violence. Your commitment to this issue is commendable. Thank you. Great to see you. Next up, we have Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month and Melinda Hagerman.
 Whereas each year approximately 1 million pregnancies in the United States end in miscarriage, stillbirth, or the death of a newborn child. And whereas the observance of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month offers us the opportunity to increase our understanding of the great tragedy involved in the deaths of unborn and newborn babies. And whereas participating in a Walk to Remember each year gives families time together to remember the children whose precious lives ended far too soon.
 And whereas circumstances of loss may differ with each family, but the need to share their memories and the love for their children is healing. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of October to be Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month. Would you like to share a few words, Melinda? Thank you, Your Honor, and thank you, the City Council, for the acknowledgment of this
 subject that is not discussed too much. And this was the 29th year that Fitzgerald Funeral Home and the foundation of Swedish American Hospital has sponsored a Walk to Remember to acknowledge miscarriage, stillborn, and early infant death and childhood death.
 And so we do thank you so much for helping us to make this well-known and make people feel more comfortable coming out. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your commitment. That's yours. Thank you. Next up, we have Polio Eradication Awareness Day, and we have the Rockford Rotary President, David Burns, as well as a Rockford Rotary board member, Dr. Jeffrey Smith. Thank you for your attention.
 Whereas Rotary members in Rockford, Illinois are among millions reaching out on World Polio Day to raise awareness, funds, and support to end polio, a vaccine-preventable disease that still threatens children in parts of the world today. And whereas since Rotary and its partners launched the Global Polio Eradication Initiative nearly 30 years ago, the incidence of polio had plummeted by
 by more than 99.9% from 350,000 cases a year to just 37 cases in 2016. And whereas to sustain this progress and protect all children from polio, Rotary has committed to raising $50 million per year over the next three years in support of global polio eradication efforts.
 And whereas, to raise awareness for this important battle against disease, Rockford Rotary is hosting a presentation open to the public on Wednesday evening, October 24th, 2018, at 6 p.m. at the University of Illinois College of Medicine, and all in Rockford are welcome. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 24th, 2018 to be Polio Eradication Awareness Day. Would you like to share a few words? Sure. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council, for getting behind this program. Like we like to say in the Rotary International, we are this close to eradicating polio worldwide. It may be the most important or significant public health achievement of the 21st century. So we are very proud of what we're doing. I think there have been 15 cases this year worldwide of polio, and we're trying to bring it down to zero.
 We plan to talk about the importance of this development at the University College of Medicine. And on October 24th, the program is free. We'd like to see as many as possible come out and hear it. Dr. Gary Rifkin is going to come and explain what the significance of this event is all about. And we'll talk a little bit about what the program is about
 Rotary International is doing to eradicate polio worldwide. So thank you 6 p.m. Next up we have petitions and communications planning and development committee alderman bill rose. Thank you your honor We only have one item for planning and development committee It is a memorandum from Matthew Simpson the economic development and diversity procurement coordinator regarding Rockford community partners work plan progress reports and
 for keeping or for keep northern illinois beautiful swift and river district association referred to planning and development committee thank you alderman ropes next up we have our code and regulation committee alderman shirely thank you honor got four items this evening the first is the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on october 16 2018 in the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulations committee meeting on october 22nd 2018.
 The second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on October 16, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on October 22, 2018. The third is a memorandum from LaFecurie Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the pre-annexation of 5430 North Main Street.
 The fourth is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding the 2019 City Council and Committee's calendar. All four of those items, Your Honor, will be referred to Codes and Rights Committee. Thank you, Alderman Trelle. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I have seven items tonight, the first being a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, our engineering operations manager, regarding First Lutheran Church and a lot lease renewal.
 Item number two is a memorandum from Mike Hankinson, our land transaction officer, regarding the acceptance of an offer to purchase the city-owned vacant lot located at 2648 11th Street. Item three is a memorandum from legal director Nicholas Meyer regarding the adoption of the City of Rockford domestic violence policy.
 That'll be, all of these will be referred to Finance and Personnel. Item 4 is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, our Finance Director, regarding the 2018 Property Tax Levy and Street and Bridge Ordinance. Item 5, memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the 2018 Property Tax Abatements Ordinance. Item 6, memorandum from Xavier Whitford.
 Central Services Manager regarding the lease agreement for the purchase of a CAD RMS system for 911 in the police department and item 7 a memorandum from Charvet Whitford Central Services Manager regarding a lease for three fire trucks Your honor those seven items will be all will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you Alderman Irving I
 Director Meyer. May I interrupt? I'd ask that item number two be held out and not referred to committee. We are anticipating receiving a competing offer on this property. We've allowed the new potential purchaser additional time to make an offer. So I'd like to hold it out and refer that in two weeks. Do we need Alderman Hervey to make that? No, I'm just letting Council and committee know. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next up we have public speakers. We have five public speakers this evening. Just remind all public speakers that you have three minutes and there's microphones at both ends of the council chambers. The first public speaker we have this evening is Mr. Donald Wright. Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, City Council, and good evening, department heads. Thank you for receiving me. The reason that I'm here tonight is
 And to practically almost be wasting your time, it's about parking lot discrepancy. In parking lot number 9, I received a $20 ticket. I know $20 is insignificant, I can really pay it, but I want to stand for something and I won't fall for anything. The labeling within this lot is crazy.
 It's not like your defined parking lot here where you got the two hour parking and the permitted parking in the back. That's simple. We understand you can pull in and understand it. But I got some pictures here that will show you that when you pull in, it says two hour parking. You turn to the left, it says two hour parking. But on the very back, on the very back, there's another sign. It says permit parking only. As a driver, when you drive in,
 You know, you can't define that as you're driving. And all throughout this lot, it has intermingled permit parking and two-hour parking in lot number nine. This parking lot is right across the street from the Park District building. I believe that traffic engineering can do a better job with this. If you want captured parking, just take an area and define that area as permitted parking.
 On another side of the parking lot, say, hey, two-hour parking. Don't have two-hour parking here, permit parking, two-hour parking here. And I appealed this and went and I showed them the ticket, I mean the pictures. They says, sir, you're guilty. You parked in the wrong place.
 And I says, really, with all this information I gave to you, you're going to say I'm guilty? I mean, this is controversial right here. I was hoping that you waived this. He didn't. So what I say is I come to city council to waste your time. I saw a $4.2 million Costco consideration that Costco is going to receive. I'm here as a citizen with about a $20 ticket. I don't think that it was adequately received.
 And that's why I'm here to you. I want to complain about parking lot number nine, that it be revisited. And this parking lot is going to be right across the street from our new hotel that we have downtown. And so are we going to let our new people come into our downtown area parking a lot and receive a $2 ticket because they don't understand the parking regulations? I have other tickets here also. So also what I would ask,
 Thank you Mr. Wright. We'll have a staff member come out and meet you to grab that information. Thank you sir. Thank you everybody. Next public speaker we have this evening is Prophet Yusef. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Philippians, the fourth chapter, the 13th verse, it says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. What I want to speak about tonight, youth unemployment is a social time bomb.
 The United States has become a haven for its problem with hoodlums among young people. United States newspaper filled with stories of drunken lairs, brawling gangs, beatings, robberies, burglaries, carjacking, burning down vacant buildings, knifing, shootings, killings.
 and a generalized and thuggish, uncivilized behavior. And it's getting worse. Last fall, the government released figures showing youth unemployment is worsening. The rate of unemployment among 16- to 24-year-olds reached a record 30 percent, with the number of youths drawing government benefits near one million. The United States youth unemployment rate is bad. Having so many young people idle is a social as well as an economic problem of critical proportions. A social time bomb is about to explode
 in the United States. Study after study has shown that youngsters who cannot find work are far more likely to commit crimes or to enter permanent jobs than someone who has already been in the labor market. An idle mind is a playground for trouble, lacking purpose and the means of expending their energy productively. Many young people are spending idle time drinking, using drugs and partying. And others get together and roam the streets, wrangling families, communities and the elderly with their stupid
 often dangerous behavior, crime rates rise, incidents of violence. Wise King Solomon wrote in Proverbs 28, the 19th verse, he who cultivates his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless people and pursuits will have poverty. Young people are a valuable resource in any nation. Every family's responsibility and even a task of a responsible government of leaders is to cultivate the next generation of men and women and to product
 members of society. The United States families and so-called government leaders are failing in this area. The result of the perverse states will be poverty, homelessness, crime, economically, morally, and socially. My solution to this problem, train youths for jobs like they do in the middle. This will help you have qualified workers. This also will stop companies from saying they don't have qualified workers.
 I also been wanting to get this off my chest for a long time, and I'm going to do it tonight. Congresswoman Boussot and my good friend, Ms. Jennifer, the head of domestic violence. I don't like you. I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday.
 to you and God bless you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is John Tech Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor Tom McNamara, our aldermen, all the women, and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. Proverbs 27, with all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who most deserve attention, faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the hood. The people who stand behind you, who work hard and help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success. Be sure that in all your work, planning, and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most.
 What is Community Action Agency? Community Action Agency are private and public nonprofit organizations that was created by the federal government in 1964 to combat poverty and geographically designed designated areas.
 I want to thank the city of Rockford and the Community Action Agency Board. I will be giving an in-depth report on the conference board training agenda and and the other meetings about the trip to Springfield, Illinois. I was also relieved and blown away by everything they talked about and wanted to do. We are already trying to do right here in Rockford.
 With the mayor spearheading the Rockford Rally Against Domestic Violence during the first May of March, 100 March, with the Rockford Mayor bringing awareness to domestic violence with First Step Project Rebuilding Rockford aimed to diversify the workforce, hiring low-income
 18 and older, transferring Rockford, joining their team, turning the Barbara Coleman building into something like a VOTEC, the Rockford Police Department working on building a better relationship with the community. Most of all, many things that the Renewal Turning Point is doing in the community with the youth and adults.
 seen me, sending me to this conference reinforced and gave me more wisdom to continue to do what we are trying to do in our city. This past weekend, we was at Lockwood Park for Columbus Day. Once again, this past weekend, we celebrate Columbus Day, yet the standing truth is Christopher Columbus were alive today, he would be put on trial for crime against humanity.
 Columbus' reign of terror as documented by a noted historian was so bloody, his legacy so unspeakably cruel that Columbus made a modern villain like Solomon Sain look like a pale codfish. The real story of Columbus when he made landfall in the Caribbean, he believed it to be Asia. His attention destination, his navigator was a Moroccan that lived in Spain that came from Northern Africa.
 He never came or landed in North America. There have been five presidents who assumed office after losing the popular vote. Between them, they nominated 12 justices who ended up serving on the Supreme Court. On Saturday, President Trump...
 Trump nomination of Brett Kavanaugh's position passed the Senate. This number would climb to 13. Kavanaugh, though having a distinct honor, he would be the first justice nominated by someone who lost a popular vote to earn his seat on the bench with support from senators representing less than half of the country while having his nomination opposed by the majority of the country. Senators voted 50 to 48, almost entirely along the party line. Thank you.
 our next public speaker this evening is uh mr joshua plumber good evening mayor good evening leaders of city council my name is joshua plumber and actually i'm a representative uh basically the veterans drop-in center and actually i came here on a little bit more of a positive note but basically what we're offering for the community is veterans that are trying to get out of poverty and try to make something positive in our life and i do believe and i see winnebago and a lot of people here before me that you guys are actually going to be the pillar and the foundation to help us
 Basically, our mission is to provide a safe, supportive, and positive social environment where all veterans and their families with local veteran service organizations can give and receive help. Transitioning into continuing to adapt to post service life. The Veteran Drop-In Center is a non-profit organization. We are located at 1539 South 4th Street, Rockford, Illinois.
 And right now what we're trying to do is we are looking at property. Hopefully we're going to be getting some federal grants. We did buy a building through Winnebago County, I believe, at this address that I did give you. But guess what? Our boat is getting small. We are getting bigger. And I just wanted to come here tonight with a positivity to actually look you all in the eye and let you know that you know what?
 If possibly me and some of the other people over at the Venner Dropping Center need to reach out, we do need your professionalism and obviously your strength to make this happen because I do see something in Winnebago County than any other county that I've been through throughout the United States, and I believe in this county, and I believe in the people here. And honestly, if it's somebody that I need to rely on, it's going to be all you. But that's pretty much it there. November 3rd, 9 o'clock, there's a 5K run walk.
 I'll come, maybe with your family, just show your supporting faces. At least I'll know most of you. There's actually several here, well actually four here, but that really kind of pushed me to motivate me to get this going for Pat Ambrose and what she's basically volunteering for, you know, in the society.
 So I appreciate it. Thank you very much. What's the time of the walk and the location of the walk on the 3rd? I actually got it here, Mayor. It's going to be Saturday, November 3rd, 2018, 9 a.m., okay? And this is going to be presented by Eldridge Roofing. Somebody did ask me. This was through the Rockford City Park District. And let's see. I'm trying to see right here exactly where she's got it.
 Okay, here we go. It's going to be at I believe 1288 Elmwood Road, Rockford, Illinois. So Mercy Health Sports Score 1. Perfect. Thank you. And I appreciate it. Thank you so much and your time. Perfect. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Nancy Godowski. Good evening. I left you guys all alone for a while, so it's time.
 Last week, Council received a copy from National Resource Network, a mostly grant-funded organization on how to reduce the city deficit. Some suggestions I agree with and some I don't. The one I disagree with the most is outsourcing the water department.
 There are many questions that need to be answered, like who maintains the water mains? And will that be outsourced to the private company or will the city still maintain them? Since it is no longer under the auspices of the city, can the outsourced company raise water rates above legal limits because it is now private?
 If they want to replace water mains, does the city still issue bonds to pay for it? And can the private company charge more in water rates? So will the taxpayers be paying double for water service? Once for a private company and again for the government part of the water department? Can the same thing happen to the street department? Will city council still have any say?
 Also, why are we still increasing TIF districts where property taxes are separated from the general budget? While I am not opposed to the Barbara Coleman RVC campus, I have a question. Why were not all areas of RVC district included in the financing? RVC includes all of Winnebago County and cities therein, yet only Winnebago County, Rockford, and RVC are stepping up to the plate.
 All of Boone County and cities therein, parts of McHenry, Ogle, Stevenson, and DeKalb counties and cities therein are included in this district, the RVC district. Why were they not approached for financial support? Their students will also be attending this campus. This is a way we could have cut our costs since the city has a financial crisis. Also, why aren't we taking up private businesses' offers to help students?
 A while ago Domino's Pizza posted that they will thoroughly clean, remove loose material, patch potholes by using a roller to compact and seal the asphalt on their delivery routes at no expense to the city if we let them imprint their logo on the patch. Right now we just dump cold patch and tap it with a shovel.
 So I don't see anything wrong with it. I think they're using their creative financing. We are now obligated to pay for the city indoor market, the new urban equities project, and new parking decks, plus the convention center. If we are this broke, why are we doing this? Also, the grants we are getting from the state is because they are on the river or waterways, the economic development ones.
 Why can't we use these grants for repair of creeks, which are also waterways, and the Alpine Dam? It seemed that the City of Loves Park... Thank you. Oh, it's three minutes? All right. Our next item is for information only, and it is our 2019 budget discussion, which is timely. So we have Director Haggerty. It may take a second.
 Thank you everyone. I'm sure that you all read this as soon as I sent it out over the weekend. I hope that it was clear, but we'll spend a few minutes going over the presentation. I promise I won't take as long as NRN did last week. I just want to point out that this 2019 budget that we've compiled for your consideration addresses several of Council's expressed goals of keeping the property tax levy flat,
 continuing work already started and making progress towards crime reduction and investing in our neighborhoods and economic development. Ann manages to do that without a deficit for this year. The first slide here shows 2019 general fund revenue at $157.1 million. The mix here is not dramatically different than previous years.
 other than the fact that we have incorporated now, and I'll highlight that a little bit in a later slide, consolidated our sanitation fund into the general fund. So our user fees, which falls into the other category, had a fairly significant increase this year. We're not proposing anything dramatic as it relates to other taxes or user fees. And please jump in at any time if you have questions. Thank you.
 So significant budget change here is our fund consolidation. So when you think about our fund structure, we've gone over that several times in other budget and financial presentations. The city operates several separate funds and upon advice, the advice of our auditor, are beginning a process to consolidate some of those funds into the general fund as a best practice.
 One of the most glaring funds that they brought to our attention and recommended a change on was our sanitation fund. In most other municipalities in the state of Illinois, garbage collection is a function of the general fund. The expenses and the revenues associated with that fund all come in and out of the general fund. They're not accounted for in a separate fund. There's no legislative need or accounting rule that demands that we do that.
 So we are recommending the consolidation of the sanitation fund. It will now be part of our construction and development services budget, which is the place, the home of that operation anyway, as our code enforcement staff administer the contract. Yes? My understanding was that it was totally user-funded, kind of like an enterprise fund. And that's been since I've been on city council. So...
 My question, and you don't have to, I don't need to know the numbers now, how much money is in surplus in the sanitation fund, and what is the source of it? Is it user fees or...
 So the only funding mechanisms that we've had for the sanitation fund historically have been property taxes. We used to levy for about half of the cost and user fees. Over time, and as pressure on our corporate levy mounted, we reduced the –
 Reduce the property tax levy for sanitation purposes, which I believe is why it was set up as a separate fund in the first place, because of the levy. Reduce that over time and increase the user fee funding portion of the revenue mix.
 In 2000, I believe it was with the 2016 levy, we eliminated that from our levy entirely, the sanitation levy. So the function, the sanitation function, is wholly funded by user fees now. Within that user fee, we pay for residential garbage collection, we pay for street sweeping, and we pay for forestry. So those functions are all covered by that user fee. That has not changed at all.
 we're just not shifting money back and forth between funds anymore which is how we did it previously forestry always lived in the street department in the street division
 Street sweeping always lived in the street division. We were just transferring enough money out of the sanitation fund into the general fund on an annual basis to cover those expenses. We don't have to do that anymore. All of the revenue collected will reside and come into the general fund on an annual basis. All of the expenses will come out of the general fund on an annual basis.
 Guess the one thing I would want to see before we by the way Do we need to approve that or is that just done by we would it would in a strata Fiat? Yeah, it's a it's a Obviously it that's a major change for us here Which is why I'm making sure that we're doing it at the time of budget so that City Council can vote on that change as part of adoption of the budget and
 Generally, our fund structure is something that changes fairly regularly. We've got, in our accounting system, we have over 300 funds. So every time we add a new one or delete one or don't have a need for one anymore, because sometimes they're project-based, things like that, we're not coming back to city council to ask for your approval to delete that. But because this is a major operational change here from a budget organization perspective, we wanted to make sure that.
 you all had a say in this before it actually happens. But before it comes up, I do want to see what the current status is. What is the surplus? Oh, yes, I'm sorry. And what is the actual? I missed that. Coming out of that fund and going into the general fund. So we transfer approximately $3 million a year into the general fund to cover
 the street sweeping forestry the code enforcement costs to administer the contract the day-to-day enforcement of the contract provisions and then billing to cover the cost of billing because we bill for garbage they sanitation fund pays for a share of the billing costs for generating and printing those bills on a monthly basis split it with the water fund
 So that $3 million transfer then wouldn't happen anymore. That revenue would just come straight into the general fund. We don't have, as of the end of the 2017 audit, and I will send out an email to confirm this, but I believe that we only had approximately $250,000 left in the fund. And that's been accumulated over time. I can't say specifically what amount.
 exactly was the funding source that generated that surplus, obviously, because we generate surpluses on an annual basis. Most likely, though, it's user fees, additional user fees. But when we moved it, I can't remember what the shift was. We had almost an $8 million per plus over time. Right, and over several years, we have used that to either balance the budget or pay for demolition. Well, we used part of it for demolition, and when we got to the end, we took all the rest of it to balance the budget for the year.
 Right, which is why there was only about $200,000 left at the end of 2017. But I'll confirm that. And is that $200,000 going into the general fund or is that going to be held out for demolitions? We could treat that any way City Council chooses to treat it. Thank you. So if we can, we'll confirm, obviously we won't know the end of 2018, the final formal closeout amount until we complete the 2018 audit.
 So once we have that final fund balance amount, we can bring that back before city council to decide how you would choose to use those funds. Ultimately, it'll get moved to the general fund anyway, whether we appropriate that specifically for demolitions or it just stays in fund balances up to council. I guess in the other pieces, once we move it to general fund, are users still going to be responsible for 100% of those fees? In other words, are we still treating it as an enterprise fund?
 No, and it's not, Sanitation Fund was never, from a true accounting perspective, an enterprise fund. It's a special revenue fund is how we treat it. And the user fees will be calculated the same way they have in the past, and those annual user fees and any increases to them will be presented for council's consideration just like they are now.
 to say that this is what we're proposing for the monthly garbage rate, we can provide all of the justification behind that to show that that's paying for A, B, C, and D, and this is how we calculated that fee. Thank you. You're welcome. In addition to consolidating the sanitation fund, we also have a separate fund just for our audit. We have an audit fund. The only expense that comes out of it is...
 the invoices that we pay to our auditing firm, about $150,000 in activity in that whole fund every year, it's unnecessary. Again, I think the fund was established because we have a levy for audit purposes, a property tax levy, and there's no legal or accounting need to have that as a separate fund. So that cost has been incorporated into the finance department budget.
 and the non-general fund budget operating units will still contribute towards the total cost of an audit as they have in the past.
 again I just want to point out that that this consolidation adds approximately nine point four million dollars on both the expense and the revenue side as we move the cost of that garbage contract over so that nine point four million has been added to construction and development services which explains the majority of the increase that we that we see in the budget from 2018 to 2019
 with this have on the discretionary part of the general fund that 20 percent number that you used before when you add these other funds in yep
 It will increase the 20% fund balance requirement, yes. All right. And that, you know, I think that we'll reevaluate that at the end of 2018 when we know exactly where we're ending. Right now we're over our 20% requirement as of the end of 2017. Because maybe that number might go up to 25%.
 Because we're going to have new monies that we didn't have factored into that? Right. So the addition in appropriations will drive up the 20% requirement.
 by some amount. We will provide that calculation to you. And because we only really measure fund balance at one point in time at the conclusion of the audit, until we know how 2018 is going to land, it's hard to say where we're going to fall as far as compliance with that 20% requirement goes. Based on 2018 budget and 2017 actuals, we're above where we should be once we
 complete 2018 with the addition of this additional appropriation in the general fund, that overage, so to speak, the $2.7 million or so that we were over our policy, we might need that to stay in compliance. Okay, thank you. You're welcome.
 I just want to point out too that we will have additional funds. This is, it's a bit of a task for our accounting staff to consolidate these funds. So the plan was to do them a few at a time each fiscal year. So this process will continue over the next several fiscal years at the advice of our auditors.
 The other budget change driving a big part of that increase is vehicle replacements. So year two of the 2018 to 2022 plan that city council that you all approved a couple weeks ago was incorporated into the proposed budget.
 That includes $5.8 million in equipment purchases in the general fund. Those are budgeted as capital expenses in each respective department and then offset by $5.8 million in revenue from lease proceeds. We will have public works staff presenting on those replacements at the next committee meeting just to give you a little bit more insight into what's being replaced and the condition of those vehicles. I just don't understand that.
 And the last change, and this is really just to explain some of our staffing changes that we have reflected in the general fund budget in particular. Finance staffing drops three overall. Two meter readers moved to the water fund, and one purchasing technician position is eliminated thanks to some software investment that city council approved recently.
 for an electronic bid system, so we appreciate that. Police department staffing drops one. That's an IT position that was moved to the IT department for organizational efficiencies.
 Planning staffing increases four. That's land use staffing that were shifted organizationally from construction services and then engineering and CIP staffing reduces one and human services 8.95 FTEs due to the district 205 agreement So overall staffing is down 11 in total. So on the revenue side revenue increases 18.5 million
 If you factor out the sanitation fund consolidation and vehicle replacement additions, that increase is $3.4 million. You can see here the charges for services, this $19 million here is where that sanitation user fee revenue is found. So that's driving the major increase there.
 You can also see here other taxes went from 37 to 42. That reflects a full year of utility tax collections. So major elastic revenue sources, which we often use as an indication of our overall health, the health of our local economy, increased 6.3 million over 2018. And again, that includes the reflection of a full year's worth of utility tax receipts.
 But as you can see, we're projecting small increases in sales tax, use tax, a small increase in replacement tax, and then income tax benefits from the restoration of half of what the state withheld from all municipalities. That 10 percent reduction in local government distributed funds was reduced to 5 percent with the last state budget. Yes? Alderman Hervey? MS.
 new Distributive funds that are on the chopping block as far as we know Not specifically that I'm aware of but with the state I would say anything's you know, anything is possible. No scuttlebutt nobody Think nope, okay
 Alderman Beach. Thanks, Your Honor. Carrie, on the budget for 18, are we on track with actual? We're actually projecting that these are going to come in above what we budgeted, yes, and we'll have our September year-to-date report ready for you on Monday as well. All right, thank you. Yep. Alderman Herbert. One other quick one. The utility tax increases. I understand
 Never mind for 2018 we still only got a partial year. It was a half percent right half Yeah, we budgeted we budgeted six months of utility tax collections. So four and a half million in 2019 that's a full year at nine million. So for 2019 we will collect almost 14 million dollars and
 the utility tax? That utility tax number reflects not just our new gas and electric but also the existing water utility tax and our phone tax.
 So those were existing revenue sources. That's why when you see 2016 actual and 2017 actual, that's phone and water utility tax that we were already collecting. Are those broken out somewhere? I can give you the breakdown on that. I just wanted to track. Sure, sure. As we're getting this new revenue, so to speak, I think it behooves us to let the public know where it's going.
 Oh, absolutely. And we have been reporting on receipts in the monthly financial report. So that will show that on Monday. I'd like to see one, though, that's in plain English so people understand. We're not getting ahead anywhere. These pension liabilities are going to chew up every cent. So we're not getting anything new. We're not getting economic development or improved neighborhoods.
 It's allowed us to maintain service levels for 2019, essentially, and make our pension obligations.
 So, elastic revenue changes. Again, as I mentioned, half of that income tax distribution was added back. So, we've got about $750,000 in revenue there. Utility taxes, again, full year's worth of collection. Sales tax, we're projecting a 1% increase. That was historically about what we've seen and what's built into the NRN projection.
 then use tax we have a six and a quarter percent increase based on actual collections I just want to point out that we there was a Supreme Court decision that allowed the applicability of use tax to online sales transactions the state already had legislation in place to allow them to flip the switch and turn that tax on we don't know
 with any certainty whatsoever what the impact of that will be. Use tax was trending up anyway. We had surpassed our budgeted revenue amounts on actual collections for the last several years. We don't have any increase factored into the budget here because we have literally no idea what that revenue is going to be. So we will very closely monitor
 our use tax collections and report back to council. And if we have the ability to make a mid-year appropriation for that additional revenue in 2019, we will communicate that to you as quickly as we can. Alderman Beach? Has the state given us...
 Any idea of how they're going to divide that up by zip code or whatever? Because right now online, I'm paying tax. It's based on the location, your location. So a sale transaction that occurs to a destination in Rockford, that would be where the sale is.
 tax revenue ends up. So if I go onto a website and I order something online, that tax is calculated and remitted to the state based on my address, not the address of the seller.
 It's a tax on the use of the goods that are purchased based on geographic location. So that's how that's distributed. Okay, thank you. It's the same, you know, use tax applies when, let's say you go to Wisconsin and buy a car. You come back and you report it and you pay your sales tax on it, like all good tax paying citizens in this room would do. And that sales tax from that transaction would come back to the City of Rockford based on the address that you report to the state when you pay that use tax.
 So on the expense side, $156.8 million. And again, no major programmatic changes except that we have added $150,000 in demolition, in budget to demolition in our construction development services budget.
 to help pay for additional demolition activity of any nature. And then another $150,000 in contracted services to help benefit our neighborhoods. You can see here our breakdown in expenses doesn't vary dramatically from where it has been traditionally. Salaries and benefits make up more than their fair share of the total pie. Okay.
 The expenses by department, again, police and fire driving the majority of the costs here. Once you add in public works, you know, the support departments, community economic development, and then our other expenses rounded out. But still, again, the majority of our costs being public safety. Thank you.
 And on the expense side, expenses increased $18.6 million. That increases $3.4 million after factoring out, again, those significant budget changes of sanitation and vehicle replacement additions. You can see here the breakdown by department or function here. The community and economic development, that major increase here is the consolidation of the sanitation fund. Pension funding.
 So this year we have a small reprieve from the otherwise dramatic increases in pension contribution requirements because of better than anticipated returns on investment in 2017. The funds were, I believe, 10 and 11 percent in returns on their investments, well above the 7 and a half percent. Ultimately, with the pension funding, you know, the pension fund is going to be a little
 Pension funding is sort of like a three-legged stool. You've got employee contributions. You have return on investment. The city makes up the difference when those investment returns fall short. So we got a break because the investments were greater, returns were greater than anticipated. That won't last long, but we'll appreciate it this year while we can.
 And I just want to point out again, continued pressure on the city to reduce our, despite the fact that we got 10 and 11% returns in 2017, continued pressure to reduce the investment return assumption of 7.5% despite our 10-year history of hitting that investment return because of,
 Pressures at the state level pressures from the pension funds so I would anticipate that City Council will receive a levy request from our pension funds that has some reference to actuarial assumptions
 So next here we have authorized staffing. This is just general fund staffing, just for your information. Just to show the change over time, and from 2018 to 2019, we show approximately four staff reduction in the general fund. Two of those were transferred into water. One was transferred into IT, and one was just an elimination in the finance department. So this... Alderman Herby. Just NRN,
 obviously had some some recommendations and some I think sobering numbers Looking at our performance based on our staffing are we going to Take a look at that and implement some of those we will get to the NRN recommendations. Okay at the end here. I
 So this budget includes some capital investment. We've got $240,000 included, which was in 18 as well, but not expended for the replacement of the police records management system, which has been a project long coming.
 That will be the first year of an equipment lease payment under that project design. We've got repairs to existing facilities at City Hall, City Yards, Coronado, and Wellness Center, which we have traditionally funded through purchases services amounts that are charged out in rent charges in our property division. And then we have implementation, as I mentioned, of year two of the vehicle replacement plan that was approved by Council in October.
 and then $310,000 in necessary improvements to fire stations, trying to eliminate the emergency repairs that we come and bring to you during the year, proactively addressing HVAC at Station 6, asbestos abatement and roof replacement at Station 8, roof at Station 10, and some failing sidewalk outside of headquarters. So we'll get $310,000 worth of work. Alderman Herbert? Have we received the five- or ten-year...
 capital needs projections from the Coronado Theater? We have not yet, no. Okay. That's something I'm not comfortable at all, given the budget pressures that we have, with that maintenance obligation sitting there. Don't get me wrong, I love the Coronado. The people do great work. But you can't just come up to the city and all of a sudden say, oh, hi, I have a 2.4 million chiller replacement that has to be done within the next 30 days.
 This has has sat out there long enough and we need to get on that and make a demand That they provide us with their capital needs assessment within the next 60 days We can't go into our budget year with that liability hanging over our heads and no idea whatsoever I mean our staff probably
 looks at it and knows what it is but it's unfair for them to not do that that's a major requirement for any board yep and we need to to get that done well we'll be happy be certain to reach out to them and make that ask again I know it's something that they've been working on for both BMO and Coronado so but we will definitely we'll definitely get something back to you as soon as possible so I am
 oh so very pleased to report that the general fund position in this proposed budget is a positive 280 000 which we recommend um and again this is up for council's ultimately council's decision but our recommendation is utilizing those funds for commercial demolitions we believe that there's an outstanding
 significant need to to put some funds in that alderman timber thank you mayor uh i just want to say uh i'd appreciate if uh the third ward was first in line for that uh commercial demolition thank you because there is a building that's given us fits so i just wanted to stake my claim as being first in line for that thank you alderman frost second thank you alderman frost how much of this general fund position here is a result of the
 The shift of that $9.2 million from other funds into the general fund? It's not. We had corresponding expense and revenue that all transferred over together. Really, this position is caused by utility taxes, smaller than anticipated growth in our pension obligations, and better than expected performance in use tax, the restoration of the income tax, and replacement tax. One more question, Bob.
 uh does the does the lease payment proceed that you recognize as a revenue affect this number
 No, it does not. So the way, from an accounting perspective, the way we have to record an equipment lease, we record all of the purchases of it. We buy a million-dollar fire truck. We have to say, we spent a million dollars on a fire truck. And then we say, we received a million dollars in revenue from lease proceeds. They wash each other out, and then the net effect is the actual lease payment that comes the next year, principal and interest.
 Alderman Beach, I'm just going to say as you take a look at that last page And take in consideration what we know that Revenue is growing at about 1% and expenses growing at 3 just apply those percentages right here and We can relax perhaps
 and give give carrie some relief but this year being plus but just you apply those numbers one and three yeah you'll find the job that we got to do and that happens every year now so uh i'll just enjoy it for the moment yeah i would just say i'm enjoying it
 carries enjoying it for the moment very soon more than likely right after we pass this budget or even Simultaneously, we're gonna be making a number of changes or getting feedback from you and the community about making these changes Alderman Irvin's and then I'll go to Alderman Herbert question. I think thank you your honor. I
 So we're recommending to put this $280 towards demolition of commercial. On average, how much does it cost to demolish a commercial building?
 I don't know if we can say there's an average I think it depends pretty significantly on the size of the building a hazardous nature of the conditions of the site But you know, it could be anywhere from thirty to two hundred thousand dollars for an individual demolition It really just depends. Okay, because I was thinking in comparison to residential I didn't know out of
 Demo and houses then the commercials. Oh, yeah. Yes, you'll get a lot more. Oh, yeah volume wise that I mean I
 at $8,000 to $10,000 apiece on residential side. Obviously, you'd get a lot more residential property done, but we have focused a lot of resources towards residential demolition in the last several years. As Alderman Hervey mentioned, the sanitation fund money that has been spent, grant funds, along with our regular CDBG allocation that we've committed there. So I think commercial demos have had a shortage of specific funding to pay for that. And we have some...
 very much so problem properties that touch all of our departments. Alderman Hervey and then I'll go to Alderman Thunberg. With regard to Alderman Thunberg's kind of a joke aside, one of the things that we do need, it was a big joke. One of the things that we do need though for the commercial demolitions is some idea of what the priorities are.
 So I would ask that staff as quickly as possible or ask us, I mean, I have a list of mine, what those are so that we can do the same kind of fairness system that we did with the residential demolitions.
 I think it's good that we're out of those days when people would say, well, I'm not going to vote for the CIP or the budget unless you tear down or give me the street. I think it's much more transparent when we basically say, here's the buildings, here's the ranking system. So I'd ask that staff put that together for commercials as well. Yeah, and in that NRN report, it also stated to focus in certain areas as well, like have a priority, as you're saying.
 I think the fifth ward was the only one they mentioned specifically. And the building near my home, but yeah. Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. My third ward alderman. Yes. And I would just like to point out, based on my very serious comment earlier, that if the public would be, that we let the public know that many of these grants that we get
 are for residential only. So that is why it's very, I'm very optimistic to see that we are finding some funds to free up to address some of these commercial buildings that
 I think has been a misnomer with many people thinking that we're getting these grants and we can use them in any way We we would like to and just to reiterate that most of those grants if not all are coming to demo Residential only so it is hard for us to just go in and work on these commercial. Thank you. Great point Alderman frost. Thank you. I would just hope before we pick one specific item. I
 that we could have a more candid discussion about how any possible surplus from this year's budget gets used, besides just saying it's going to go to the commercial demolitions. And if anything, based upon the report we saw last week, there maybe is the idea that we could kick it and actually have a revenue positive point to move forward with, instead of being faced with the tumultuous deficit we have every year. Certainly.
 and you know as a it's a it's a recommendation obviously we have to start a conversation somewhere I know how to spend a surplus is not a conversation we're all very used to so we wanted to at least start the conversation in a direction but if City Council has other priorities we can certainly discuss that and would welcome any suggestions from Council if you would like to send those to me I would appreciate it on how we might
 other ideas on how we might spend that $280,000. So I will move on to the property tax levy if there's no other budget questions. I just want to point out too, you've got budget binders on your desks and an updated budget schedule. We'll go over that at the end. So just a refresher.
 Two factors affect property tax bill, the amount of property tax revenue or levy request, and the equalized assessed value or the property value that doles that responsibility out amongst taxpayers. All right.
 We determine the tax bill by dividing the total levy by the total EAV to calculate a rate. So when we talk about rate, we have no influence or decisions over the rate that's set by the county clerk's office once they have a final EAV based on our levy request. PTEL, or what we commonly refer to as tax caps, limits the growth of the tax levy for non-home rule taxing bodies.
 It doesn't apply to all of the city's levy. Any voter-approved debt service and a small portion of the fire pension contribution are exempt. And it does not cap individual property tax bills.
 The growth of the levy is limited by the lesser of CPI, Consumer Price Index, or 5%. CPI was 2.1%. New property this year was $2.6 million, and that's based on an October estimate of EAV from Winnebago County. We're recommending a flat property tax levy. This will be the last year that we levy. I'm sorry, 2017 levy.
 which was collected this year, was the last year that we collected for debt service. We have no more debt service component on our property tax bill, and all of the voter-approved bond issues, debt issues for capital improvements are now retired. They'll be retired in December. We'll make our final debt service payment. So the debt service portion of the levy drops off.
 Again, this is voter approved on top of our operating levy. Staff recommends that we shift that $871,500 to the operating levy, maintain a flat levy overall between debt and operations. What that does to our rate, based on the EAV that we just received in October, we dropped from $3.315 to $3.19 a year.
 0.12 or 3.7 percent decrease in the rate and that's a function of increases in the EAV. Again, this chart is just to show the relationship between EAV and the rate. As you can see,
 high EAV, and then 2012, 2011-12, that big drop. We bottomed out here in 15 and 16, saw an increase in 17 and 18, but the inverse relationship of the rate to the assessed value. And then this is our proposed levy by fund. This is the state statute language that they use around specific levies. We will levy for each of these purposes.
 And the total here you can see, and this includes library, the library levy as also remaining flat, 48.184. I'm sorry, 55.5, including the library. So the implications of that flat levy, we're leaving $1.5 million in revenue on the table that the city could otherwise collect. Okay.
 The assessment challenges have declined significantly, which is reflective of the growth and strength in the housing market here locally. And continued growth in EAV will alleviate some of that pressure on our limited rates and create some efficiencies within the levy itself. And I have included an updated budget calendar
 that lists a new timeline based on the fact that we have just provided you a balanced budget that gets the budget and property tax levy completed before Thanksgiving so that we can focus our efforts on reviewing and moving forward NRN recommendations. That is not to say that any of those NRN recommendations can't be implemented in 2019,
 But we certainly don't, I don't think anybody likes taking the budget process out through March, myself probably more than anybody else. So we'd like to get it approved and off the table so we can focus on the balancing measures that we'll need to be taking for 2020 and beyond. Thank you.
 Obviously tonight this is just information only. I know it's a lot to digest and I welcome any questions or feedback that you all have on this The plan would be that once this budget is approved the first meeting after Thanksgiving We get some sort of a baseline established with NRN and get some priority priorities established with you and then we start moving those items forward for councils consideration and
 Also, just want to, and I'll get you in one second, Alderman Beach, just want to point out on October 29th, that's a strategic planning session. We can take any items that Alderman would like. Many of you have spoken, and we've assigned through the legislative and lobbying to have Representative Cisnowski, Cabello, and Wallace here for any of your questions.
 that you may have and to hear what their priorities are. So right now, all we have on that meeting is a legislative update in the budget. And Alderman Beach, sir. Thank you. I just want to say to the council, to colleagues, to study this page over the EIV is expected to increase by 4%. And just to take a look at what's happened there, which is really affecting our tax rate positively. Okay.
 And it's just to see where we were even back in 2015 and how we've increased from there. Do you expect going forward in 2019 to be similar to that?
 Yeah, my conversations with the assessor's office, they anticipate 2% to 3% assessment growth annually for the next several years. So that's just going to really begin closing that gap? Yes. Big time. Well, thank you very much. And thank you to Rockford because things are happening here. In spite of what we have to do to fix this budget, these are some positive things that are happening. Absolutely. So thank you very much. Alderman Ross. Thank you.
 uh thank you your honor um i brought up with carrie uh before our city council meeting a little discussion from nrn uh last week where a lot of concerned citizens had contacted me about the potential of the selling of our water system and i just my hope is that we get some ideas around that specific item because
 lot of the feedback that I got from our citizens is that that's a major major asset that we have that it's something that we continue to operate and that we do such a fantastic job in operating it and and in keeping our rates low for citizens that That we just get as much information on that as possible before moving forward on any kind of discussion on that especially since
 if we were to even propose something of that sort, what would be the direct result of that? I mean, in some circumstances, you know, you're looking at some cities have seen 28% increases in their water bills. So those are some of the questions and concerns that citizens have, and my hope is that we get more out there to the public around that issue.
 Sir alderman timber. Thank you mayor then that last slide that is something that caught my eye too that maintaining and I think this Thank You director Haggerty on all your work But that first part maintaining a flat property tax levy leaves approximately one and a half million in revenue the city could otherwise collect and
 I think that goes to show the work that you're doing we're all doing in keeping money in our citizens pockets that's money that the city could have collected and spent so we are trying our best to live within our means and put more money back in our citizens pockets so thank you for that and I think that
 that point should be reiterated. Absolutely. Thank you. Any other questions? So I just want to encourage everyone, if you have questions that arise as you digest this a little bit, suggestions on how to spend our $280,000 windfall, please feel free to reach out. I'm in the office all week and we'd be happy to answer your questions. We will have a budget committee report ready on Monday.
 along with the initial property tax levy committee reports as well. So we'll have a general presentation on the levy.
 and a committee report ready if you all are ready to adopt this budget. We'd certainly invite more discussion, as Mayor said, at the strategic planning session on the 29th. And if you have concerns about the timeline that we've put forward, let me know. I know it's aggressive, but I think that we've got hard work not associated with the 2019 budget, but going forward. So I'd like to get this...
 done and over with so we can focus on the real hard work that needs to be done alderman hervey um one of the um first of all i'm not sure i'm going to know what to do with myself since you know come on we don't have to start looking for money for the next 10 weeks and i'm not sure what to do with that but um one of the i don't know if it was a an in our in suggestion or just one generally
 We talked about for years and alderman beach has certainly Ridden this one out there planning our budgets nrn gave us a seven year Start i'm assuming we're going to be doing a rolling seven year or a rolling five There were a couple of comments that made it sound as though. Okay, here's your seven years. So do it for your seven years
 Yeah. And then drop it. Are we going to be adding on and projecting out? Absolutely. So, and that's one of the reasons why I'm anxious to get the 19 budget approved, because once that's approved, we can, we load that into the software that they left us with. And that updates everything moving forward. We're already in a slightly better position than what they originally projected for 2019. They had projected a few hundred thousand dollars deficit.
 and we're not there, obviously. So I think we've got some revenue that's performing a little bit better than they primarily, they had at least initially estimated. So I'd like to get that in there at the time. We'll present once we get that refreshed. All right.
 will present to you here's the next five years as we go into these discussions with nrn the goal obviously would be to present that moving forward because of the timing and the fact that they just gave their presentation next year we'll give that to you at the front end okay this is our five years right and the policy that council approved requires that you take action today whether it means reductions or new revenues today
 that's all up in the air, but you would take action today to balance five years out. So we want to make sure we stay in compliance with that policy.
 I would just add to your credit and staff's credit, we've already started on a number of these recommendations. The vehicle maintenance that'll be coming forward, the vacant lot registry that we're working on and close to presenting, and then also just recently the increase in the health insurance are just a couple of the ones that were in that report that we needed to recommend moving forward and some we're already moving forward with.
 with regard to that the increases i'm still asking that we look at a i'm not sure what you call it graduated rate based on income again two thousand dollars a year doesn't sound like a lot unless you only make twenty four thousand a year so it's it's it's regressive and when i looked at
 the increases, we got our insurance information in the mail today. There's a big difference when that hits high five and six figure incomes as opposed to low five figure incomes or even four figures for some people.
 Yeah, it's just health care is just one of those things where I don't want people who work for the city of Rockford making a choice between paying for their children's medicine and putting food on the table and If you look at those rates the percentage of income that it's going to hit for lower income full-time working people is a lot different than it is for a
 uh management staff so i i don't want to beat a dead horse but i do want to ask that we put some numbers together to see a graduated insurance premium and out-of-pocket expense level even if it means a higher rate on people of of higher incomes
 So we are having both HR and our legal staff to find out if we can even legally do that. And I would say to your example, one of the things I think we've all been cautious of, that dining room table conversation of having City of Rockford employees wondering how they're going to afford this increase in health insurance. To me, that's a difficult conversation, and I don't want to see anyone have that conversation. But I think overall, one of our biggest things that we've talked about is
 At least they're having that conversation as opposed to I don't have a job And I think for many of us just making sure that we have as men have the employees that we have in that NRN report It highlighted that our non public safety We have one-third less than any other of our comparable community so
 I understand the conversation and it's certainly one that we have our legal and HR after last week's comments reviewing. I do too, but one of the things that I'm always afraid of is that, you know, 80% of our budget we don't control. That's just a fact, whether people like it or not. So there's a point at which it becomes oppressive for that small percent that we do.
 And I know there's some ERISA considerations. You can't discriminate within classes. I have to leave this to Ms. Hunter. I've been away from it for 30 years, thank goodness. But I know there are some constraints, but I also know that there are ways that you can take that, some of that burden off those who can least afford it. Thank you. Alderman Nervins.
 So, thank you, Your Honor. You know, we were talking recommendation for that 240. If I could just throw out a recommendation, you know, that 240,000 divided by the 14 alderman here, that's 20,000 per ward. And if you take about 10,000 to demo a house, that's two houses each ward.
 I would recommend going going that way and me personally, you know that that extra surplus It had to be touching everybody's word and wouldn't be at all my word didn't get to see any of that funds You know, I think that'll just resolve a lot of that Thank you other comments. All right. Thank you all for your time next up to new committee reports It does not look like we have a planning and development committee report. So alderman Shirely for code and regulation. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have an amendment I want to read in for Roman numeral B1, if I could. So I move to amend the committee report Roman numeral 6B item 1 to reflect sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval. Of a variation to remove access off of Westminster Drive and place access on Hickory Lane in an R1 single family zoning district at 3475 Westminster Drive.
 Subject to amended conditions as follow number one submittal of a site plan is conditioned for the driveway permit illustrating location of one driveway access from Hickory Lane for staff review and approval. Number 2, removal of any construction debris from the site and elimination of any erosion control issues along the West property line.
 Number three, as part of the construction of the new driveway, relocate the drain tile so that it does not unnaturally direct water from the downspouts to the neighboring property owner to the west. Number four, construct the new drive and demo the existing drive by July 1, 2019.
 And number five, once the drive access to Westminster is eliminated prior to July 1, 2019, restore said area to topsoil and grass seed. So I place that item as amended up for passage, Your Honor, on item number one. We have a motion. Do we have a second for the amendment?
 So we have a motion and a second for an amendment item b1 all those uh In favor of approving the amendment before us for item b1 say aye Those opposed. All right I'll move on to item number committee recommends approving the honorary street name change for 18th street from reed avenue to persian avenue to bates boulevard in honor of ricky bates
 Number three committee recommends approval of a tentative PUD plat of loves rock Rockford subdivision the location of the subject property is 46 X X South Main Street and
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the vacation request for a portion of the Loomis Street Highway Rail crossing with Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad Company. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the stipulated agreement between the Illinois Commerce Commission, Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad Company, the City of Rockford and Illinois Department of Transportation for the closure of Loomis Street Highway Rail grade crossing.
 Number six the committee recommends approval of the revisions to chapter 5 article 3 division 5 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances massage of Establishments and number 7 proposed contract between the city of Rockford Police Department and the Winnebago County Health Department For a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances for all of these items your honor and I place item 2 through 7 up for passage
 We have items 1 through 7. 1 through 7, I'm sorry. Just 1 being the amended item. Yes. Any questions on items 1 through 7? Alderman Hervey. I missed the amendments to item 1. Did that include a provision that they immediately stop diverting the water onto the neighbor's lot?
 Was it just I'll read the condition again number three as part of the construction of the new driveway relocate the drain tile so that it does not Unnaturally direct water from the downspouts to the neighboring property owner to the west. There's no time allotted to that condition see this is just me if somebody's doing something that obnoxious and
 I wouldn't get I wouldn't give them the permit. I think that's something that they should be direct to do immediately You don't just look at your neighbor and say I'll move it when I'm done with my my driveway Well, I believe the discussion was that once they file for a driveway permit that has to be completed It's what my understanding was talking to the legal representative
 Okay, I just don't want to get to the point where we're saying people we're gonna let we're gonna give somebody a Special permission to do something but in the meantime they can be pretty darn bad neighbor You know messing up their yard causing erosion or whatever That's it. Okay alderman to work. Thank you mayor. My understanding of this is that the the
 uh that will be rectified when the during the time that the driveway is being completed uh it's a it's a hand-in-hand project uh there also is a a setback of the residential property i guess you could say a a bear a wooded lot that's between that residence and the other residence that is being
 could be affected by this there is a a wooded lot between the two residents also so is my understanding that yes it is it will take place but to do that before then you have before the driveway takes place they would do it but then have to rip it up
 During the driveway construction, so it's going to be completed simultaneously to my understanding With it with the construction of the driveway Thank You alderman frost. Yeah, I don't think just Alderman Hervey's point. I don't think there's any information that Currently there is a problem with this because it indicates in just my reading of this as part of the construction of the new driveway So it's probably the construction of the new driveway
 that's going to alter the unnatural accumulation of water and and result in the drain tile having to be removed i don't think there are i i'm speculating but i don't think the zba would have allowed for uh a code violation to to concurrently run right now with the land so i don't think it's quite as alderman hurley sees it that's why thank you director franzen
 There was an existing complaint from the neighbor of the drainage, and it's correct that it will be corrected during the drive. I'll also acknowledge that my staff, Nelson, and I believe Attorney Flores have met with the neighbor to describe how that process will go, and it went well.
 The neighbor was okay with waiting until the construction takes place? The neighbor was assured of what that timeline would be and the process would be for the correction. Thank you. Any further discussion on any of the seven items before us? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 canones shirely 11 eyes all items passed next up we have finance and personnel committee alderman hervey saying that is what there is a comment alderman hervey for finance and personnel oh i'm sorry your honor thank you this is for um roman numeral six c items one through three
 Item number 1 is a committee report or is recommending committee report recommending approval of vouchers in the amount of $5,071,435.03 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting of October 9th, 2018.
 Number two is committee report recommending approval of the city-state agreement between the city of Rockford and the state of Illinois for the u.s. 20 bypass over Illinois to interchange That's for the reconstruction for a total amount of eighty eight thousand five hundred thirty four dollars funding sources motor fuel tax and item number three is the committee recommending approval of the acceptance of the offer for the purchase and sale of a city-owned vacant lot
 located at 1131 Andrew Street for the amount of $1,000 from Joseph Whitech doing business as Zermavar LLC. Property was listed through the Multiple Listing Service, the legal directors to prepare the appropriate ordinances for items two and three. Thank you. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion? No.
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Chiarelli. 11 ayes. Those items pass. Next up, we have officers' reports. Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just wanted to comment earlier on the proclamation from the Rotary Club about
 uh the polio issue that that uh that they've been working on for a number of years uh my mother uh in the early 1950s uh suffered from polio and was hit with the epidemic when it reached rockford as was her younger brother and uh this was clearly an epidemic that reached thousands of people nationwide and caused the death of of thousands as well and it wasn't until the i think the mid 50s when two physicians
 discovered that a vaccination could cure it that led to them winning a Nobel Prize. And it's wonderful that because of that vaccination that people and children today, literally throughout the entire world, no longer suffer from polio as a result of the vaccination. So I do commend the Rotary for continuing to have their goal of having zero outcomes with that. Thank you. Thank you. Other reports? Alderman Toomber?
 Thank you, Mayor. I want to give a hats off to our law enforcement. They have been doing a spectacular job on a couple issues within the third ward.
 And I just got an email from a constituent that I just wanted to read just a portion to that regarding a hot spot that we've been hitting on. And they just noticed that today there were officers on hand in the way they all jumped into action. I'm quoting, this is an update to let you know that we're all behind you and the Rockford Police 100%.
 I have seen on a number of occasions how the men and women of the Rockford police jump into action to help make Our world a little safer every day And uh, thank you. Thank you the officers and and everything you do chief That's greatly appreciated and I know that you may not hear it enough And uh, so anytime us aldermen get accolades uh, I I hope that we pass those along in addition the um,
 The Ice Hogs kicked off the season, and as you can see, some of our aldermen are in full gear, ready to kick off the season. The Ice Hogs are a great asset to our community and look forward to a great, great season to come, and we'll see you at the games. Lastly, I'd like to give a hats off to my nephew, Lael. I don't know if Alderman Logeman had anything to do with this over at his education at Auburn.
 maybe of course he was recognized at the Rockford School District meeting as one of four in the in the school system here in Rockford of being a National Merit Honor semi-finalist that's given to less than 1% of students in the country that take the SAT exam so I'd like to say hats off to my nephew whale if you're watching and
 I know Alderman Chiarelli has asked where I fit in on that intelligence heredity. We're all wondering about it. It must have skipped me somewhere. I'll admit it. I'll admit it. I'll admit it, Alderman Chiarelli. It was that I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
 I'm not on that tree of the hereditary. Yeah, so thank you. Thank you. That's quite an accomplishment. Alderman Rosen. I'll be real quick. Just as we're changing seasons and going into fall, I get a lot of calls from residents about leaves, and then we get into snow removal, but one of the ways that we can kind of,
 be proactive and our wards is you know taking care of the leaves that fall in your yard but also you know the storm drains are a huge issue so if if residents live next to a storm drain are able to clean it out and get those leaves out of there really helps reduce those flooding risks in the springtime and also when we get a lot of snow and snow melt so um
 Please be aware of those kind of issues if you live next to one if you can pick up those leaves or or You know, you know get them in a bag properly bag them and put them out for a collection That's widely appreciated from the city. Great other comments. See no we'll move on The appointments remain laid over next up. We have motions and resolutions and alderman rose to you for planning and development We have one resolution
 calling a public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with approval of a redevelopment plan and Project for and the designation of South Main Rock Street Coleman village redevelopment project area. Thank you. Or is there any questions or discussion seeing none clerk? Will you please call the roll? jerky logan timber frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones
 Chiarelli 11 eyes item passes next up. We have finance and personnel alderman her. Thank you, Your Honor. We have six items
 The first is an award of an RFP for financial advisory services. This is RFP number 818-FIN-079 to Speer Financial, Inc. of Chicago in the amount of $5,000 plus ¼ of 1% of municipal securities issued in excess of $1 million.
 up to 5 million and one-tenth of 1% of any securities issued in excess of 5 million. Funding sources bond sale proceeds. Number two is an award of an engineering agreement for Keith Creek Stabilization Phase 1 to Willett Hoffman and Associates Incorporated of Rockford in the amount of $119,236.30. The funding source is sales tax.
 Item 3 is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for the U.S. Bypass 20 over Illinois 2 interchange reconstruction in the amount of $100,000 requires City Council authorization for the use of motor fuel tax funds
 Item four is an award of bid for the 20th Street under Pratt underpass resurfacing to William Charles construction of Loess Park in the amount of fifty two thousand one hundred fifty four dollars and fifty seven cents The funding source is ten percent sales tax and the state of Illinois grade crossing protection funds 90% item five is an award of the joint purchasing bid. This is for new ambulances to fire services Inc and
 um joint purchasing big was issued by the houston galvis and perching cooperative and awarded to fire service inc the total contract of 564 976 dollars includes two ambulances plus necessary equipment for an individual cost of 282 488 dollars
 Item 6 is an award of an RFP for Bond Underwriting Services to Stifle Nicholas, Company of St. Louis, Missouri for fee services of $4 per $1,000
 of par value plus an estimated $10,117 in expenses. The total is approximately $96,117 and the funding source is bond proceeds. Those items all up for passage. Thank you. We have six items before us. Is there any discussion on the six items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frans. Aye.
 I, Alderman Shirelli. Irby? Irvins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Aye. Quinones? Shirelli? Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 11 ayes. Item number 6, 10 ayes, 1 abstain. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have new business and for planning and development. Alderman Rose? No. There's nothing. No? No. OK. My apologies. Next up, we have code and regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have an ordinance approving a variation to remove access off of Westminster Drive and place access on Hickory Lane in our one single family zoning district at 3475 Westminster Drive. Subject to the conditions one through five that we just amended earlier. Number two is an ordinance approving an honorary street name change for 18th Street from Reed Avenue to Pershing Avenue.
 To Bates Boulevard in honor of Ricky Bates. Number three is an ordinance approving the vacation request for a portion of Loomis Street Highway Rail Crossing with Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad Company.
 Number four is an ordinance approving the stipulated agreement between the Illinois Commerce Commission the Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad Company the City of Rockford and the Illinois Department of Transportation For the closure of the Loomis Street highway rail grade crossing number five an ordinance approving the revisions chapter 5 article 3 division 5 of the City of Rockford code of ordinances massage establishments and number six is an ordinance approving the proposed contract to
 Between the city of Rockford Police Department and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks Place those six ordinances up for passage your honor. Thank you alderman Shirely We have six items before us any discussion seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll Durkee? logan frost Herving Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach
 Quinones? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent. Those items passed. Next up we have Finance and Personnel, Alderman Herder. I have two items under
 Letter C, first is an ordinance approving the city-state agreement between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for the U.S. Bypass 20 over Illinois 2 interchange reconstruction for a total amount of $88,534. Funding sources, motor fuel tax.
 And item two, an ordinance approving the offer for purchase and sale of a city-owned lot, vacant lot, located at 1131 Andrew Street for the amount of $1,000 from Joseph Whitech doing business as Zermavar LLC. The property was listed through the multiple listing service. Those two items would place up for passage. Thank you. So we have two items before us. I need discussion on the two items. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Thank you.
 Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent.
 So at this time we'd normally adjourn, but Alderman Chiarelli has some exciting news for us. Alderman Thunberg was so kind to say that he would go into closed session for all of us and just report back to us later. But I don't think that's going to apply tonight. Anyway, I have a move to convene in the closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters, Your Honor. So we have a motion and a second. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Thunberg. Thunberg.
 Frost, Herbie, Irvins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Chiarelli. 11-9. All right, we will be back briefly.