Good evening. We will call to order the City of Radford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, October 16th, 2023. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logaman. Toomberg. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Bailey. Bonney. Bonney. Eleven present. Excellent. We also have Alderman Ponte present as well. Thank you. Thank you. This evening, we have an invocation by Chaplain Roy Whitmore. Father God, we thank you, Lord, for the gathering of this council, Lord. Lord, we ask your blessing to be upon us on today. It was the wisdom that we need to take care of the city business and bless our officials, and we give you praise and glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Congratulations to the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands in justice. Thank you, Chaplain. Next, we've already done roll calls, so we will next go into petitions and communications. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a resolution initiating a proposed text amendment to the City of Rockford Zoning Ordinance, Article 90, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel lot located at 1409 South 6th Street, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. 3. A memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the authorization to place for sale. The City owns parcel located at 421 College Avenue, referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. 4. The Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on October 17, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 23, 2023, referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. 5. Number five, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on October 17, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on October 23, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Sarah Lee's Housing and Program Manager regarding the Community and Economic Development Department seeking approval to execute a $125,000 grant agreement with IDAB for a strong community's program and refer to finance and personnel. Number two is also a memorandum from Sarah Lee's regarding the sale of city-owned property as part of the city's Moda-Owned program. The property address is 3915 Delaware Street and it will also refer to finance and personnel. THANK YOU, ALDERMAN CROSS. NEXT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE INTO PUBLIC SPEAKERS. WE HAVE THREE PUBLIC SPEAKERS THIS EVENING. I WANT TO REMIND OUR PUBLIC SPEAKERS THAT THERE'S A MICROPHONE ON THE BACK LEFT AS WELL AS THE BACK RIGHT OF COUNCIL CHAMBERS. YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE CITY COUNCIL. YOU'LL HEAR AN ALARM BELL GO OFF AND I ASK THAT YOU CLOSE YOUR COMMENTS AT THAT TIME. OUR FIRST PUBLIC SPEAKER THIS EVENING IS LARRY WASHINGTON. FIRST OF ALL, I THINK WE SHOULD CANCEL THAT PRAYER BECAUSE WE KNOW IT'S JUST GOING TO BE BUSINESS AS USUAL TOMORROW. Alright, so I'm going to start off with Alderman Tarina, who's got all this business going on with her committees. But this is what her ward looks like. These are buckling sidewalks. Several of those in the fifth ward. Telephone pole right here with weeds growing. Can't even see the gutter. Cannot even see the gutter. This is a stop sign. The weeds are higher than the stop sign. Okay. We are higher than the stop sign. This is all in the fifth ward. I drove through the mayor's ward. I don't see this in the mayor's ward. I don't see this in the mayor's ward. So again, I'm gonna start out with this customer complaint again, because she says it as good as anybody can say it. The way R&D treats people is disgraceful. The drivers are supposed to be there to serve the community and offer good customer service, but they don't. The drivers bring reports into the city of Rockford, the bus company, and the service. They give needs major improvement. So that's why I'm asking. Well, I'm not. I'm calling for the mayor's resignation again because part of his job duties is the welfare of the people, which that includes the people that ride the bus. Obviously, he don't. Let me tell you something about Mr. Mike's study. He told me once. He don't care if them passengers hate him. This is the executive director of RMTD saying this. The mayor, he went to a Jesuit college. That college teaches those students you're supposed to do the right thing. He is not doing the right thing. If he was doing the right thing, Mike Stubbe would be out of there. That lying safety manager, Judson McGovern would be out of there. Dan Inglis would be out of there. Cedric Keaton would be out of there amongst some supervisors, okay? I've heard, I've given, you know, all the complaints of the lying that's going on down there with the guards and management. From their own passengers, from their own employees, they say there is lying in management from the bottom to the top. It's coming from their own employees. This is absolutely ridiculous. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Ephesians, the fifth chapter, the 25th verse, it says, Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. What I want to speak about tonight, women represent strength and resilience. Yes. Each year, Africans celebrate the strength and resilience of women and their contribution to society and country. This year, the month long tribute to the generation of African women who struggle laid the foundation for empowering women and achieving gender equality. South Africans recent National Women's Day, which annually pays tribute to all African women, forms part of South Africans Women's Month, which provides an opportunity to pay tribute to the generations of women who struggled, laid the foundation for the progress made in empowering women and achieving gender equality. The 1956 protests. saw members of the Federation of South African Women rally against the apartheid government. The protests were supported by mothers, daughters, sisters, and friends who decided enough was enough and came together to initiate change. According to International Women's Day organizers, African women across the continent have a history of revolutionary struggle. According to many public ports. In the West African country of Nigeria, under Great Britain's colonial rule, there occurred what colonial historians call the ABA, Women's Riot of 1929. But it should be termed the ABA Women's Rebellion. In Liberia, after African women used an organized sex strike to end civil war for more than a decade. Liberians have been struggling to recover from a civil war. The 2008 documentary, Pray the Devil Back to Hell, Depends on the extraordinary story of a group of West African women who banded together to end their nation's second bloody civil war. The women said the reason why they stood up, because the men was weak. They got tired of being walk-on physically. They got tired of being walk-on psychologically. They got tired of being walk-on emotionally. They got tired of being walk-on spiritually. They said they had two options. to come to death or fight back. And they decided to fight back. I want to thank God for all women. I also want to tell my brother-in-law, John, a Marine Vietnam veteran like me, and Mr. Rondell Ross, who works downstairs, a security guard. But it's for a long time. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday to my friends. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, my good friend. And God bless you and thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Next, our public speaker is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois, but mainly those watching on TV that's watching from the city. I really appreciate the fact that we had two parents came up to me. And they have their sons is locked up in jail. Instead of putting the money on their book, they said give it to Brother John because he's looking out for our kids. So far we need to raise the van cost $30,000. We need to raise $5,000. Right now we at $36,000. on paper but if once the mayor I mean once the chairman they challenged the mayor fee and also the board the Winnebago County Board put their 500 in we'd be at we'd be at 43 but what I want and also received the a check in the mail from an anonymous donor. But this weekend, I want to recognize that we took the kids to the fire department and we had, I'd say, 14 kids. The fire department took them into a room where they talked to them, the investigator talked to them about safety, about fire safety, about the plugs, about the stove, about the microwave. Our kids did not know that. And to take them there for them to get an education is very enlightening. And I also want to thank the police department. It was ten years ago when me and the police built up a relationship. In fairgrounds, they used to have a whole lot of shoes. a whole lot of violence. And when the Farragut kids was fighting neighborhood kids, I would show up and what have you. And Officer Paschall, back then, was charging Carter. She was a cop. So I can read, they would allow me to go in, I'd grab 9, 10 of them kids, put them in my van and carry on. They said, good brother John, like to equalize. I would take off with them in my van. But guess what, Mayor, today I want to bring to your attention. You know, Donald Trump not only have he infiltrated the military, the police department, the judicial department, but we also got folks, you know, at the library. They said to librarians who tried to control my voice, they just got the job there, they said they're going to call the mayor on Brother John because he's driving 14 kids in the van. They also said they're going to call the superintendent of the school. I'm like, please call the mayor and call the superintendent of the school because it ain't like everybody don't know what I'm doing. Yes, I need a school bus. So please call them there, call the chief of police, and call the superintendent of school, which one of the directors that work at the library informed me that that was what they're going to be doing. So I look forward to them calling you and we're here because there's not nothing new. Everybody in this room knows. And even when we went this weekend with the 14 kids, I'm taking the fifth again, with the 14 kids, went to the fire department and we're here, I'm going to move as many kids as possible. Thank you. We're going to be good to go. I have a church band and I have my personal band. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. Next we're going to go to new committee reports and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, your honor. We have one item tonight and item number one is committee recommends approval of the adoption of an ordinance to terminate the South Rockford Tax Incentive Financing TIF district. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. That would be helpful, wouldn't it? Okay. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins I Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Bailey Bonnie 13 eyes thank you next we'll go to code and regulation committee older woman Trina thank you your honor I have two items I number one the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval of a variation to allow an attached deck and above ground pool to encroach into the front yard setback along Pepper Drive variation to reduce the required front yard setback along pepper drive from 33 feet to 24 feet for an attached deck variation to reduce the required front yard setback along pepper drive from 33 feet to 27 feet for an above-ground pool in A variation to reduce the required yard setback from 6 feet to 4 feet for an above-ground pool and an r1 single family residential zoning district at 33 64 Ramblewood Lane Mandy Minnick The applicant subject to amended conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance And number two the committee recommends approval of the amendments to chapter 17 Article 3 section 17 dash 43 rental registry the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on these two items alderman Rose? Did you have an amendment to one of these items? I For that, I think the last item. Item two. Yes. I move to amend the committee report for section 17-43, the rental registry, as follows. Strike the last sentence of paragraph one of section 17-43 and replace it with the following sentence. The fee for registering on the rental registry shall be set forth in the City of Rockford fee schedule. Second. We have a motion and a second on the amendment for item B-2. Is there any discussion on that amendment? Alderman Durkee? What is the fee? Right now, there is no fee. Thanks. Right now, we have Alderman Bonney. But this change would permit there to be one in the future, where without the amendment, there wouldn't be one unless council enacted it at a later date. You are, yes. There's no fee now. It'll go to under, if I understand it correctly, it'll go to the fee schedule where it could be a zero fee or any fee that the majority of council approves. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll simply on the amendment by Alderman Rose? Durkee. No. Logoman. Toomer. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios Bailey Bonnie no 11 eyes to nose okay, so now we have two items before us with item two being amended Is there any discussion on those two items clerk? Will you please call the roll on the two items? turkey on both Logoman timber frost Serena fronty Wilkins I Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Bailey, Bonnie. Item number 113, ayes. Item number 212, ayes. 1 no. Thank you. Next we're going to go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Alderman Beach. I'm so sorry to interrupt you. To get clarification here, no fee can be... Given without the approval this council is that correct? That's correct And that approval by my understanding will come through when you vote yes or no on the fee schedule, right? Thank you, sir. Thank you going back now we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and alderman frost number one the committee recommends approval vouchers the amount of eleven million four hundred thousand three hundred thirty eight dollars and seventy seven cents as approved the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on October 10th 2023 number two the committee recommends approval of the Illinois mutual aid box alarm system agreement the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends authorizing The city to utilize funds from the public water supply loan program at the IEPA and application of loan for future phases, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these three matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Council, we've got three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Bonnie. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next we're going to go to unfinished business. And we have nothing under planning and development. So we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarino. Thank you. The committee recommends approval of a special use permit for a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 3225 Halsted Road 3600 Halsted Road Rock Valley Solar is the applicant thus reversing the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you I Director Myers so mr. Mayor this came out of committee as a recommendation for approval which was reversal of the ZBA Prior to a vote on this item we would need to amend the committee report to both adopt findings of fact for approval, but then also Adopt conditions of approvals as well before it's voted on Correct, okay Would an older woman, Trina, by chance have those documents that she could make an amendment for each of those? I do. And I believe, just so I'm clear, sorry to cut you off, you want them voted on separately? Separately, yep. Okay. So I move to adopt the findings of fact to reflect approval of a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in R1 single family residential zoning district at 3225 Halsted Road. The finding of facts is as follows. The finding of fact for approval of a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an R1 single family residential zoning district located at 3225 Halsted Road. approval of the special use permit is based upon the following findings the establishment maintenance or operation of the special use permit will not be detrimental to the Will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health safety morals comfort or general welfare of the community. I The special use permit will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity of the purposes already permitted and will not substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood. The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal or orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses permitted in the R1 district. Adequate utilities access roads drainage and or necessary facilities have been are being or will be provided Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or egress So designed as to minimize traffic congestion congestion in the public streets and the special use does conform to the applicable Regulations of our one district in which it is located. Okay, so we have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Okay? Those in favor say aye. All right those opposed excellent other woman Trina would you yes? They have one more I'd like to make a motion to add the following conditions of approval Sorry, yes meet all applicable building and fire codes submittal of building permits for staff's review and approval access roads shall be hard surface asphalt or concrete submittal of a landscaping plan that shows a type b buffer for areas showing screening on the site plan with plant species and sizes for staff's review and approval submittal of elevations and dimensions of the solar panels for staffs review and approval submittal offense permit for staff review and approval setbacks for the freestanding solar collectors shall comply with standards as detailed in section 23 dash 004 dash e of the zoning ordinance and Freestanding solar collector panels adjacent to residential districts are subject to installation of a type B buffer, including a site obscurity fence, the height of which will be determined by the zoning officer as detailed in section 55-001-D and in compliance with the National Electrical Code. Decommissioning of the solar farm shall comply with a proposed decommissioning plan approved by staff. Excellent so we have a motion Is there a second? We have a motion we have a second or any discussion no discussion all those in favor say aye aye Those opposed Thank You attorney Myers. Are we allowed to proceed now? Yep, excellent We have one item before us. It's been amended twice. Is there any discussion on that one item clerk? Could you please call the roll? Logoman timber cross Terina Prenti Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Bailey Bonnie 12 eyes 1 no excellent. Thank you next up We have officers reports any council members have reports alderman Bonnie. Thank you mayor I just wanted to take a minute to thank director Franz and and Chief Pankow For the work that was done on the comprehensive inspection out at the Versailles apartments Which I had shared with the council the condition of those several weeks ago and that produced Dozens of building and fire safety violations and by my count more than 30 different sections of our codes and From that, we then had a meeting with about 25 of the residents at the District 3 police station, the community room, which the mayor attended. I would also like to thank the mayor for participating in that and also the attorney for the California owner of the property. Based on those inspections, there's a series of rolling deadlines That the owner is going to need to meet some of them I think have already occurred and They continue through the end of the year with the exception of one in March Regarding the swimming pool that has been a you know stagnant water Receptacle for several years and And I just, again, I really want to thank everybody on behalf of the tenants because the ones that, they've reached out to me and they are very grateful. The attention that was provided and the response that's been provided. And they, you know, it's just, I can't express enough how much they appreciated the time and attention that's been paid to this issue. Thank you. Thank you, uh alderman hoffman then alderman wilkins. Thank you mayor. I just want to say a really big thanks to representative west he came and uh had a Walk path put in at harman park. It's lighted It has exercise stations and now all I have to do is get down there. It's only a block away He also took away all my excuses because someone from the Park District explained that it will be kept plowed and salted in the winter. So... There we are. I will have a nice, wonderful walk path only one block away, and I'm really grateful. And people started walking on it before it was ever finished. It was really something to see, bike riding, dog walking, everything. It brought the neighborhood out, joining together again. So we're grateful. Thank you. Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you. THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. THIS SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21ST FROM 630 TO 10 P.M., INTERNATIONALLY ACCLAIMED DIRECTOR YASH MUSAVI WILL BE HAVING A RED CARPET PREMIERE OF HIS MUSIC VISUAL ALBUM, PRELUDE TO LIFE AT ROCKFORD'S NORTHWALL THEATER. YOU ALL, ALL OF COUNCIL WILL BE GETTING AN INVITE TO THAT. IT IS FREE TO THE PUBLIC WITH THE OPTION OF VIP PURCHASES AS WELL. THANK YOU. Thank you Last week on Thursday I had a chance to visit the Rockford firefighters training facility out on West 8th Street and see the new cadets. I saw the classroom They weren't in the classroom. They were they were outside and the dreary cold weather and working on numerous drills and being taught by our own firefighters. And it was quite an honor to see the work and dedication both that our firefighters put into the training of the new cadets and to see the diligence of the cadets. So it was a great opportunity. So thanks, Chief, for inviting me out there, and it was really a great, great opportunity. Thank you alderman timber Thank You mayor. I would like to say thank you to director Saunders and also Jessica Anderson from neighborhood standards for allowing me to have them on speed dial for a number of a host of issues over the third Ward in the last few weeks and Thank you very much for prompt attention to those matters and there are plenty of thanks. Thank you other reports. I ALTER WOMAN PRUNTI. THANK YOU. JUST WANTED TO, THE DIRECTOR SONDERS AND HIS STAFF AND THE FOLKS WHO HAVE BEEN WORKING ON BROOK ROAD, IT IS JUST AN AMAZING TRANSFORMATION THAT IS TAKING PLACE IN THE SIXTH WARD ALONG WITH SOME OF THE OTHER TRANSFORMATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN TAKING PLACE. IT IS JUST REALLY NOTICEABLE. Sandy Hollow 9th Street just also finished the area around Jamestown so I thank you all it's looking great apologize for driving on it while you were working on it but thank you I'm also wanted to I'd like to thank Sarah Lays, Carl Franzen, Nick Myers for coming to the Sixth Ward meeting on Thursday and allowing constituents to hear and share their thoughts. share their hear from you all and as well as share um their ideas i appreciate uh you coming i appreciate um brook road united methodist church for um hosting i think that it's important um and i'm glad that the community or the community had a chance to engage and i hope that um they share some insights that you will find useful so thank you for coming and um Appreciate it. Thank you other reports. Thank you next up. We have appointments laid over appointment of Nastassja Stacey Brown to the Rockford area venues and entertainment board for a term expiring June 2025 this appointment fills a vacancy created by the resignation of Marticia Brown Pursuant to rule 18 this appointment is now up for passage. Is there any discussion alderman Durkee? Thank you your honor Just a couple of comments I know I voted against this individual the first time around because of some questions on her CV, which was inaccurate. And I laud you for accepting responsibility for it not being an accurate CV. But as much as you wanted to assume responsibility for that, that's not in your purview. It really should have been the candidate. The candidate, when you read her CV, actually states somewhere in there that she worked in job coaching and something at Rasmussen College. So I don't know what's happening with this individual, especially with the controversy. Being appointed, just some of the aldermen don't know this, being appointed is not new to me. My first gig as an alderman, I was appointed. I got all the aldermen my CD it was accurate I called all the old as a candidate and I talked with them about the only one that would remember that is Frank Beach Alderman Beach You guys weren't here then but um, I I actually tend to take some of these nominees seriously. I do read their CDs I was for instance, you know in a prior candidate We had somebody go on the pension board who had no experience with pensions I you know made that point, we have one less person on that board who can hold the state accountable and watch our pension funds objectively. So the RAVE board is an organizational board. It's a management board. There's a number of things that go on with that. And this candidate may be a nice person, but just this whole – Turmoil with her appointment just hasn't been settled the fact that she left it out of her resume that she was in You know has some exposure the entertaining Entertainment industry is still confusing to me. I mean, why would you do that? If this is your forte that speaks to the candidate I guess some clarity even on her part by emailing or something the council. He just didn't hear anything. I So, regretfully, I'm still opposed to this candidate. I do know that she can be involved in RAVE in any capacity. I mean, she's still welcome, I guess, to work with them. Thank you, Your Honor. Thanks. Other comments? Alderman Rose? Having worked in... These types of issues where you know a resume maybe didn't have something or it had something else I just I think it is fair to be cognizant of a few things as number one is, you know, uh for different Jobs people have different resumes, right? She definitely has the experience um Definitely brings with her a wealth of knowledge in the performance world, which I think is probably more Valuable than a lot of the other even people that are currently sitting on that board and so I'm really excited about this candidate because you know when you have that kind of experience and I working in the industry and understanding music and events and those types of behind the scenes kind of work. I mean, that's just too valuable to look and nitpick at her resume. She obviously meets the qualifications and I don't think that we would be making these types of considerations for quite frankly, a lot of other candidates. So I'm excited for her and I'm looking forward to us approving her. Other comments? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I've been trying to think back over the time when we've had so many appointments where this has ever happened before, where we've denied an applicant and then opened it back up again. Maybe we can't compare this with our bidding process, but on bidding process, when they open it up, the low bidder generally gets the bid, very seldom bidders. Unless there's some gross error here are those beds opened up? So I voted against her based on the original resume And I just took it face value at what it was and voted against it And I feel I just have to do the same thing again just to be consistent with that So I want to make those comments. Thank you, sir. There are comments. Hello, I'm in to Burke. I Thanks, Mayor. I know we've talked about this, many of us, quite a bit behind the scenes. I would just reiterate on my end, it's the process. We had probably eight other candidates or so between us. So it's not a matter of no one willing to fill the position. I know mayor you talked to a few and about other board positions and But really it's yeah, it's it's process of it. And I just wanted to state that thank you I'm not gonna get into all the other intricacies of it. Thank you Thank you. Alderman Bailey. Did you ever thank you? Yeah, I can appreciate everybody's comments. I've gotten to know Stacy since my return home When I look at the appointment of who she is replacing, and I don't know the makeup of the rave board, I think it would be unfair not to give this young lady the opportunity because she's definitely capable and qualified and a good person. And like I said, I don't know the makeup of the rave board, but the appointment of her and who she's replacing, that's what we have to take into consideration. I mean, I don't want to make it about black and white, but we're certainly giving the impression that's what it's about. Other woman, Bronte. I just want to say that I do support this appointment, and I appreciate that. I'm saddened that she didn't make it through the first time, but I appreciate the opportunity. to have another opportunity to vote her through. I think that she will make an excellent RAVE board member, and I think that what she brings to the table is significant, and I hope that you all will support her. Thank you. Alderman Beach? Your Honor, I just need to go on record here in response to Alderman Bailey's comment. There's no issue here black and white for me, and I don't want to be on record as this vote, my vote, would suggest that. It's really just very upsetting to me that that would even be thought of. So thank you, sir. Thank you, and I'll get to Alderman Durkee in one second. Do my due diligence so I don't get yelled at tomorrow morning, but Legal Director Meyer provided us with a couple of rules that are relevant. I want to make sure that as we continue to have this discussion, we are directing all questions and remarks to me as a chair, refraining from attacking a member's motives. confining all remarks to the merits of the pending question and avoiding using other members names so an example would be alderman from the third Ward or the seventh Ward or whatever that so just want to throw that out there because this discussions about to go down a path I don't want to go so I am saying that and I'm sorry someone over here had their hand raised alderman Durkee I believe the purposes of my rejecting the candidate were made very clear okay thank you is there other alderman thunberg thank you mayor uh i would like to second uh alderman or the uh 10th ward alderman and thank my spokesperson the 14th alderman for uh correcting me or getting me on that uh yes it is it is extremely i i would say uh i have great respect for a for fellow alderman and and I believe that was so far off that I I would be I would be remiss to see that that statement isn't sitting on Mars right now it's so far off to allude to that fact so I would I would just like to say that is and for the record that is absolutely preponderance. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. And then did you have your hand raised? Okay. Sorry. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Based on what you just read, I need to apologize to the alderman of the 13th board for mentioning his name early. Alderman Prunty. I think at some point I would just request that since there were, Eight other applicants. I I would like to see their package to compare With miss Brown's. Yes. Thank you in one. I would reiterate First are there other comments discussion alderman frost? Thank you. Um, I'm gonna vote in favor of Stacey Brown join the rave board and it has nothing to do with the race and it definitely has nothing to do and I hope we don't go down the path of a Feeling like when any board member leaves a board that we have to replace that outgoing board member with someone that looks thinks or acts like the previous board member because there's really no basis for that and we really we don't know how this person is Going to perform or act the information that we received on Stacey Brown and the I guess the amended or attended Roles that she she has I mean, you know worked with Grammy award-winning engineer Craig Bauer I mean, I don't care the fact that she can sing is great But that's not why I'm voting for her to be on the rave board I mean the rave board like many other boards is made up of people from our community who are volunteering to come forward to serve Hopefully without any agenda, maybe they have some experience, but she doesn't have any experience in my mind that that's really Beyond anyone else. She's a realtor in Rockford as far as her career and she has some leadership roles I think within Keller Williams where she works And frankly, that's that's good enough. I mean we appoint You know a wide variety of people from different career paths to boards if if and there's no reason to believe that she's not going to perform well based on that and It has nothing to do with how good she sings, who she was a Grammy artist with, what she produced. I don't care. We're going to see whether she's a member, truly a good member of managing Rave and serving on the board in the near future. And frankly, if she either doesn't like it, which we see people do, sometimes they leave the board. If she is not performing well, Mayor, then that's something that you and her may have to discuss or you and the Board President may discuss going forward. But for this point, I mean, I know that, like, again, we've talked Lot about the the resume and in the amended resume and I mean, I just don't think there's really anything on there That really makes her any more qualified but again, I don't think there's anything on there that makes her any less qualified to serve as a member of a organization in our community that we have that we get to point people to thank you other comments discussion Just want to add, you know, again, my apologies for kind of the clunkiness of that process. That is, to me, not on Ms. Brown but on myself. I certainly believe her to be eminently qualified for this volunteer position. I would say one thing that continues to come up that I've heard is, well, if I applied for a job, I would have done this or this differently. I would just remind everyone these aren't jobs. These are volunteer opportunities to serve our community. And I've requested unpaid volunteer opportunities to serve our community. I will also say we need more people. So if you have names, I will take them. I do have the seven or eight names. I've contacted all of those seven or eight individuals. I have yet to have one say yes, they will serve on RAVE or any board thus far for for a variety of really good reasons. Their business is going so well, they can't serve. They're loving playing with their grandkids more than wanting to volunteer their time on a community board. I say all this that some may serve down the road. Some said, give me three months or six months, and I'd be willing to serve on another board. But beauty of our boards is they're rolling. And I would just urge, send me names. We need names. Talking about pensions. honestly i don't know of someone in rockford who's versed in public safety pensions besides someone who's my finance director so if you know someone i need one right now alderman durkee so uh send them my way uh because none of those people on the board knew about public safety pensions before they were on that board we need folks that can just put in the time and i think how fast-paced things are with people being so busy with their home their work all of that I'm finding it a lot more difficult to find people willing to serve, so would love more names. With that, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. No. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Darius. Aye. Bailey. Bonney. Aye. Ten ayes, three noes. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to motions and resolutions, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, committee recommends approval of the application and the award acceptance of the Service Transportation Block Grant, STBG program, Harrison Avenue reconstruction. Excuse me. Item number two, we have committee recommends approval of the application and the award acceptance for the surface transportation block grant STBG program, 9th Street two-way conversion. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Bailey fine 13 eyes next we'll go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Trina Thank you approval of a resolution authorizing a settlement in Collins at all versus city of Rockford. It's all Winnebago County Circuit Court case number 2020 dash L Dash 327 which requires a suspension of rule 9. Thank you You have a motion to suspend rule 9, right? Is there a second? I We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion on the suspension of Rule 9? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? All right. Now we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Ross. Aye. Serena. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent next we're gonna go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you I number one the committee recommends approval and award a bid for demolition package number 25 to end track in the amount of sixty thousand one hundred nineteen dollars and eighty cents the funding sources the CDBG funds Number two, the committee recommends approval and award of it for demolition group 26 to Northern Only Service. The amount is $72,665. The funding source is the CDBG funds. Number three, the committee recommends approval and award of RFP for rental registration services to Opportunity Space in the amount of $30,000 annually. The contract creation is one year with four possible one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered at contract renewal only. The funding source is the construction services operating budget. Number four, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract for vehicle repair, aerial ladder, and McQueen emergency equipment in the amount of $99,278. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Number five, the committee recommends approval of award of RFP for financial advisory services to Spear Financial. in the amount of 5,000 plus 0.25% of gross production for issues between $1 million and $5 million and 0.1% for issues over $5 million capped at $30,000 per transaction. The contract duration is one year with four annual extensions. The funding source is the bond sale proceeds. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the extension of the garbage collection contract to Rock River Disposal. As amended, the initial contract term ended 12-31-2020, and the first available extension was executed in 2020 through 12-31-2023. One remaining extension is available for the term 1-1-2024. Staff recommends a five-year additional term through 12-31-2028 with a possible additional five-year extension, which would be through 12-31-2023. 33 The funding sources the construction services operating budget number seven the committee recommends approval of a change order for city yards leaking underground storage tank closure The original contract was twenty three thousand six hundred the change orders fourteen thousand seven hundred sixty eight dollars for a new total of thirty eight thousand three hundred and sixty dollars a field investigation sampling activities were completed early July 2023 to attempt to define the lateral extent of soil groundwater contamination a the funding source of the public works building and non-capital improvement fund holy mackerel number eight the committee recommends approval of the application acceptance of the usdp brownfields community-wide assessment grant amount of 500 000 that does not require a cost match and the grant term is from october 1 2024 through september 30 2028 Number nine, the committee recommends approval and application and acceptance of the Continuum of Care Rapid Rehousing Award for clients at the Family Peace Center from Department of Housing and Urban Development in the amount of $205,644. The grant does require a 25% match of $41,130. This will be a, we will also have a partnership with one part-time staff located at the Family Peace Center. Number 10, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the 2021 Byrne Justice Assistance Grant in the amount of $171,472. This grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is from October 1, 2020 through September 3, 2024. The grant award will provide funds for the purchase of portable radio communication systems used by the police department. Number 11, the committee recommends approval acceptance of the 2022 Byrne Justice Assistant Grant Award in the amount of $170,722. It does not require a cost match, and the grant term is from October 1, 2021 through September 30, 2025. It will also provide funds for portable radio communication systems. number 12 the community recommends approval of the acceptance of the department of commerce and economic opportunity weatherization grant award the amount of 960 312 this is supplemental funds for our current weatherization program the grant terms from march 1 2023 to february 28 2025. Number 13, the committee recommends approval of the application acceptance of the Continuum of Care Coordinated Entry Award for the City of Rockford from HUD in the amount of $124,005. The grant does require a 25% cost match of $24,801. The matching funds are coming from the CSBG. The grant term is from September 1, 2024 through August 31, 2025. Number 14, the committee recommends approval of the application acceptance of the Continuum of Care Rapid Youth Program. REHOUZING GRANT AWARD FROM HUD IN THE AMOUNT OF $95,989. THE GRANT DOES REQUIRE A 25% COST MATCH IN THE AMOUNT OF $23,997.25. THE FUNDING, I'M SORRY, THE MATCHING FUNDS COME FROM THE CSBG AND THE GRANT TERM IS FROM NOVEMBER 1, 2023, UNTIL OCTOBER 31, 2024. 15. The Committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the Continuum of Care Grant Award for the ROSE Grant 2003 program from HUD in the amount of $145,219. The grant does require a 25% cost match in the amount of $36,304.75. The matching funds are subrecipient, in-kind, and cash match. The grant term is from June 1, 2024 through May 31, 2025. Thank you. 16. The Committee recommends approval of the Application and Acceptance of Continuum of Care Rose Grants Consolidated Program from HUD in the amount of $774,560. This grant does require a 25% cost match in the amount of $193,640. Matching funds are subrecipient in kind and cash match. The grant term is from May 1, 2024 through April 30, 2025. Number 17 is also the committee approving the approval of the Continuum of Care Planning Grant Award from HUD in the amount of $140,000. It requires a 25% cost match of $35,000. Matching funds are coming from the CSBG. The grant term is for December 1, 2024 through November 30, 2025. Number 18, the committee recommends approval of the application acceptance of the Continuum of Care Coordinated Entry Award for clients at the Family Peace Center from HUD in the amount of $56,655. The grant does require a 25% cost match of $11,331. The matching funds are FPC, in-kind, and cash match. The grant term is from September 1, 2024 through August 31, 2025. There will be a partnership with one part-time staff located at the family peace center places 18 matters before you. Thank you There's 18 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 18 items? Alderman Durkee don't worry. I'm gonna vote for these We'll vote yes in something We had a scoring system at one point in to score, I meant to bring this up earlier, the demolition properties in sequence. Are we still distributing? Am I missing that? We keep that list and it moves around, but we used to give it to the alderman to keep track. We did. I don't know that answer offhand. Director Franzen? No. So we still do maintain the scoring system. The scoring system is especially helpful when we're trying to evaluate number of properties to demolish given limited resources. We are in a position here that, you know, due to objections and another thing, other aspects of the market, the number of demolitions that we have been, you know, proceeding on have been diminishing however we'd be happy to follow up with the exact scoring of the properties in question here and I guess just maybe to alderman Durkee's point or maybe others is there a way that we could get an updated list whatever that may be and if I do understand what you're saying director you're saying with some being fought in court and So maybe item one or house one could not get demolished because it's still in the process, but just some update form Of the nine that are in question. No, I Apologize I believe alderman Durkee is asking for the overall list not just these nine. Is that what you're asking for alderman Durkee? Yes, your honor. What I'm looking for, the list always had the understanding that it was a dynamic list. The properties would move up and down, and sometimes the alderman's input on a piece of property that they either go by or whatever every day may affect the scoring system, providing the staff with some things about the property. that may be unaware in a day-to-day situation. So we were provided the rank system of the scoring and how we were prioritizing demos. With that understanding that that something if there's a fire in the roof that thing moves way to the top and it has to be demo So if we could see that from time to time that right that I Don't recall getting a lot, but I recall getting it like once a year is that is that what you recall? It was like once a year once every six months. It wasn't that often we can get you a list. We'll follow up absolutely Thank you. Thank you other odd discussion clerk. Could you please call the roll? Oh Berkey aye Logoman timber Ross Trina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Bailey bunny 13 eyes Excellent. Thank you. Next. We'll go to new business and go to planning and development committee and alderwoman Wilkins. I Honor item number one an ordinance approving the adoption of an ordinance to terminate the South Rockford tax incentive Financing TIF district. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? See no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? logan timber frost Tarina printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Bailey Bonnie 13 eyes. I thank you next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman terena thank your honor i have three items item number one an ordinance approving a variation to allow an attached deck an above ground pool to encroach into the front yard setback along pepper drive a variation to reduce the required front yard setback along pepper drive from 33 feet to 24 feet for an attached deck a variation to reduce the required front yard setback along pepper drive from 33 feet 27 feet for an above-ground pool and a variation to reduce the required side yard set back from six feet to four feet for an above-ground pool in an r1 single family residential zoning district at thirty three sixty four Ramblewood Lane number two an ordinance approving a Special use permit for a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels and in our one single-family residential zoning district at 3225 Halsted Road and lastly an ordinance approving the amendments to Chapter 17 article 3 section 17 dash 43 for the rental registry Thank you Thank you. We have three items before us. Reminder item number two needs ten positive votes to be approved. Item three has been amended. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Sir King. No one. Two and three. Logaman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Mario's Bailey Bonnie item number 113 eyes item 2 and 3 12 eyes 1 no Excellent next up. We're gonna go to a finance and personnel committee alderman frost Number one is an ordinance approving the Illinois mutual aid box alarm system agreement The purpose of the only may best agreement is to update the current agreement to provide and receive predetermined resources to and from other jurisdictions. I Number two is an ordinance approving the authorization for the City of Rockford to utilize funds from the Public Water Supply Loan Program at the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and application of loan for future phases. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Council, we've got two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logoman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios, Bailey, Bonnie. 12 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second, we have a third. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Have a wonderful night.