And on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we ask tonight that all the business conducted here would be because of the way that you would have it to go. And it would be for the benefit of the citizens of Rockford and Lord, that it would benefit the entire city. We pray also, Lord, that you'd be with our fire department and our police department. Lord, as they go about today, throughout the day, protecting us day after day, that they might be able to go home safely at the end of their shift.
 Be with all the city council, Lord, tonight as they make these decisions that need to be made, for we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I file an allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Kirby Ross urban's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back 12 present Thank you. So we have a quorum Could I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for City Council meeting held on October 2nd 2017? Thank you all those in favor say aye those opposed same time I
 All right, that journal proceeding passes. Can I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on October 10th? So moved. Second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Motion passes. This evening we have three proclamations. First proclamation we have is for American Pharmacists Month, and I believe we have some folks from the University of Illinois College of Pharmacy.
 Can't hide in those coats back there. Come on forward. Yeah. Don't make him be out here on himself. How are you? Good. How are you? Good. Good. Thank you.
 Whereas pharmacy is one of the oldest of the health care providers dedicated to the health and well-being of all people, and whereas today there are over 270,000 pharmacists licensed in the United States and nearly 18,000 pharmacists in Illinois providing service in health care and counseling to assure the rationale and safe use of all medications with the help of 38,000 pharmacy technicians.
 And whereas the use of medication as a cost-effective alternative to more expensive medical procedures is becoming a major force in moderating and modernizing overall health care costs, and whereas today's powerful medications require greater attention and safety to the manner in which they are used by different patient population groups, both clinically and demographically.
 And whereas American Pharmacists Association and the Illinois Pharmacists Association have declared October as American Pharmacists Month with the theme, Know Your Medicines and Know Your Pharmacists. Now therefore, I, Thomas B. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford do hereby proclaim October 2017 to be American Pharmacists Month. Would you like to share a few words with us?
 Nothing about the importance of knowing our pharmacist? Come on. All right. Well, we really appreciate all that you do, and thank you for being in Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. Now, I know United Way of Rock River Valley is going to want to talk. How are you, Matt? Good to see you. Thanks for being here.
 Whereas the United Way of Rock River Valley fights for the health, education, and financial stability of every person in our community since 1919, and whereas the United Way of Rock River Valley creates change in inspiring donors, mobilizing partners, and helping people overcome challenges to a better life, together with the partners all across the area, United Way invests in the community solutions that drive measurable, lasting impact that no single donor or organization can achieve alone.
 And whereas the United Way of Rock River Valley builds hope for families by helping children succeed in school, connecting adults with job skills and economic opportunities, and building safe and healthy neighborhoods. And whereas giving to the United Way of Rock River Valley is the most effective way to collectively impact lives in the Rock River Valley.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the United Way of Rock River Valley Week beginning with October 16, 2017. Would you like to share a few words, Matt? All right. I'll pick up the slack back there in white coats.
 I'm Matt Zarefsky from the United Way of Rock River Valley. I just want to sincerely thank you, Mayor McNamara and the council, for your support of the United Way over the years. Without your giving, we couldn't do the work we're doing in the neighborhoods in Midtown and Ellis Heights. We wouldn't be here.
 having the programs in the Rockford Public Schools for the iREAD program and the PageTurer, and we couldn't continue to support our partner agencies, which right now we're supporting 43 partner agencies, through your goodwill. So I just want to sincerely thank you on behalf of our organization, and have a great night.
 I will also say staff is having the chili cook-off, and whatever departments won in the past, score is 0-0. New mayor, maybe a new department winning, just going to say. I am really excited about the next guest that we will have. We have some visitors from Gigi's Playhouse with Executive Director Paula Capone, and I may need some help to see if someone could grab them from outside. I think they're outside.
 Alright. What's up, Cameron? How you doing? I'm a little nervous. You were giving them to me outside. He's like, no, no, I got my mic. You want the mic? I may trade you that. Do you want me to put this behind you or do you want to hold this? Or shall we? Shall we? Can I hold it? So this is the best, is it? Okay. This is awesome.
 Oh, you kids are so darn cute. Parents are all right as well. Whereas approximately one in every 691 children are born with Down syndrome, representing an estimated 6,000 births per year in the United States. And whereas currently in this country, more than 400,000 individuals are living with Down syndrome.
 And whereas in Rockford, Gigi's Playhouse, Down Syndrome Achievement Center, has been the cornerstone of hope and success for individuals with Down Syndrome and their families.
 And whereas Gigi's Playhouse is one-of-a-kind achievement center for individuals with Down syndrome, their families, and the community, Gigi's Playhouse offers more than 25 therapeutic and educational programs that advance literacy, math skills, motor skills, and more, all of which are free of charge. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, am honored to proclaim the month of October 2017, Down Syndrome Achievement Month.
 Would you like to share a few words? Yes. Awesome. Thank you, Mayor McNamara. We are so happy to be here today, all of these beautiful faces where we're more alike than different. As Mayor said, there's over 450,000 people in America living with Down syndrome, and right here in the Rock River Valley, we're serving over 325 families in a five-county region.
 So today is a special day because we do want to change the old perceptions that we have about Down syndrome and so that they can live, be inspired and empowered to live successful lives.
 Making this proclamation today, that's just one step forward of changing those outdated perceptions that people with individuals have so much to offer to our communities. So thank you so much. Truly appreciate it. Thank you, Mary, for your continued support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 We are really fortunate to have Gigi's Playhouse in our community. The work that they do is really inspiring to all of us. So thank you so much, Paula. So on a normal night, I wouldn't feel as bad, but following Gigi's Playhouse and then moving to police and fire pension actuarial presentation, maybe, that may be a hard act. I apologize. Ms. Eklund, would you like to introduce our guest?
 Oh, I just turned that on. But do you want this? So every year the city is obligated to undergo an actuarial assessment of our pension funds to determine our annual contribution amount. Mike here from Neihart was hired through a competitive request for proposals process earlier this year that involved representatives from both of the pension boards as part of that evaluation process.
 He is here to present his first report. We understand there's a number of aldermen that are new to the group, and this is the first time you've had exposure to this type of an annual report, so we want to make sure you had an opportunity to answer or to ask questions. And we have made a couple of changes.
 for this actuarial report and some of the assumptions. So we want to make sure Mike had an opportunity to explain those. Alderman, you all have a copy of the presentation on your desk. My apologies, it's not on the screen. But you can follow along with the handouts. And if you have questions, feel free to jump in and ask Mike. You want it? I'll hold it, I guess. There you go.
 Thank you, Carrie. Like you said, thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, members of the Council. It's an honor to be here this evening. It is a tough act to follow. We'll have to work on that for the next one. But it is a pleasure to be here. I am the actuary. I'm with the Neihardt Company. And I'm going to rip through this report. Please ask questions. This can take 15 minutes. I'm going to try and not let you make it take an hour and a half. It really depends on the questions and the comments from you guys. And before I get started, I would like to thank Carrie.
 This is my first year as the actuary for the city of Rockford, and there's a lot to do in the first year. I'm sure it was kind of a nuisance at times. I'm not just doing one valuation. I actually do two valuations. The first thing I do is I pick up the prior actuary's report and I replicate their numbers just to be sure that I'm using the right assumptions, the right methods, have the census data determined correctly. So it's really a double amount of work for Carrie and her staff as well. So I just want to acknowledge that and thank you for your help.
 Okay, I think you have a copy of the presentation in front of you. Before we get into the 2017 valuation results, I just want to talk about a couple of the really key assumptions that we use in the valuation. They get some press every now and then, and I just want to bring it to your attention and just keep you informed as to what we're using in terms of these assumptions. On page one, the Assumption Review Mortality,
 I can spend an hour talking about mortality. You would never have me back if I do that, so I'm going to make this really quick. Short story is we are not using the most recent mortality study that was published by the Society of Actuaries. Society of Actuaries published a private sector study. So by private sector, I mean that was they were using data that was specific to large corporate pension plans. They published a study in 2014.
 I'm not necessarily sure that it's appropriate for this group, for the police and fire group. What we relied on is the Department of Insurance did an experience study back in 2012. And when they looked at the actual experience of all the police and fire plans across the state, they determined that the best fit for the actual experience was this RP2000 mortality study. So it is dated. It was back from the year 2000.
 We did make an adjustment to that this year with the help of Carrie and her staff. We talked about making some assumption changes. What we did is we used that as the baseline, and we projected 17 years of mortality improvements. So we took a mortality improvement scale. We built in 17 years of mortality improvements, and that's what we used for the 2017 valuation.
 I think this is a temporary spot. It's a holding spot. As a result of the 2014 private plan study that the site new actuaries did, they have been commissioned to do a new actuarial study, mortality study, for public sector plans. So I'm pretty confident that within the next couple of years I'm going to get information
 A national mortality study with mortality experience specific to public sector workers. I'm hoping they're going to get one table for teachers, one for municipal workers, one for police and fire. Once that comes out, we're going to take that, we're going to give that a lot of serious consideration once that's published. I expect that maybe 2018, 2019.
 The other data point that I expect to get in the next year or two is the Department of Insurance is going to undertake another experience study. So they're going to look at the experience of police and fire plans across the state, not only for mortality experience but for retirement, turnover, salary growth, all kinds of other assumptions to be used in the actuarial evaluation. So when that comes out, again, that's going to be a point that we will give some serious consideration to. Okay? That's more than enough on mortality. Next one, page two.
 Interest rate. The other key assumption in using the valuation is interest rate. We are discounting your future benefits that are paid from the plan by the expected earnings rate of the investment portfolio. So one of the really critical assumptions that we use in the valuation, and I've got three different examples.
 points of reference here that I want to bring your attention to. The first is the 6.75% rate used by the Department of Insurance. Let me back up a second here. Our recommendation is to continue to use the 7.5% interest rate assumption that had been used in the prior evaluation. First point of reference, 6.75% is used by the State Department of Insurance.
 This is kind of a generic rate. What they base that 6.75 percent assumption on is a 50-50 blend of equities and fixed income. You have a higher equity exposure than that. Yours is in the 60 percent range. You've only got about 35 percent in fixed income. Some alternatives, a lot more equity. So just as a starting point, if they're using 6.75, I think we should be a little bit north of them just because you have more equity exposure. That's the first one. The second one is this building block approach.
 What I did is I looked at the target allocations for both the police and the fire plans. I compared that. I used that as a starting point. Your investment manager provided us with some expected real return rates. And I just did some simple math. I multiplied the expected return by the exposure.
 Did all that multiplication, built in a 2.5% inflation assumption, and I come up with a 6.9% expected return. Just simple math. And I'm not an investment professional. So this is my simple, I'm just trying to determine if that's reasonable or not. When the investment professionals do this, they're going to make a couple of adjustments to that that I'm really not qualified to do in my profession. One is they're going to change that expected return to,
 Taking into consideration that there is a long-term impact of rebalancing the portfolio. When you force yourself into a habit of buying low and selling high, it actually has been proven that there is a long-term impact on that. So they might take that 6-9 and goose it up by about another 25 basis points or so. The other thing that they're going to adjust it for is active management. You've got some actively managed funds.
 Again, they would take that 6.9%. Maybe, you know, we're looking at somewhere in the mid to low 7% range. So, again, it does provide some support for that 7.5% return assumption that we're using for the valuation. The last piece of information I have is on page three. And this is an assumption survey published by NASRA. NASRA.
 is an organization that consists of all the large state retirement plans. So the Illinois, you know, IMRF is going to be in this. They're going to be included in this survey. The Teachers Retirement Fund, all the big state plans. And I think this is a great tool to use for survey information because you've got the same control group every year. There's no new state plans being adopted. There's no state plans going away. So you get the same plans year by year. So it is a very useful tool for following trends.
 If you look at the chart, there's three bars in the chart. The red bar is the results of a 2008 interest rate assumption survey.
 The white bar is the results of a 2013 assumption rate survey, and the black bars are the results of a 2017 preliminary study. If you kind of look at what's going on in the bars, I mean, the first thing that catches my attention is going from 2008 to 2013, any interest rates above 8 percent basically went away. So, you know, between those in that five-year period, people that were using return assumptions greater than 8 percent lowered it to something 8 percent or below.
 Look at the, when I compare the 2013 to 2017, I'm looking at the big red and white bars right in the middle of the page.
 With the 8 percent assumption, those were basically chopped in half. So a lot of movement between those two over this nine-year period. If you look at the averages that were used, 2018 or 2008, the average was right around 8 percent. 2013, the average was right around 7 and 3 quarters. 2017, we're at 7 and a half percent. So again, when I look at the interest rate assumption that Rockford is using for the police and fire plans, you're right on average with these large municipal plans.
 It is something we're going to need to keep an eye on. I'm looking at this trend, and we're going to the left. It went from 8 to 7.75 to 7.5. It's something that we are going to need to keep an eye on. I'd like to get ahead of this and not fall behind it. I anticipate if we keep moving in this direction, we're going to be using a 7.25% return, you know, maybe over the next five years if this trend continues. But at least for now, 7.5 is an appropriate return. Okay? Okay.
 Page four, just a couple bar charts here, participant information. Just my comment on this page is that these are mature plans. You look at the number of retirees. You've got about the same number of people receiving benefits from the fund as you do active employees here.
 Just puts a little bit of pressure on the plan because, you know, the only ones that are contributing to the funds are the active members, so they help to pay for some of those benefits. The more retirees you get, the more leverage it gets in that direction. It becomes a little bit tougher of a funding challenge, but right now you're in pretty good shape. Fire plan, a little bit older, you know, by about a year, 1.3 years, a little bit older average participant, a little bit more service too, 14.2 versus 13.7. But, again, both mature funds. Page 5.
 In these next few pages, we're going to start to look at some of the experience over the last plan year. In 2017, I have the police asset chart. On page six, I have the fire chart. They're going to look real similar. And what I want to point out here is there's two bars in the chart.
 The red bar is the market value of assets. The black bar is the smooth actuarial value of assets. And for valuation purposes, what the state requires us to do, and it's really standard common actuarial practice, is to use a smoothing method to value the assets. If you kind of think about what's going on in the valuation, by far the most volatile piece that we have is the investment return. We have no control over what the assets earn. And the choppiness of investment returns from one year to the next.
 If we weren't using a smoothing method, our contributions and our funded position would also go up and down with the market values. So by adopting a five-year smoothing method where we recognize gains and losses over a five-year period, we're ironing out the humps and sailing through the middle of that. It really brings a lot of stability to the funded position and to the contributions.
 One of the things I'd like to point out here, though, is based on the experience that we've had over the last five years, we're in a deferred loss position. If you compare the black bar to the red bar, there's about a $5.5 million difference on January 1st, 2017. That says I've got $5.5 million of deferred losses that I need to recognize over the next five years. So we've got a little bit of a headwind ahead of us here. Now we're having a pretty good year so far in 2017.
 One of the things that might happen here is if we continue to go in this direction, we might get investment gains this year that are going to wipe out those deferred losses. That's really the theory and why we're using the smoothing method in the first place is we want the good years to be, we want bad years to be followed by good years, good years followed by bad years so that we kind of sail through the middle of this. So page five is the police.
 Chart, page six is the fire chart, and again, very similar information. You get to the end of the period, and there's about a $5.6 million deferred loss in this one, too. So we'll see it when we start looking at some projections. There is a little bit of headwind that both plans are facing that could be wiped out by positive experience here during 2017. Page seven. Okay.
 review of the 2016 contribution. And this one, I'm just going to spend a minute on this page. I think it's helpful. This is more of an actuarial 101, I guess, page. It's going to give you some insight when we get to some of the projections that we look at in a few slides.
 The contribution consists of two components that we make every year. We're paying the normal cost, which is the value that members in the plan, that active members are earning with an additional year of service. So that's one component of the contribution. We're going to pay for benefits that get earned over the next year. The other piece of the contribution is an amortization payment on the unfunded liability.
 And if you kind of take that amortization payment and you, you know, you can make an analogy of funding this pension plan to paying down a mortgage. You know, if you make, everybody that's got a mortgage payment knows that you've got two components to that payment that you make every month.
 There's interest and there's principal. So if you contribute or if you pay the bank that you took the loan from, if you pay more than the interest cost, you're paying down some of that principal. And that's really what this chart is trying to represent, is that if you contribute at the level of the black shaded bars, which is the normal cost plus the interest on the unfunded liability, we're going to pay down the unfunded liability. So your shortfall is going to go down from one year to the next, right?
 If you look at where we are paying, you know, and we've got three bars here. We've got the funding policy contribution. We've got the statutory minimum, which is governed by state law. And those two are the same. So we are contributing the minimum contribution with some discretion to contribute more than that.
 the actual contribution is right in that range. So we are contributing less than the service cost plus interest on the unfunded liability. So that brings a couple things to mind. As we get into the projected contribution charts and some of the other metrics that we're going to look at in a few slides, what you can take away from looking at this chart is, number one, we're not paying down the unfunded liability. So since we're not contributing at that level, unless assets way outperform that 7.5% rate,
 our unfunded liability is going to grow for the near term. The other thing we can take away from this is by state statute, we've got to get to 90% funded by the year 2040. The plans are in the 60% funded range right now. If we're paying less...
 then the interest costs on that unfunded liability, at some point, that contribution needs to jump up to a point where we're paying more than the service cost plus interest cost. So kind of two things to look for just based on where we are today. And this is an okay policy. This is what the state is recommending that we do. There's all kinds of different ways we can fund this thing. But the method we are using, we should have an expectation that the unfunded liability is going to grow in the near term, and the contribution is going to escalate as we go through time.
 It's just what has to happen to get this thing paid up. Okay? So page 7 was the police plan. Page 8, and again I'm not trying to short the fire fighters, very similar information now for that plan as well, just based on the funding policy. We aren't contributing the service cost plus interest cost, so that unfunded liability is going to grow in the near term.
 We're actually going to look at some of the valuation results. So these are the 2017 valuation results for the police plan. I've got three columns of numbers in the chart. The first one is where we were for the 2016 valuation. If you look at where the plan was, we were 63.4% funded. We had a recommended contribution for the year of about $8.2 million.
 2017, there are two columns there. The first column, same as 2016, is the label on that. I use the same methods, the same assumptions that were used in the 2016 valuation. I have new asset information. I've got new census data. When I did my first pass of the valuation, kind of same as the prior year, the funded percentage went from 63.4 up to 64.7. So there's a little bit of a gain there.
 Part of it was just the way that I matched the prior results. I actually came in a little bit lower than the prior actuary and we had some good experience over the last year for this plan. So the funded position went up a little bit, contribution went down. Mentioned on the mortality, we did make that one change. We changed the projection scale so we used the RP2000. We built in 17 years of mortality improvements.
 When I adopted that change, and we made one other change to this, too, is we, the prior actuary had been using the same mortality for healthy and disabled members. There are distinct mortality assumptions that are published. So as part of that RP2000 study, there was both a healthy and a disabled study.
 A table that were published by the Society of Actuaries, we adopted the disabled mortality too. So the combination of building in a projection for mortality improvement and adopting disabled mortality, it brought the funded position back to similar to where it was in the prior year at 63.4%. Contribution is actually down a little bit from 8.2 million to right around 8 million. Okay? Police plan. All right. Page 10 is the fire plan.
 Similar information here. 2016, the plan was 58.5% funded. When I did the first pass, same as was done in 2016, the plan was a little bit lower. We were down to 57.3. Actually, it was a little bit higher than the prior actuary when I matched the results for the fire plan versus being a little bit under for the police. We made the same mortality assumptions.
 Built in 17 years of projected mortality improvements. We built in the disabled mortality. When all the dust settled, the plan was 56.1% funded. Contribution went from $8.8 million down up to about $9.3 million for the year. Okay? All right. Next six pages are some projections that we've done. So there is a projection of contributions, of funded status, and of the unfunded liability for the next year.
 40 years or 35 years shown in the chart. And there's two bars in the chart. If I can ask you to please focus on the black bars first. That is following the funding policy that you're currently using. So we are amortizing the shortfall so that we get to 90% funded by the year 2040. And if you follow that contribution pattern, you know, what you see is we're going to
 We're going to creep up a little bit, but when you get towards the tail end of this projection, those are pretty crippling contributions. You're going to see that they're going to escalate pretty rapidly. It's a long time down the road. I wouldn't get too worried about it at this point, but it's out there. What the red bars represent is...
 As I mentioned earlier, there's more than one way to fund this plan. The 90 by 2040 is one policy. A lot of other municipalities that I work with have adopted a funding policy to front load the contribution pattern. And what this one represents is a funding policy where we're going to get to 100% funded by 2040. So we're going to pay off a little bit more in the short run.
 And there's some advantages to that. You look at the contribution patterns, we iron it out. We don't have that big tail up in the late years. And if you look at the very bottom of the page,
 I've summed up the contributions over the entire projection period. And just by doing a little bit of front-loading and funding to that 100 by 2040, I mean, you save $47 million of contributions over the life of this projection period. So there are some advantages to letting the money work for you by getting it into the trust, letting it earn investment earnings at 7.5% or whatever our assumed rate of return is. There's definitely some advantages to front-loading the contribution pattern. Thank you.
 This is only one way, and this is a, I guess I can mention, this is a projection modeling tool that, it's an Excel-based tool. Carrie has access to this, so as we're having discussions about funding policy, she has access to this software, so she can get in there and we can do all kinds of different funding combinations here and look at, you know, what it means over the short term and the long term. So police is on page seven, or I'm sorry, on page 11.
 You look at page 12, we have similar information for the fire plan. So again, it shows the black bars are the funding policy that we are currently on the path with. The red bars represent more front-loaded policy where we're going to contribute more today and a little bit flatter pattern and overall $45 million of lower contributions over the life of the projection period. And again, going back to the other pages.
 the bar chart that we looked at and we said one of the characteristics that we should expect is we're paying less than the interest costs and service costs right now. At some point, that relationship needs to change and the only way to get this thing funded is at some point down the road you need to be paying more than the service and interest costs on the unfunded liability. So that's page 12.
 And 14, I've got two more slides, projection of the funded status of the police and fire plans. Police are on page 13, fire is on page 14. Again, over the same projection period, and this, you can really see the funding policy here. Under the one, we're going to get to 90% funded by the year 2040. With the black bars, with the red bars, we're going to get to 100% funded by 2040.
 I guess I'm more concerned, what draws me, what draws my attention, it's not being 90 or 100 percent out in 2040. I'm not sure that a public plan needs to be 100 percent funded. It's more the path to get there and if you look at the black bars in this chart, there
 The funded position of the plan really doesn't change much. We don't make, you know, even though we're contributing, we're not really moving those bars much above that 60% funded line for a long period of time. There's an extended period there where it's not really improving much.
 Where by front loading we can get that bar to ratchet up a lot more quickly. So page 13 is the police plan. Page 14, the fire plan. Again, similar metrics. Without, for funding 90 by 2040, our expectation should be that this plan is going to stay, you know, in that high 50% funded range for an extended period of time until we start making some headway. And the last two slides.
 Pages 15 and 16, just a projection of the unfunded liability. And again, going back to the slides we looked at at 7 and 8, we're not paying the interest costs on the unfunded liability. So in the near term, and by near term I mean, you know, 10 to 12 years, that unfunded liability is going to continue to grow. Where by front-loading a little bit and funding a little bit more today, we can move that unfunded liability and pay it down a lot more quickly. Any questions, comments?
 The question I have is, can we get Gigi's Playhouse back? That would be cool. This is fun for an extra. You think this is bad. That could be a lot worse. No, I appreciate all the thorough information that you're providing. Alderman Hervey. Do we have either a percentage from our current contribution or a dollar amount, annual dollar amount,
 based on our going forward on our annual contribution, that the increase would be to alleviate the unfunded liability by 2040? That's a great question. And right now, the way that we are funding this plan, we are going to get to 90% by the year 2040. And built into that amortization method,
 We are assuming that contributions, so we're not paying this off like a mortgage either, just by design. A mortgage, you pay a flat dollar amount every year. We are funding these as a level percentage of pay, and we are assuming that the payroll increases by 5% per year. So there is built into these projections, there is a 5% growth in the annual contribution, just by the way that we are choosing to fund the plan. Okay. So if we're moving to...
 like a five-year or even longer budget projection, because that's one of the things we want to do, we would need to build in a 5% annual increase in our pension contributions for police and fire in order to meet that threshold by 2040. Correct. Yeah, and we've got, as Mike mentioned, he gave us this modeling tool so we can –
 I've got those exact numbers. So we know, I mean, that's, again, obviously that every year it's going to be updated based on the actual, what actually happens in the plan. But yes, we have those numbers. And if council chooses at some point in the future to change the funding policy, so let's say we decide to go from 90% by 2040 to 100% by 2040, I can tell you what that looks like.
 Even at 90%, though. Yes. That increase, I guess what I'm getting at is that's going to be an annual increase to our contribution. Yes. Beyond what we're currently. And we've got our projection currently has built in a 7.5% annual increase in the pension contribution because of some of what we've seen over the last year.
 few years in contribution increases. So everything that we've communicated to council as far as five-year projections go assumes a 7.5% annual increase. So we've overestimated based on what Mike's told us. Okay. Alderman Frost and then two more. I don't know who wants to answer this, but with respect to page 11, we talk about the sum of the contributions between the baseline and alternative plan.
 shows that about a, almost a $50 million difference, but if you go to the net present cash value, it's more nominal. I guess I don't, the present cash value, I mean, what's the relevant, obviously we're not gonna be able to fund
 This at this time, right? This is all over, incremental over the next 20 years? It is. Well, it's incremental over the next 35 years. So this is over the entire 35-year projection period. So the sum of the contributions is just the pure sum. So I'm just adding up all the contributions over the 35-year period. The present value, I'm discounting those back at 7.5% to today's dollars. So you're right, it's a more nominal difference there, but it's a little bit apples and oranges, too, because under the baseline projection period,
 You know, it's $134 million versus $138, and you actually have to – the present value is a little bit greater under the 100 by 2040, but you're 100 percent funded at that point, too. So it's a little bit of apples and oranges going on there as well, because under one scenario, the plan would be – would end the projection period at 100 percent funded. The other would end it at 90 percent funded. And which one are we – is it a hybrid, or are we –
 Yeah, so we're on the black bars in this projection. That's the path that we're on currently with our current funding policy, which is 90% by 2040.
 Okay. And the alternative would be the 100%? Yes. And this is one alternative. There's all kinds of different ways we can choose to do this. The 90 by 2040 is the state minimum policy, so we have the discretionary ability to do anything greater to that. And, you know, what some have decided is there's some advantage to front-loading this, and if you've got the ability, it's something to consider. You know, but there is a difference. You're trading –
 You know, it's a balancing act between current dollars and future dollars. And, you know, we're looking at a million and a half per plan if we were to change that funding policy and go from 90 to 100 percent by 2040. So then that would hit immediately. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. You mentioned front-loading. I am a believer that time in the market is just as important, sometimes more important than the amount put into the market. Okay.
 Can you give us any examples of other municipalities that have been in this example, or have been in this situation where they do decide to front load?
 Yeah, and I guess in terms of market timing, we're not making a single $50 million contribution. We're doing this over the course of time. So whether it's monthly or quarterly or biannually, you're making these contributions to the plan. So hopefully it's going to balance out. And we're not doing it over one year. It would be over a 5, 10, 15, 20-year period. So over the course of time, that market volatility and the volatility,
 impact of market timing, it gets weighted away, I guess. You know, it's versus putting in a large lump sum at one point. I think that conversation then goes, if we're going to front load where that money is coming from. It's always the tough one, yep. Is the conversation that no one really feels like having.
 No, and it's not fun. I mean, nobody – people don't walk around the street being proud that we're funding our plan. You know, they like the new parks. They like the new pools. They like – people like things like this. It's a tough decision to make. Also, in addition, the – I see that the – you've made it very clear that the 7.5% interest rate assumption is being used when the Department of Insurance is at 6.75%.
 percent and then based on your own calculations, it's 6.9 percent. Do you feel it's prudent to continue to use that 7.5 percent when we have the Department of Insurance using 6.75 and then your own calculations being 6.9 percent? I would hate to overshoot or undershoot based on a rather generous projection.
 And I agree. And I've done that analysis. I guess going back to the Department of Insurance, their investment mix is a little bit different. So I'm not sure that's the right one to kind of benchmark. It's information that's out there. So I want to make sure that's.
 brought to your attention. In terms of the math, you know, now we're getting into some discretionary assumptions. You know, what's the market going to do over the next, what are capital, what are capital markets going to do over the next 10 to 15 years? And you can ask 10 different people and get 10 different answers.
 You know, I've done that same analysis and come up with 8.5% with other municipalities just based on the capital market assumptions that their investment advisor was using. And I've come in lower, too. I've come in as low as 6%. So those really can be all over the board. And I think...
 If you had a 75% fixed income portfolio and we did the math and it's coming out to 4.5%, I would say we've got a problem here. You know, there's a disconnect. We're not going to get 7.5% with that fixed income allocation. I think based on the survey information and really based on the math, too, we're in the ballpark, but it is something to keep an eye on because we do see the way that that trend is going.
 You know, we do have some conservatism maybe built into some other assumptions. We're assuming that salaries increase 5% per year, and, you know, we haven't seen 5% increases in a long time, you know, in this current inflation environment. So if we were to lower the discount rate assumption, you know,
 You know, maybe from seven and a half down to seven, we would also look at that. You know, there is an inflation component both in the return and in the salary increases, and we might look at lowering that to help mitigate some of that impact. But it is something we have to keep an eye on. Yeah, and I would rather be prudent on this number and see that lowered personally. Okay.
 But thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Can I just point out, too, that our actual 10-year historical for both plans, our returns have been right at 7.5% for the past 10 years. But as Mike pointed out, you know, obviously this is one of at least –
 Just publicly, one of the most contentious issues related to pension funding is that rate of return assumption. It's something that we're going to have continued pressure to review. And with the modeling tools that have been made available to us, we can tell you what that looks like if we were to lower that. Just, yeah, following and closing, a lot of those numbers are going to be skewed when we look at the 10-year.
 I would be cautious also, which I think both of you are very well versed. Yeah. Once that 08, 09 debacle drops off the 10-year because we've been past the 10 years, we're going to see our average.
 10-year return skyrocket, which is very disingenuous when you then would figure in 08 and 09, that's gonna bring the numbers way down. So, cautious on that. Yeah, we're absolutely, you know,
 One of our challenges is not only balancing our legal requirements to fund the pensions, prudent financial decisions, but also what we can afford on an annual basis. So obviously it's an ongoing challenge and one that we'll continue to make suggestions to council for improvements to get us to that 90% by 2040 number. Thank you. Any final questions for Mike?
 Alderman McNeil. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Currently at 7.5%, we're okay. You don't. Yes. And we've been okay. Yes. For this report for this year, we are in agreement that 7.5% is acceptable. Alderman Hervey, you have a follow-up? Very quickly, one thing I would like to see. I was very shocked when you said we're only at 63%.
 percent of funding. I know about the debacle in 2008-9, but prior to that Rockford was always very proud of its very high funding level. And I'd like to see what happened to change that. It wasn't contributions. I think we intentionally shorted the pension by what, a million dollars, twice? Not even that much. Not even that much. Twice. So what takes us, besides the market, and I know we had a big
 But we had to make up almost a $5 million shortfall in one year. So what took us from at one point being almost a 90% funding level, I think Rockford was 87, 88% back in the good old days, and now we're at 63. What takes you there? And the reason I ask that is that the public needs to know.
 I think there's a perception that we're like the state of Illinois. And people give that perception. They'll, wow, the city hasn't funded the pension. Yeah, we have. And the taxpayers have funded it. I think right now, what are we at? 42% of every property tax dollar goes to fund our pensions. That's not a complaint. It's just a reality. Yeah.
 So what happens that we're doing all of those things and we're still, it seems to me, falling further and further behind? Sure. So my, when we present the 2017 levy, there's gonna be a slight change in the way that we levy for pensions. Currently we levy,
 This report traditionally would have been the basis for the 2018 levy collected in 2019. It's not a completely uncommon practice in the state, but it is a little bit unusual, and we'd like to change the timing of that. So this report will be the basis for the 2017 levy.
 At that time when we present the levy, we'll present some additional information on the pensions, and we can give some history on the funding level and how that's changed over time, what factors have put us in that position. Any other final questions? All right. Thank you, Mike. No, thank you. Not as good as Gigi's, but good. Thank you, Mike. Well, thank you again for your time. Thank you.
 Okay, to petitions and communications alderman Durkee. Thank you, your honor. I have three items I
 On the Roman numeral 4A, number one, a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, zoning and land use administrator, regarding Madison Street Corridor Study. This study will be referred to planning and development. Second is a memorandum from Mark Williams, our economic development manager. This is regarding an amendment to the economic incentive agreement between the City of Rockford and Napleton, 6677,
 This will be referred to planning development. Finally, a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, city administrator, which is regarding an intergovernmental agreement for a lease between the city of Rockford, Rock Valley College, and the Rockford Public Library. This will be referred to planning development. Thank you. And Alderman Beach for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. There's three items listed on your paper, one added. First, as there's only more of an appeal to agenda for the meeting to be held
 on October 23rd to 17 excuse me on October 17th to 17 number two liquor and tobacco advisory gender for the mean to be held on October 17th have 17 number three memorandum from Vicki Manson
 Housing and Program Manager regarding transfer of city-owned properties to the Rockford Quarter Improvement under the Blight Reduction Program. And then the fourth is a memorandum from Mark Stockman, Public Works Director, regarding the use of city-owned property. All four of these will be referred to the Goals and Regulations Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Beach. And Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item under C1, a memorandum from Wayne Dust, Planning Administrator, regarding the preparation and submittal of U.S. EPA grant applications, commitment to provide the local match for cleanup grants, and this will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. And moving to public speakers, we have...
 Five public speakers this evening. Just a reminder to all public speakers, we have a lot, three minutes, and the first public speaker that we have is Jennifer Smith.
 Thank you, Mayor McNamara. Good evening. I'm here tonight as a representative from the group known as iBike Rockford. iBike Rockford started several years ago as a Facebook group by local cyclists who wanted to connect with other cyclists and raise awareness about their shared passion. In 2016, members of the iBike Rockford community worked to rally support for inclusion of bike and pedestrian accommodation in the construction plans for Spring Creek Road. From this groundswell, a group of residents began to organize and expand the momentum of the online community into a true advocacy group.
 Since February, I Bike Rockford has held regular meetings, bringing together representatives from multiple cycling groups, owners of local bike shops, as well as many residents such as myself, who are just people who enjoy being on a bike. We have settled on a mission, working so that more people of all ages, abilities, and biking styles can say, I Bike Rockford, for fun, recreation, and transportation.
 We have participated in safety safaris, helped dedicate the new bike rack in front of Memorial Hall, reviewed and provided input to R1PC on the update to the comprehensive regional bike and pedestrian plan, hosted a booth at National Night Out, and participated in and hosted multiple cycling events, including biweekly Swarm the Market rides that have drawn around 50 people each week.
 Two members of our group attended a National People for Bikes conference to learn best practices about building great places for bikes, and have had regular meetings with municipal staff and representatives to talk about planning and projects that relate to our efforts, and to provide input and assistance when possible. Tonight we're here to provide this update on our work, and to say thank you for efforts that have already been made to make Rockford a great place for people on bikes.
 But we also come with a sense of urgency because as you are aware in the past month alone there have been three serious crashes involving people on bikes in a near Rockford, one of which resulted in the death of a cyclist. These were in addition to a crash this spring near Rock Cut State Park which also resulted in a cyclist's death. As a community of cyclists, each of these incidents brings fear, anger and dismay, but also spur us to rally as a group and ask what can be done so that never again will injury or death befall a person in our community who chooses to ride a bike.
 So we're present tonight. We know that decisions about land use, economic and workforce development, health outcomes, the availability of robust amenities, and the challenge of ensuring equitable access to all of these things rest in your hands.
 The current budget reality makes these decisions more challenging, but provides the opportunity to consider how decisions can be made that accomplish multiple goals for multiple areas. An investment that improves access to jobs and amenities, spurs economic activity, and lifts health outcomes for residents, a singular investment that amplifies returns on multiple fronts is an investment worthy of deep consideration. Investment in active transportation, which includes but is not limited to bicycle infrastructure, can have that multiplier effect.
 We know that you will soon be reviewing a new CIP and ask that you ensure these investments are included. We are committed to working with you to accomplish our mutual goals of improved safety, health, and economic vitality for all citizens. The few of us here tonight represent a much larger contingent of people who happen to love bikes, but who are also ready to roll up our sleeves and do what it takes to see that vision become reality in Rockford. Thank you. Thank you.
 You beat the timer. Next public speaker we have this evening is the Reverend Derek Shelby. Matthew 23, verse 33. She needs to live on the west side. I do live on the west side. You need to talk about straightness and infrastructure over there. We hope so. Matthew 23, verse 33. Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how can you escape the damnation of hell?
 Lord Jesus said, this is Lord Jesus talking. Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how can you escape the damnation of hell? Think what we had in Rockford was a de facto containment policy for guest black people, economically, socially, and politically. You know, a few months ago, Alderman Thompson Kelly came. We were talking right here, and she told me, Reverend Shelby, me and Alderman Hervey talked
 had this program, got ten black males, young black males. I guess they had some program with the, or agreement with the construction industry. Took them through all the tests and they did wonderful, everything they did. And then she said, this is what she told me, the last thing they did was take the drug tests and all ten of them failed. All ten of them failed. They would have been apprenticeship in the trades industry.
 And I left and I thought, I got home, I said, Lord, that don't sound right. I can see if one failed, all ten. I can see if three failed. They went through all that, and then the night before they take the drug test, they all smoke weed. Not one black male. They're doing major infrastructure on North Main.
 Not one. I watch them. No black men over there. They're doing labor infrastructure on Spring Creek. No black males. They're doing major infrastructure over there on Harrison. Now, no black males. They ain't doing nothing on the west side, but forget that. Not one black male working for construction. You don't see them nowhere. They took all ten of them and they said they failed. Now, all they got to do is, I know it's a lie,
 Just go find out the clinic that did the test and they'll tell them that they lied. Rockford is a filthy city, a wicked city, and a whole lot of people going to hell. The Lord said you can't escape the damnation of hell. There's people in this room going to hell. Some of these filthy white men, you're going to hell.
 For all the wickedness you've done, it's some wicked white men in Rockford. It's some filthy, evil, vicious, vile, depraved white men in Rockford. They're rotting to the core. Thank you, Reverend. They're going to hell. Really appreciate it. Next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Bramley.
 All right. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the women and the citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. I'm going to start out by saying I represent the Renewal Turning Point Program.
 Proverbs say, with all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who are most deserving attention, faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard to help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success. Be sure that in all your worrying, planning, and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most.
 Donald Trump, I'm only going to mention him briefly, was the fact that he highly disrespected the peoples in Puerto Rico and they need all the help that they can get. The YMCA this weekend invited us to do a community packaging party where we're going to take 30 of our youth from fairgrounds. We're going to do a love shoebox and put a shoebox together for the children's
 for Christmas children and also do care package for people in Puerto Rico. Also, just here in San Diego, the Park District blessed me with being able to take 68 youth and 12 adults to the Parking Fest.
 and I want to thank the Lutheran High School for providing us with vans. Also, the YMCA providing us with vans. Now the Rockford Housing Authority van is back in operation. They're providing us with a van. We met with Larry Williams today, the Peace and Nonviolence Coalition, the eight of us, and I'm going to be meeting with him on Monday. I want to go to where the most important flyer,
 of this here year. This year I have been contacted by three governors that's running for office. One that took me to the Hoffman House, I got the biggest steak that I could find. One took me to Red Lobster and what have you. And not only I'm bringing, this is going to be the first time in the history of Rockford that governors
 came and pointed me out. I didn't go looking for them. They came looking for me. They nicknamed me. I heard you the community, they call you the community mayor. They want me to get out to bring the peoples to vote. But I told them you have to come into my house
 and speak to the people. So this is going to be the first time in Rockford, if anyone in here can tell me, any time a person running for governor come into Rockford Housing Authority to speak, not only the governor, they running for the lieutenant governor, I got about five people just running for Dr. Leticia Wallace spot.
 Chad won't be able to be with me this weekend because he got the football and I appreciate him on the football. I'm challenging the mayor because the mayor, they also ask, you know, one thing is we always see people running for office when it's election time, but we don't see them after the election. I say, John, you went all out your way. You've been helping the mayor. I helped the mayor's father get in office. And I'm going to make it real quick. And I helped the mayor get in office.
 And there's only one spot that I want that I haven't got yet, and that's being in the community development section because y'all talk about us, but we're not at the table, and we need something that we need to get eat, too. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara and City Council. I'm also here to represent I Bike Rockford as president of the organization. While a relatively new organization, we have an incredible amount of energy, passion, and desire to act. This is a group of cyclists who do long-distance row riding, commuter city riding, mountain biking on trails, and everything in between. We thank you for the infrastructure that's been put in place in Rockford to date.
 The recreation path along the Rock River, the bike lanes on Springbrook, Huffman, and Rockton Avenue, the sharrows on Harlem, Court, and Highcrest, to name a few. We believe that these improvements have made it easier, more enjoyable, and safer to ride a bike in the city of Rockford. And more of these improvements will make that better. We are, though, saddened and discouraged by recent accidents involving cyclists as well as pedestrians, some of those resulting in the death of community members.
 These were situations that with better infrastructure to support active modes of transportation may have been avoided. These incidents have resulted in fear and anger amongst cyclists. We actually have a message group that when we hear about a cyclist being hit or witness it, and this happens more often than shows in the newspaper, we send out a message to confirm that everyone is safe, i.e. alive and not in the hospital. I look forward to the day when we do not have to use this message thread because there are no incidents to report.
 We understand that it's a regional effort, and we are encouraged to work and are excited for the proposed work to see in the Region 1 Planning Council's Comprehensive Regional Bike and Pedestrian Plan. In addition to visiting you all tonight, we have also been to the Winnebago County Board meeting last week and plan to be at Roscoe Village Board and Boone County Board later this week.
 You all and these other parties, amongst others, are key players in making our region a place where alternative, healthier modes of transportation can be incorporated to make biking a comfortable and pleasant way to move around our region. We understand that in the upcoming weeks you will be considering a new CIP for 2018. We urge you to see where bicycle infrastructure fits into the budget. This infrastructure would help protect cyclists and provide an equitable alternative to transportation and provide a healthy option for getting around.
 Like I mentioned, we are a group with a desire to act, and we are hopeful that we will be able to partner with you in ways you find helpful and in promoting and building for safety in our community. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Victoria De La Rosa. I'm a lifelong resident of Rockford, Illinois, and I'm here today also on behalf of the League of Women Voters.
 The League of Roman Voters of Greater Rockford supports the passage of the welcoming ordinance for the city of Rockford and encourages all of your support as well. Unlike a resolution, which is an expression of policy opinion for a limited duration, an ordinance carries the full force of law, which creates consistency, stability, and trust in the application of city policy.
 Currently, there is nothing to prevent a city employee from inquiring about legal status of a resident who comes into City Hall to pay his or her water bill, apply for homeowners improvement program, or any other city service open to all residents regardless of legal status. The welcoming ordinance provides clear guidance to city employees in their interactions with our diverse community.
 The proposed welcoming ordinance promotes public safety in four key ways. First, it mirrors the Illinois state law by drawing a clear distinction between local criminal law enforcement and federal immigration enforcement authorities, which will encourage city residents to work with city police to report crimes free from being questioned about their legal status. Second, it prohibits city employees from engaging in immigration-related threats or verbal abuse.
 Third, it bars city employees from
 requesting immigration information were not required by state or federal law. Fourth, it prohibits conditioning of city benefits, opportunities, or service on immigration status were not required by state or federal regulations or law. This ordinance does not create any new rights or privileges, but it does promote confidence in the immigrant community that immigration enforcement is not a local concern.
 A welcoming ordinance does not diminish the federal government's ability or power to enforce immigration law. It does not confer any additional rights or legal status to any individual, nor prohibits ICE enforcement in Rockford. The League of Women Voters of Greater Rockford believes that immigration policies should promote reunification of immediate families, meet the economic, business, and employment needs of the United States, and in our case of Rockford,
 and it must be responsive to those facing political persecution or humanitarian crisis. The welcoming ordinance falls squarely within the League's policy position. It will promote public safety, provide clear guidance to city employees, and build trust within our growing immigrant population.
 which makes significant contributions to Rockford's economic vibrancy. We urge all of you to support it and to vote yes on the welcoming ordinance. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Moving on to new committee reports under planning and development. Dr. Durkee? There are four items up for passage under Roman numeral 5A. I'm sorry, there's more than four. Six.
 The first, Roman numeral A1, the committee recommends approval of the adoption of the First Amendment to the West Side, number two, tax increment financing district, redevelopment plan and project area. The legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, committee recommends approval of the Amarok Hotel tax increment financing district, redevelopment plan and project area. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approving the designation of the Amarok Hotel TIF, I'm sorry, the Amarok Hotel Tax Increment Financing District Redevelopment Project Area. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you.
 Number four, the committee recommends approving the adoption of the tax increment allocation financing for the Amrock Hotel Redevelopment Project Area. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the proposed second amendment to the development agreement for the indoor market between Rock River Development Partnership and the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And six, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the revised indoor-outdoor market lease agreement between the Rock River Development Partnership development and the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these up for passage. Thank you. With those items up for passage, is there any discussion? Alderman Durkee. I'm sorry. Bear with me one second.
 Director more I believe we were going to separate items five and six out because my thing is they'll be proposed amendments to those items is there any objection to Just separating those for the ease of full council to separate items five and six so we'll take the items one through four first any discussion From Council on items one through four seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the right Roggeman Toomer
 Cross, Hervey, Urbans, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Nonas, Beck, McNeely. Thank you. So those items pass. We'll take up items 5 and 6. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to move to amend the committee report under the new committee reports, Roman numeral 5, I'm sorry, yeah, 6A, item 5.
 which is the second amendment to the redevelopment agreement for the indoor market between Rock River Redevelopment Partnership and the City of Rockford, to reflect the following pages. One, in Section 3, RRDP responsibilities, paragraph F, RRDP obligations. Subsection 1, reserve fund is amended as follows. Number one, reserve fund.
 Roman or letter A. RRDP shall annually place 10% of after tax operating profits capped at $20,000 per year into reserve fund. Reservation of funds shall occur during the first five years after the indoor market opening for business. The amount to be contributed annually shall be determined by RRDP's external tax preparer.
 Letter B, this reserve fund shall be used to offset any losses from the indoor market and is intended to prevent the city from being required to subsidize operating losses from the indoor market in order to avoid recapture of state or federal historic tax credits or new market tax credits.
 Funds may be utilized for other placemaking activities by mutual consent of the parties. After the fifth anniversary of the indoor markets opening, the reserve funds may be utilized as determined by the board of the RRDP. Letter C. Letter C.
 The party shall not violate any caps on reserves that could serve to cause a recapture of tax credits or otherwise violate internal revenue service rules related to tax credit entities. Number three, in Section 3, RRDP Responsibilities, Paragraph F, RRDP Obligations, Subsection 2, the capital fund is stricken in its entirety.
 3. In Section 3, RRDP Responsibilities, Paragraph C, Budget and Construction Schedule, notice to proceed shall be amended as follows.
 The construction contract shall contain a provision that without city approval, construction costs shall not exceed 110% of the agreed upon overall guaranteed maximum construction price contained within the construction contract and value engineering estimate attached as exhibit to this agreement.
 Finally, number four, in Section 3, RRDP responsibilities, paragraph G, plans and specifications shall be amended as follows.
 The executed construction contract shall contain a provision that construction costs shall not exceed 110% of the agreed upon overall guaranteed maximum construction price contained within the construction contract and value engineering estimate attached as an exhibit to this agreement. I place this up as an amendment. Thank you. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley. No, I'll wait on that amendment because I have an amendment. Okay. Alderman Hervey. I just wanted to respond to several of the phone calls I had from people over the weekend. These were in flux, these particular amendments. I was out of town, but I got them late today. So to the folks who were asking about it,
 These amendments satisfy the concerns I had with some of the language related to the lease and also to the reserve fund because I also wanted it to be lower than what we had originally asked. I absolutely believe that the guarantees that we are giving are protected.
 We learned a lot of lessons in the way that we've done some deals wrong in the past with TIF funds in particular, giving too much power and not enough protection to taxpayers. We're going to be doing that. At the same time, we want to recognize that we've had some very good results, and we expect even further results,
 from RRDP with the indoor market. That's particularly true for business development. With the hotel coming downtown, one of the things I hear from people is, we need a broader range of restaurants. I'm particularly looking for that southern part of Main Street and the downtown area heading into southwest Rockford. Huge opportunity for some restaurants, entertainment venues.
 that I frankly think will make Rockford rock, so I'm looking forward to that. But the changes that were made,
 address the concerns that a lot of us talked about. I talked with a number of people over the weekend and do give us that protection. So I want to thank folks for being involved. I had some of the best challenges and input from people. Folks are listening and they're very connected with what we're doing. It's always a little bit surprising, but it's a good surprise. So I want to thank folks for stepping up and keeping abreast of what was going on. Thank you. Further comments on these amendments?
 Alderman Tunberg. Thanks, Mayor. I'd just like to elaborate a little bit on that. We have Alderman Hervey and I represent the council on the RRDP board. You know, I think going forth, we as a council are well represented on their board. I want to thank attorney, city attorney.
 Meyer and Mr. Cagnoni over there, city administrator. We have been in the past few days in extensive conversations with RRDP and
 I'd like to say thank you for everyone's work on coming to agreement on this. And I think something like this is, as a successful outdoor city market progresses naturally into an indoor city market, this is going to benefit the city as a whole. And I feel confident that the...
 The exposure by the city has been mitigated the most that it can be. So thank you and I would hope for everyone's support on this. On the amendment, yes, it's on the amendment. Well I guess, yes, part of that would be on the amendment. Thank you, sir. Of the 10 percent that was discussed of after-tax operating properties, I take it that this is not a 501 .
 This is a for-profit corporation because if it's a 501c3, I have a question with that wording, after-tax operating profit. And so if it were after-tax, I'm concerned if it's after taxes paid or I'm concerned if the profit is generated prior to depreciation or interest or after. So I'm just a little unclear on what that statement is.
 And then I'll reserve any other remarks until after the amendment is over. I'd like to add that we do have representatives from our RRDP here in case there are questions that would possibly be unanswered by, or better answered, or unanswered by city staff, but better answered maybe by their legal counsel, Mark Robinson. So if that is possible for them to,
 Speak in case there are questions that need to be addressed Not at all
 Alderman Beach, the Rock River Development Partnership is a 501c3. For the historical and new market tax credit structure, they have to create a for-profit entity that will hold the property. Everything comes through that for-profit entity. If you remember that colored diagram, there's about 20 boxes on it. This is the one that's a step up from RRDP. So it will be the
 the entity that has the property. The money will flow down ultimately to RRDP up and around through that matrix that you saw. Sorry, Alderman Beach, you can think of it similar, not the exact same, but very similar to what me and you had done on city council at Turner School, having that for-profit corporation for those first years.
 Thank you for that first part of my question. The other part, after tax, could you explain what part of after tax that is? I was just wondering whether depreciation was taken off of the earnings and that kind of thing before the tax was used. In the taxable entity, there will be depreciation and they will pay taxes.
 But you understand what I'm saying? Maybe I need to say it. I mean, if the operating profit is $100,000 and depreciation is $40,000, are you going to put the 10% on the $60,000, or are you going to pay the 10% on the $100,000? The 10% would be on the $60,000. Okay. Well, that's just what I wanted to know. Okay. Thank you very much. Any further questions or comments, Alderman Major? Not at the moment. Thank you. Any other aldermen have discussion points for the amendments before us right now?
 Okay, clerk, will you please call the vote on the amendments that Alderman Durkee proposed? Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Urbans. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. No. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. No. Aye.
 Thank you. So the amendments pass. We have the... I got you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, you're up. Thank you. I have a
 First, I want to thank the two aldermen that led on this to get their questions answered in bringing this to the light and sharing it with the aldermen. I do appreciate that. But being down here as long as I've had and gone through a lot of intergovernment agreements, I would just like the wording, and I'm being picky, added any changes to this agreement needs to come back before the city council.
 I'm so picky. Thank you. That item is before us. Is there a second to that item? Second? We have a second. Is there any discussion on Alderman Thompson-Kelly's amendment that all changes to the development agreement must go before this body? Okay.
 Alderman Hervey, yeah. I want to make sure there's a clarification. We did or were agreeing to the execution by legal counsel and the Mayor. Right. Subsequent to this, if there were no substantive changes, there are two things that are still outstanding. One is the letter that legal counsel would approve, and that's the letter with the contractor's guarantee and performance bond.
 have no problem allowing Mr. Meyer to, oh, and all of the other contracts. Not only that, but one of the other protections we have is that we will be reviewing all of the contracts in the construction,
 payments as they go through. Those can't come back to council. I mean, that would slow things. I just want to make sure. I think she's... I don't mean... Do you want to clarify, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, just so we're all certainly clear? This agreement that we have, that's before us this evening that we're voting on, not the contracts, not the construction, but this agreement. We have in the past voted on an agreement and there's been changes and we weren't aware of it.
 Understood. I think you have a fine amendment. We have a second. Clerk, would you please, or I'm sorry, any other further discussion on Alderman Thompson-Kelly's amendment? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call that vote? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Thank you.
 So now with the amended amended second amendment development agreement before us this evening does Council have any further discussion items on this Alderman Beach. Thank you I feel I need to say a couple of words here because personal feelings I'm I'm basically I'm not going to support this tonight and I need to I need to say how much I appreciate the effort of the part of Mark and
 Brian Peter Kathy and what they brought to this community through the city market the thousands of people that have come my family included so many and Other efforts and as you know your honor As our legal director knows as a city administrator knows as many of the aldermen know that I've spoken to my concern here is that generally any kind of business deal it ends up being kind of fair on both sides of the issue and
 And as I see it right now, the city, even in all of its glory, and even in all of its wordsmithing, and all of the I's and the T's being crossed, we are still the only ones that are at risk. When it comes down to the bottom line of things, we are the ones that are at risk. No equity do we have in this project at all.
 When this is all done, if it wants to be sold or traded away, all of the equity would go away, not to us, but to those that are operating this. To me, it doesn't seem like a good deal for the city of Rockford as a business deal. And I know it's a wonderful thing. Yes, it is a wonderful thing. The market is a wonderful thing.
 And it can bring wonderful opportunities to the committee. But I just don't know how I'm supposed to vote when I look at a situation that at the bottom line, and it says there's really very little risk, then how do we take that very little risk out of it to where if it's risky, it's shared? That's all I'm saying. So I just want to say that publicly. And again, hats off to those that have operated this.
 today, tomorrow, and the future. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Any further discussion? Seeing no, or Alderman Rose. I just wanted to make it clear that I had a lot of constituents asking, you know, why I was supporting this, and I had some questions early on about, you know,
 Rockford is investing in this and taking some risk on it. At the same time, Rockford will be taking in sales tax. At the same time, when people come to visit us, we'll be taking in hotel tax.
 At the same time, numerous Rockfordians are the ones who are benefiting from this project. I know because a huge portion of my ward are the people that are going down to this. The downtown, a lot of times people like to politicize or say, you know, we're doing a lot of projects downtown. It isn't just the downtowns.
 This is everyone's in the city of Rockford and that includes the ninth ward and that includes numerous other wards throughout the city. So that's one of the reasons why I'm supporting it and I think that the work our city has done along with Rock River development, I think it's a good deal for our citizens and the risk is minimal. Thank you. Thank you.
 One more comment I see. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm not from Rockford. I didn't grow up in Rockford. And sometimes I think that's an advantage. And one of the things growing up in the Chicago suburbs, you heard me bloviate on this before, so I thought I'd just continue the theme.
 is that you get a chance, I've got a chance to see development in Naperville and Wheaton and Elk Grove Village and downtown Arlington Heights and all the cities that dared, and they dared to take the risk. And when I came to Rockford, the recurrent theme has always been
 What what happened? Why is Northern Illinois in DeKalb? Why don't we have rail? Why don't and you look around and Why did the west side be abandoned? Why did all this happen and we're left with that? That's the legacy that we in This this course you have and so it's up to us to start reversing that legacy and sometimes it means daring Greatly, I know it's not our money per se. It is our money. I
 I mean, we live here, this is our home. And we have struggled with downtown. When I started working in Rockford, no one out where I lived and worked wanted to come downtown. Now, this is what I hear about. Have you been to the downtown market? Have you eaten at a Brio? Have you seen? We now recruit at Swedes. We bring them downtown.
 It's a complete reversal. We have an inertia and we have a momentum. We can either be the Daniel Burnhams of Chicago and dare greatly, or we crawl back into it and just throw up our hands and say, we don't do this. So development does not come without risk. It does not, unfortunately, the way the IRS works, the way the state of Illinois works or doesn't work,
 We're forced to use new market tax credits, historic tax credits, river edge zones. And to do that, we have to leverage a number of entities, both private and non-private. And, you know, I read this stuff. My brains fall out of my head when I start reading this stuff. I may have to read it over and over again to understand it. And I've got to call these guys. What's this word mean? I don't know.
 But it does, it takes work to do that. And then once doing that, this is what we do. And I've said it before, right now, the success that these folks have brought to Rockford has created actually a new entity, a new spirit downtown. I've said it before. Where do you go to see the heart of Rockford? You go to City Market on Friday. Everybody's there.
 You name the demographic, they're there. Everybody's there. In fact, I think it's the west, some of the west side, far west, farther west side wars that are using it the most.
 I mean, everybody's there and people talk about it. It does create energy. This will expand that. And so it also displays to other developers and other folks that come here that, yeah, we want to negotiate our position hard, so do they. And at the end of the day, you know, you walk away and we lose stuff, they lose stuff, but that's how deals are made. And as we go forward with other deals and other entities, this is what it's going to
 So if we want to revitalize our downtown, I think it's imperative that we continue to do this stuff. I'm the farthest east side guy, but I'm probably one of the more supportive guys of downtown and the west side. We need to redevelop these areas. If we ignore them, we don't take a risk, and we don't take continued risks, we lose that inertia, we lose that momentum.
 So, sorry for the Sunday school lesson, but I'm pretty jazzed up about this project. So, thanks. I hope you vote. Okay. For Barbara Coleman, I'm going to play it back to her. Thank you. And Alderman Beach, you had a follow-up? Yeah, thank you for letting me speak a second time on this. I want to mention to the learned doctor that we have taken risks down here. And I've been here long enough.
 to see the risks on Broadway and then down 7th Street. And this city council voted for millions of dollars. I can think of 30 million that we voted to not know what was going to happen, but Zion Development Corporation took it brick by brick, building by building, buying out stores, rehabbing, building the neighborhood up, then down to Mike Leifheit's.
 Right there at the corner the Irish rose he started block five and then block four and then block three this council is bolted Yes, yes. Yes every deal stands on its own merit or it should so I want I want to be proud Inside of this council ring in previous council for what's accomplished here in the means of dollars right now I want to say to you
 And this is an incident I drove through town the other night to see all the lights on in the old trust building for the rented condos up there. I saw one of the tenants down there walking the dog in the green space. It's working. It's wonderful. There's no question about it. And I've eaten in those restaurants down there, too, and I hope more come. But, you know, in this budget crisis we have, and if you look at the way we're financing what we're financing, a lot of this stuff now is being financed over into CIP money.
 Whether you want to admit that or not, that's where it's coming from. And we stand here and yell and scream because of our CIP program. It's got to come from somewhere. It doesn't come out of the sky. So I'm just saying, you know, Tim, bless your heart. I'm excited, too, but I know my vote doesn't excite you tonight, and I'm really sorry about that. And I wish that I could just say yes, but...
 Thank you, sir, too, for the representation you give this city. Thank you. And for clarification, the monies in this agreement are coming out of the redevelopment fund, just so people at home and here know that. Any further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Herkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. I'm standing for the PBC site and regions. Hervey. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely. Okay, thank you. Those two items pass. Moving to codes and regulations, Alderman Beach. I think you go. I think you go. I thought we did those together. All right. Please read this in Alderman Durkee. I'd like to, Mr. Paramountarian, I think I already read this one in, right? I thought he did. Yeah. So I'd like to amend.
 Move to amend Roman numeral 6A, item 6, the revised indoor market lease agreement between the Rock River Development Partnership Development and the City of Rockford to reflect the following changes. Number one, following the text from section two, option terms is deleted. The RRDP shall have the option of renewing the lease for five consecutive five-year option terms upon provision of written notice to the city.
 No lease less, I'm sorry, no lease than six months prior to the expiration of the then existing term. Number two. I believe you're reading the wrong. Okay, that part's deleted. I'm sorry. That's deleted. That's deleted.
 My apologies. Yeah, this one's gone. Yeah, the option to, I'll clarify again what I just read, the RRDP. So I have the option of renewing the lease for five consecutive five-year option terms upon the provision of the written notice to the city. No lease than six months prior to the expiration of the then existing term. That's deleted. Now, number two, the following text from section two, option terms, is added. So this is what's going to replace it.
 A, RRDP shall have the unilateral option of renewing the lease for one additional term of five years by the provision of written notice to the city no less than six months prior to the expiration of the then existing term. B, RRDP shall additionally have the option of renewing the lease for two consecutive five-year option terms based upon mutual consent with the city.
 which consent shall occur within 45 days of the provision of written notice from RRDP of its intent to renew, which notice shall be provided to the city no less than six months prior to the expiration of the then existing term. We'd like to place that amendment up for passage. Okay, we have an amendment up. We have a second. Is there a discussion on that amendment?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkin. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomber. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Irvin. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. The amendment passes. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would place Roman numeral 6A, item 6, as amended up for passage.
 Does anyone have any discussion on item 6A, the amended item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Still abstaining? Okay. Irving. Irving. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 Don't worry, you'll have one more shot. That item passes. Okay, moving on. Alderman Beach, Coats and Regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. There's two items. B, 1, committee recommends approval of the pro seo of the city-owned lot at Main Street and Auburn Street.
 And number two, it recommends the final plat number seven of Riverside Marketplace subdivision. That's at the corner of Bell School and Springbrook Road. I place both these up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there a discussion on those two items before us? Alderman Hurley? With regard to the final plat of number seven, is that developed, or is this just the final plat approval for that parcel? City Administrator Kegnone?
 Thank you, Your Honor. This is a replant of the existing development where the Swedish American Cancer Facility is to prepare for new development to the south of the existing building. Okay. Any further discussion on those two items? Seeing no further discussion, Clerk, will you please call the vote? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvin. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose.
 Thank you. Those items passed. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have five items. First one is recommending approval of the vouchers in the amount of $5,965,744.89. Second is approval of the intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Board of Education, District 205 for the Kishwaukee Elementary School water distribution system improvements.
 The city's cost is $92,000. The funding source is water replacement improvement account. Next, we have an approval of the police canine sale agreement for the transfer of ownership of a certain canine ISO from the city of Rockford to Cornelius Matthews.
 for $1. Next, we have approval of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, the Fiscal Aging Agreement. City of Rockford is the designated grant recipient. Federal Workforce Development Funds, the Fiscal Aging Agreement is reviewed annually and provides 60-day written notice for termination by any party.
 And then item number five, we're holding out. There's still some further work to do on that one. So I'm placing up items one through four. Thank you. Items one through four. Before there's any discussion on those items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. One through four. Beach. Quinones. Harris.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Just a couple things. One, we will not have a fifth ward meeting, I'm going to get this in early so the word gets out, on October 26th.
 We have them the last Thursday of each month, but that is also the night of the Booker Banquet. And I understand that Alderman Thompson Kelly will be receiving recognition that night. So I feel obligated to be there. So I will be attending. So we will reschedule it for early November. We're going to have the fire department there to do our winter preparedness.
 Tell us what to do when the power goes out and some other good tips. We do that every year and have some fun raffles for warming items in the event that we do lose power. The other thing I wanted to correct, we don't respond to people when they're speaking, but from a legal standpoint, I feel kind of obligated here. I've worked with civil rights in this town for a long time.
 We actually did some testing some years ago with the NAACP and some other groups, a couple of law firms, related to minority hiring among the building and construction trades. The 10 African American young men that were rejected in total were not rejected because some of them may have failed a drug test
 But it was at the interview stage that they all got knocked out, not because of a drug test. They made it through every other piece, and when they got to the interview, so they passed the test,
 whatever physical things and other kinds of stuff they had to do, but all of a sudden, you know, for years we heard they can't pass the test, they're not qualified. Then all of a sudden they made it through because we cherry-picked them. We already knew they had A's and B's in algebra, and if they had over-the-counter drug tests, we would have done that too, but they didn't exist back then. So I just, I don't want people to think that there were ten perfectly good African-American young men out there who all smoked weed. They did not.
 they did not pass the interview stage. And I don't think Derek did that purposely. I think he may have forgotten because it was a few years ago. And I also want to say that some of the unions have made significant progress since then. People tell me sometimes that I just get on their case and I never say anything positive. IBEW, which used to be one of my most...
 well, we used to go at it, but they have done a yeoman's job of recruiting young people, not just of color, but from Rockford, period. Rockford has a lot of
 of young people who are lower income, who are not of color, who also get left out of things. So I stopped talking about race as much, because I don't really care as much anymore. I want Rockford people to get front and center and take advantage. We're doing a better job, and I have to say this too, because I used to criticize fire and police,
 and both especially in fire. They have really stepped up to the plate. I'm proud of the fire and police classes that I'm seeing, not just because the people are of color, but because we did the outreach. Even if people don't make it, that's not my biggest beef. My beef is that when they don't feel like
 they're welcome when they don't feel like this is a part of something I can aspire to. I think the worst thing inner cities do is give the impression to the kids who live within them that they are lesser beings. So hats off to those folks who are getting that out. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you. If the financial task force means we've been talking about cutting several costs and ways the city can save money, one of the issues that came up was our health care plan.
 and how it relates to our wellness center. And I would ask, Mayor, if either HR or your office could contact Marathon Health. It spends quite some time that they've either given us a quarterly or biannual report, just that we could kind of see where we stand with respect to the usage, the cost utilization, and just the overall viability of the program. Yeah, thank you. Perfect, good question. We can certainly do that.
 Thank you. And we'll provide that to all council members as that comes out. Alderman Irving? I just wanted to highlight some activity in the ward. I was over at Greater Harvest Church on 19th Street, and last week they had a week-long revival that was pretty epic. One of the nights I was allowed to play the drums, so that was fun. And they also had a
 Taste of Harvest, which is members of the congregation that came and they sold ribs and a side for $3 a plate. So, yeah, fed my whole family with 20 bucks. It was amazing. And then I just want to just touch on some of what...
 Ms. Vanita was talking about, and I just want to say and echo how proud I am to be a union carpenter. Just recently I had a friend of mine that was accepted into the trades that was just excited. He was stoked.
 because of the opportunity that was placed before him and then also when he got out into the field he saw someone of his own color that he said, Natavia said was the most reassuring thing that I've ever experienced in the workplace because it was really intimidating seeing all of the the I was going to say colorless, but the white males and for him to see someone of his own color
 Built confidence in encouragement, so I just want to touch on that I think thank you other men Hoffman. Did you have your hand up or? Okay, I Just wanted to say that the pillars at Ohio and Harrison as of today are complete At least my residents have called me and told me that they're complete. They are so excited and
 And they want me to thank everyone that was involved, which includes Marco Ramirez from Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers Local 6, IBEW Local Union 364, Wilson Electric, former NWIBT President Brad Long, current NWIBT President Al Golden, Justin Fern, John Groh,
 And the mayor. We thank you all for helping us to complete this project. And for those of you who don't know, we've turned the lights on with no taxpayer dollars. So thank you all. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Speaking of the RACVB, I just thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to speak. Thank you.
 What do you know, I had more clients in town over the past couple weeks. This time they're from Elmhurst, one, two weeks ago, and they hadn't been, oh no, that was my clients from Naperville. They had not been to Rockford since the 70s. So they're still looking for a few of those dive establishments downtown that are fortunately no longer there. Just kidding, they weren't. But they were extremely impressed
 with Rockford. And I always, when I come to town, I'll show show people around a little bit and downtown is a is a highlight now. So
 Had my other clients come in from Elmhurst, and they brought their bicycles, and they came in purposefully on Sunday so we could watch the regatta on the river, which is just such a gem to have here in our city. There's collegiate teams coming all the way from Kansas. Just an immense amount of activity. And we then,
 After our meeting, we then jump on the bikes and head up towards the Forest Preserve along the Forest Preserve offices and along the beautiful bike path. Stopped in Siniseki Gardens and they just, they love it. And boy, I just, I can't tell you that, again, somebody that grew up here but lived away from Rockford for 20 plus years, there's a lot of things here that people just take for granted.
 and sometimes we need those outsiders to come in and show us sometimes how much those things should be appreciated. Another thing is...
 Ice Hogs season has started so I see my colleague over there Alderman Rose giving a big thumbs up so I expect to take in a few games maybe with him this winter. I would encourage everyone to get down there. Again a treasure that Rockford, many many many other cities would envy to have a team of that caliber. Indianapolis
 when they get called up from Indianapolis to Rockford, that is big time for those players, and then ultimately to Chicago. So they have to come through Rockford, even from Indianapolis, to get up to the Blackhawks. And I want to give a shout out to my son, Matthew, who is apparently watching City Council tonight. Can't think of anything better to do as a 10-year-old, Matthew, than watch City Council. He doesn't get enough at home.
 So hi everyone Excellent If you and your family are so hard up on weekend guests I got a 19 month old and a 5 month old You can have that at any point Real quick I wanted to second what Chad had said about the ice hogs What a lot of people don't understand Is a team of that caliber Number one is you're not going to pay the price for a ticket
 as low as that for the ice hogs. And number two is our parking is great down there. So it's free and unless you're getting into one of the
 parking buildings, but our parking is really affordable considering. The second thing is touching on what we had with Gigi's Playhouse, recognizing them. I had a ward resident who brought up Milestone who services the greater Winnebago and Boone County with adults with developmental disabilities and they're doing a fundraiser here for
 holiday cards and so I just wanted to push that out that that does help our Rockford region and Hopefully if you're interested in getting Some holiday cards or Christmas cards or that you'd support something like that. So, thank you purchase. Oh, sir Beautiful do yeah, Alderman McNeil. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I
 We all received the letter from the Illinois League of Women Voters. The young lady came here tonight and read that letter in. I had some concern when I received it and read it. And then the first concern, and I hope that Mayor, the legal director can address it, is in the second paragraph where it states that
 individuals can receive city services that are open to all residents regardless of legal status. So I would like for the legal department to address that. I think legal status still has some significance. We can certainly provide you a written response. Thank you. I was hoping that staff could address it so that the public could hear it. Certainly. Legal Director Meyer? Thank you.
 So, one of the purposes of the ordinance that I don't have in front of me is to allow certain services that aren't required, where we're not required to check legal status, to allow those to be available to all members of our community. For example, we just passed the tree loan program. That's not something we're required to check.
 as far as I know, legal status. So if anyone comes and applies for that and passes our application process, we wouldn't be checking, we wouldn't be determining whether or not we release those funds based on their legal status.
 So we have, I believe, a number of other programs we have. I'm not sure if all of them are, but the point is to make those, as long as people are living in our community, paying taxes, and being productive members, then they ought to be able to benefit from the services that the city gives out.
 So another one I can think of off the top of my head is like the Modone. Both programs, you have to be a homeowner, single-family homeowner to take advantage of. So both programs, the way the ordinance is written, anyone who resides in the city of Rockford calls Rockford home, that they have their own single-family residence that they're paying taxes on would be able to participate in those programs. Talk about an escort.
 All the federal programs and state programs do ask citizenship. May I offer, I just want to offer one exception. Head Start services are categorically exempt from requirement for legal status check, and they are, that is actually a federal rule.
 So it's not a local determination. So just so you're aware, that would be in terms of federal funds an exception. Thank you. All right, I apologize for that. I'm sure. I'm intentionally putting information up to show that it's hard for us to –
 to individuals based upon immigration status. So, Mr. Mayor, I'm not aware. I've been here pretty for a number of years, and I'm not aware of this occurring. Do we have any evidence that that's occurring here in our city or has occurred in the city?
 First, I'd ask, do you mind sharing the letter? I don't have a copy. No staff member that I'm aware of has a copy, and so it's hard for us to respond to paragraph two that you mentioned without seeing the letter. I don't know if my office got the letter. If we did, I haven't seen it yet.
 So if we could make a copy and we'll provide you a written response and we'll verbalize it at our next Monday meeting so that the public knows. We don't want to hide that, obviously, but just to have staff have the appropriate time to see your questions, review the written documentation that I don't believe they have reviewed, and provide you a thoughtful answer I think would be beneficial to you as well as the public.
 That's fine. I will hand this over to staff for them to review, but I do know that I've received a number of calls regarding the welcoming ordinance. So I wanted to be able to address the concerns that I've seen in this letter as well as some of the questions that I've received.
 coincide with what's in this letter, even though the people that contacted me didn't receive this letter. I really think that we need to address it so that people are not misled and frustrated or upset about exactly what the welcoming ordinance stands for. Thank you. I think you're right. And one of the big reasons that we're pulling it back is for some of that further dialogue to have the opportunity to exist.
 Any further officers reports? Seeing no further officers reports, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under motions and resolutions, Roman numeral IX-A, one is the adoption of the guiding principles developed during the City Council's strategic planning session in July and August of 2017, place this resolution up for passage. Thank you. Is there discussion on the item up for passage?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. 9A1. Resolution. Okay, that item passes. Alderman Beach for codes and regulations.
 Yes, sir. Under most regulations be one designating the deputy clerk ex-official keeper of the records and seal for the city of Rockford to resolution for the proposed sale of city owned vacant lot located at 5085 Browns Beach Road. Staff was originally given approval to publish the ask for the business property.
 Staff determines the property is more valuable. There's recommendations for the sale of the subject property via a different method, if you remember that discussion last week. Number three, request from IDOT to purchase a small portion of 55XX 11th Street for a culvert and bridge replacement project. All three are up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Yes. Is there a discussion on the items up for passage?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Ross. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Coffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Excellent. All right. Thank you. Next up, we have Balderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. First is a resolution to take beds for three aerial ladder trucks.
 Second is a change order for citywide street repairs, group number 5, 2017 to William Charles Construction for the added improvements at Rock Valley College in the amount of $58,696.57. Is that the item that we were holding up? Sorry. So I scratched that one. We just have the one regarding the aerial ladders, upper passage. Excellent. Is there a discussion on items before us?
 Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to the road project with Rock Valley College, is this being held out? I'm sorry? That's being held out. Oh, that's being held out. Sorry. Sorry. Is there a discussion on the items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Roggeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. McNeely. 12 ayes or 13 ayes. Aye. Item to pass. Aye.
 Alderman Durkee under new business planning and development. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 10A, number one, an ordinance approving the adoption of the First Amendment to the West Side, number two, tax increment financing district redevelopment plan and project area.
 Number two, an ordinance approving the Amarok Hotel Tax Increment Financing District Redevelopment Plan and Project Area. Item three, an ordinance approving the designation of the Amarok Hotel Tax Increment Financing District Redevelopment Project Area. Number four, an ordinance approving the adoption of the tax increment allocation financing for the Amarok Hotel Redevelopment Project Area.
 Number five, an ordinance approving the second amendment to the development agreement for the indoor market between Rock River Development Partnership and the City of Rockford. Number six, an ordinance approving the amendments to the revised indoor-outdoor market lease agreement between the Rock River Development Partnership, Development, and the City of Rockford. I place all those items up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion on any of the items one through six?
 Alderman Hervey does the reading on five and six it says approving the Amendments to is that approving the agreement that we just amended tonight or is this referencing the previous one? We're approving the amended agreements that we have we did to see thank you. Okay, clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? Logoman Timber for us Irving Irving's
 Thompson, Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely. Excellent. Those six items pass. Alderman Beach for codes and regulations. Under new ordinances, there is one. An ordinance approving the sale of a city-owned lot at Main Street in Auburn, formerly known as 1518 North Main Street and 1526 North Main Street, placed up to passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. With the item before us, is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. 13 ayes. That item passes. Alderman Beck for finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. Thank you.
 First is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Board of Education, District 205, for the Kishwaukee Elementary School water distribution system improvements. The city's cost is estimated at $92,000. Next is an ordinance approving the police canine sale agreement for the transfer of ownership of a certain canine. I sold from the city of Rockford to Cornelius Matthews for the purchase of $1.00.
 a price of $1. And the last is an ordinance approving the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act as a fiscal agent agreement. I place those three items up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the items up for passage? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Schoenberger. Aye. Frost. Irby. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely. Items one, or item number one, 10 ayes, one no, two abstains. The rest are 13 ayes. Excellent. So all items pass. Thank you. Is there a second? Wonderful. All those in favor say aye. Those in favor? Same sign? Okay. Have a wonderful night.