How those are being paid for, whether those are being paid for with the user fees, is it the right revenue source that's paying for the activity? Structurally when you look at the Community Development Block Grant Fund and what we're trying to do with abandoned properties.
 that may not be the best funding source going forward. We'll talk a little bit about that this budget session. So with that, I will turn it over to Carrie, and I wanna thank Carrie as well as her finance staff and the department heads for all their work that they've done on this year's budget. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for coming.
 Some of this will be a review for a number of you, but just want to make sure that we're all kind of starting on the same page here. So just sort of a brief overview. Again, fun types. This...
 sort of outlines how our separate funds are set up and how the funds, the revenue in each of these funds can be spent. Obviously, general fund is the core operating fund of the city. Special revenue funds include things like CDBG, TIF, motor fuel tax that are used for specific purposes.
 Enterprise funds, too, we have water and parking. Those are self-funding paid by user fees. Internal service funds used to account for goods or services provided by one operating unit to another. So IT, garage, property maintenance are all internal service funds. And fiduciary funds
 don't fund any operations, those are things like the pension funds. So just to, again, just a brief overview. So what we're looking at on the expense side in the general fund, $134.4 million. As you can see, as we would expect, about 75% of the budget is personnel, 47% on salaries, 26% benefits.
 This budget includes just a very small amount of capital for the Board of Elections. They usually budget a small amount for equipment replacement every year, but no capital for any of the other city operating departments. So expense by department.
 Again, as expected, we have a majority of the expense going to public safety, 40% for police, 35% for fire. The rest of the departments break down, as you can see in the chart. Included in that other category, that 2%, that's Workforce Investment Board, Board of Elections, Fire and Police Commission, and RMTD funding. So we have a total increase in expenses of $6.4 million.
 personnel costs obviously are a big driver for that at 75% of the total budget. We have budgeted wage adjustments for all employees that totals about 1.1 million. That includes the contractual increases that we've committed to as well as a budgeted 2% for nonrepresented staff. The breakdown by bargaining unit is listed there on the slide. We have, because of overtime,
 issues in the police department for the past several years, we've increased the overtime budget. For 2017, we added another $766,000. Pension payments, obviously the big driver in our deficit for this year, those increased $3 million. This was expected, we found, we got this number in 2016.
 This is based on a change in the mortality table that our actuary was essentially required to make. So we changed from a table that was generated in the 80s to a 2000 table. So that adds $3 million in expense. That's about a 23% increase over our 25th, I'm sorry, our 2016 contribution amount. So obviously a really big jump in both funds. Yes?
 Hi. With that increase, I understand the increase, but can you now say what it will be for, this is for 2017. Right. Also project 18. Yeah. This is giving you a new set of goals.
 Yeah, this is sort of the new level or the new base. So we did just get, and we distributed a memo a couple weeks ago with the actuarial reports for 2018's contribution numbers. Those go up about 6.5%, which is less than what we projected. We assumed a 7.5% increase. It's a little over a million-dollar increase for 2018. Okay.
 And that is with the mortality table, that 2000 mortality table staying the same. So there's no change in any of the assumptions for 2018.
 The health fund, we have turned to the health fund balance for a number of years to generate some savings in the general fund. The fund can't continue to maintain that practice, so we instituted a 5% rate increase on the premiums that we charged ourselves for 2017. That additional cost to the general fund is $623,000.
 Risk management charges, because of rate limits on our property tax levy, we had a significant increase to our risk management fund expenses in 2016. With the increase in the pension contribution, we can shift that levy amount back to the pensions.
 So that reduces the amount that we have to charge to the risk management fund. So we've got a $1.2 million drop in the risk management charges on the contractual side. Building rent, and again, this is part of our internal service fund charges. This is rent charges paid to our property maintenance group and public works charges.
 Those increased about $570,000, and that's primarily for operating expenses related to the three district stations. So all the utilities, maintenance, you know, day-to-day supplies for those stations will be paid for out of property, and those staff will maintain those facilities. That is offset by a reduction in rent charges for the PSB.
 We're still working on calculating that because we need to, based on when we leave the facility, when we actually leave the PSB, that will change the formula for how rent is paid. So looking at the construction schedules and when the PD will actually be exiting the PSB, we will have some rent charges that we pay.
 in 2017 until they vacate the building. And then we'll have ongoing rent charges for the basement space that we continue to occupy. So we don't have a net number yet, but when we get that calculated, we'll share that with the council.
 And then we have vehicle lease transfers. And again, we set up a separate fund to pay for vehicle leasing. The revenue to the fund is the video gaming revenue plus transfers from the general fund. And we pay all of the leases out of that fund. So the transfers from the general fund to the vehicle lease fund decrease $1.119 million.
 We have some leases retiring. They've been paid in full. And then we also had a fund balance in that fund that we have no operational reason to maintain. So we will be drawing $500,000 on that fund balance. Yes. What is the amount that we put in from the general fund, and what is our current gaming revenue? Current gaming revenue, let me...
 Let me just grab my budget binder here. So we have $1.3 million budgeted for gaming revenue in 2017, and general fund transfers total $1.9 million. And we expect that will continue...
 If we do not replace vehicles, any more vehicles with vehicle leases, that transfer amount will continue to decline as the leases are retired or they're paid off. So we project that that number will continue to drop. Yes. Yes, and we're finalizing that plan as we speak. We've got three years' worth. We're just looking at years four and five. Yes. Yes.
 just for 2017 or do you project that going up for 2018-2019? We will have to look at how 2016 ends and what the actual for 2017 is, what the trend is before we put a number together for 2018. For practical purposes, we would assume that at least that some of the numbers that we
 766,000 will remain in the budget going forward. And without any dramatic increases, we're not planning to increase that 10 or 15% a year. That would be the new base. And we'll project small increases based on wage increases going forward. So revenue for the general fund, we're looking at 129.1 million.
 36% from property taxes, sales and use, obviously our largest elastic revenue, 21%. Income tax, 12. You can see how that breaks down. Lease proceeds is at zero, because as we've mentioned, there's no capital replacements included in this budget. The other category, it's 23%. That includes a variety of small revenue sources, things like building permits,
 intergovernmental revenue, transfers from other funds. There's a whole large variety of categories of revenue that are included in that total. Major elastic revenue sources. So these are the revenue sources that we tend to highlight on the year-to-date financial memo that we provide to Council. Those increased $669,000 over 2016.
 As you can see, we're showing a decrease in replacement tax. Yes? Mr. Chairman, talk to us a little bit about the transfers. Transfers? Transfers as being a part of revenue. Yes. So are they dollars? Yes.
 that come from outside of the budget? There are dollars that come from other funds into the general fund. So, for example... I mean, when we look at the whole budget, the word transfer here just means it's part of what we're seeing here. Yes. From one to another. From one fund to another. So, again, just a basic example. We, in the finance department, we provide billing and customer service support for our water division.
 Water is a separate enterprise fund. The water fund pays finance or pays the general fund for the services that it receives.
 So, there's a transfer from the water fund into the general fund to cover that expense. Okay, well that's the question. So it's something separate from the revenue budget that we have. It's coming from some other fund outside of that. It's coming, yes. It's, we count it as revenue into the general fund, but there are transfers from funds, city funds outside the general fund for one purpose or another. Yes. Okay.
 When we apply for grants and we get that, that's from outside, would that fall under other? Other, yep. So generally that's counted in our governmental, depending on what source it comes from, federal, state, wherever that's coming from, that's generally included in that total. That would fall under the 23%? Yes, yes.
 So Elastic Revenue Sources, again, we're showing a decline in replacement tax. That is due to the overpayment that we were notified by the state that they had made to us. So there's approximately $900,000 that has to be repaid to the state. So that will be coming out of the 2017 budget.
 Sales tax, so in 2018 we would expect an increase then in replacement tax because we expect a small increase generally from year to year in replacement tax. We'll have that increase plus the $900,000 put back on that revenue total.
 Sales tax, again a small increase from 2016 to 2017. 2016 year to date, we're on pace to end up at budget as far as actual revenue goes. Yes? I have a question on the boat tax. Yes. That's on landlines, correct? Not on cell phones? It's on cell phones, but it doesn't apply to the whole bill. Generally a good portion of your cell phone bill is the
 the capital cost associated with your device, your phone. And it doesn't apply to that portion. So it does, it applies to portions of the cell phone bill and your landlines. So, and as you can imagine, with landlines being eliminated, cell phone plans getting cheaper, that revenue just continues to decline.
 Use tax, again, a small increase over 2016. Income tax, again, another small increase over 2016. 2015 actual came in very high, but we were notified by the state that that was an anomaly. There was an extra disbursement included in that total. So rebudget...
 A number of these revenue sources, primarily income tax, we get projections from the state on what they expect to collect. We use that number as part of our factoring in what amount to budget for the year. So they generally give us a per capita number to budget. Overall, we see a $1.29 million increase in revenue from 2016.
 Some of the highlights, transfers from the sanitation fund reduced 2.3 million. We, as you know, we're funding forestry operations out of the sanitation fund and the tree removals due to the Emerald Ash Borer will be concluding this year. So we will stop that transfer of revenue into the general fund to fund that activity.
 We also had a number of transfers from the Sanitation Fund to cover deficit measures and to keep a property tax levy even from 2015 to 2016, and that transfer was also eliminated.
 Motor fuel tax transfer into the general fund increases from $1.5 to $2.5 million. As you recall, that transfer is a wash. We end up transferring $2.5 million out of the general fund into the CAP fund for unrestricted use on capital projects. Ambulance collections, we're showing an increase of $212,000.
 And police reimbursements for services increase a net $775,000. That's a reduction in the reimbursement from District 205 with the staffing level reduction that was part of that new agreement. And then the addition of the Rockford Housing Authority contract. So, yes. Yes. Yeah.
 That won't affect our budget. There's a portion of the motor fuel tax that's collected by the state on behalf of the municipalities. That amount comes back to us for use according to state law.
 however we see fit or however council approves in the budget. The state constitution amendment would restrict the way the state can use their portion of the motor fuel tax. So as part of their deficit situation at the state level, they've done fund sweeps and taken fund balances out of some of these special revenue funds to cover general operations.
 this amendment would restrict their ability to do that. So it doesn't affect us. So net general fund position of negative $5.273 million. So again, $3 million of that deficit is due to the pension increase. And then the balance is a variety of factors, largely increases in staffing costs for public safety. Okay.
 And as you've seen with our monthly budget reports, we're projecting overtime overages for both police and fire. So this deficit reflects our adjustment of the budget so that we prevent those budget overages going forward. So that's the state of the general fund in the budget that you have in front of you. Any other general questions about that? Yes. Thank you.
 Under this police service here, I was understanding that the Rockford Housing Authority was going to be reimbursing. Yes, and that's... So you say here that we have an increase of $775,000 with reductions to the $205,000. Right. And the increase of RHA. Right. Okay.
 So where does their contribution come in? That's a net number. That's a net number. So the reimbursement for police services is a combination of the money we receive from District 205 and the money we will receive from RHA. Where do we see that on this report? What that number would be? The only number that's listed in that PowerPoint is the change. Okay.
 The actual budgeted number, I can send you those details so that you can see what the breakdown is by 205 and RHA. So I understand that after all the netting is done, it's going to cost us $775,000 more to facilitate the RHA. Okay.
 services? We will add $775,000 in expense on the expense side in the police department, including additional staff, but that is reimbursed. Both of those contracts, we budget as 100% reimbursement. So there's no net effect on the budget. We have an increase in expense and an increase in revenue.
 Yes. So the increase in the income match? Yes, the increase in expense and the increase in revenue both match. Then how do we have a net? The net change from 2015 to 20, I'm sorry, from 2016 to 2017 is $775,000 because we have a decrease in the school and we add the RHA.
 But then those staffing levels are reflected in the police expenses. Any other questions? Okay, so we'll move on to some positive news, property tax. So again, this is just sort of general overview on property taxes, so I'll move quickly through this in case you have, unless you have questions. So we have two variables affecting the property tax bill. One is the amount of the levy, and two is the equalized assessed value.
 So that EAV distributes the tax burden among all of the taxpayers. So the rate is determined by dividing the total levy by the EAV, which is a third of market value. And then the property tax bill gets calculated by taking the rate times the EAV, and that gives you an individual's tax liability rate.
 So, PTEL or tax caps limits how much the city may levy. There are certain portions of the levy that are exempt. Debt service is one voter approved debt issues, like our CIP debt, the eight million or so that we were issuing every year before the CIP sales tax was approved. Those are above or outside of PTEL.
 There's also a portion of the fire pension expense that is outside of PTEL when the benefit was approved by the state. They specifically said that this will be outside of tax caps. The law doesn't cap individuals' property tax bills, just the general increase that the city is allowed to take.
 So the levy growth is limited by the lesser CPI, which was 0.7% for 2016, or 5%. It would be great if we were there, but we're not. New property, and this is due to annexations and new construction, is $3.2 million.
 And then we had three TIFs expire, expiring in 2016. So that value, that increment growth from the time the TIF was put in place until now, that comes back on our property tax assessment. So the east side, west side, and 7th Street TIFs added $11.1 million in value to the city and to the rest of the taxing bodies in the area. Yeah.
 At a maximum, our total property tax levy will decrease 4% from 2015. You can see the big driver there is the debt service. We are retiring another CAP debt issue. 2016 will be the last year that we levy for CAP debt. That $871,500 that we have listed there for 2016 is the last payment that we'll make.
 for CAP debt. So next, for the 2017 levy, we will not have a levy for debt service. So it will continue to decline there. The total rate decreases 2.9% due to the increase in EAV. So you can see on the operations side, we have a small increase, 0.8%. On the debt service side, we have a very large decrease of 66%.
 So the total rate goes from 3.3595 to 3.2611. And again, this is all based on initial estimates from the assessor's office on values. We should have those final numbers shortly. And this slide just shows the relationship between EAV and the rate. So as you can see, as the rate decline, I'm sorry, as the EAV declines, the rate climbs, because you have less value
 to disperse that total levy amongst. So the positive news for 2016 is we start to see a small increase in the EAV, and we see a corresponding decrease in the total rate. So that's actually a gap. That has to be made up. Not necessarily a gap. So they're inversely related. So as the EAV declines...
 your denominator in that formula gets smaller. So your levy will continue to grow or at least stay the same. So you're dividing that by a smaller number, so that makes the rate higher. So as the EAV increases and the levy stays the same or increases very slightly, the rate at the end of that formula, we'll go back to that slide just to show you
 how that formula is calculated. Well, I guess what I'm saying is the reason why the citizens were complaining that the values were down and the tax rates up, and we actually never raised the tax.
 We didn't raise the levy. Because the levy is because of the gap between one number and the other. Yeah, the rate goes up because the EAV here, the number that you're dividing the total levy by, if this stays the same...
 and this declines, the rate's going to continue to increase. Because you need to charge a higher rate to get to the same total levy. So for 2016, for the 2016 levy, this number is finally getting bigger. For the first time since 2009, we've had EAV declines. So as this number gets bigger, and this number either stays the same or drops, like we're seeing in 2016,
 that rate gets lower. So then for an individual, you have a lower rate times your EAV, you might see a slight increase in your EAV depending on where you live, your individual circumstances, that rate times your EAV is gonna give you your total property taxes due. So because we are non-home rule, we levy based on a series of funds or categories.
 You can see on this chart here, we have a lot of different individual funds that we levy for. The general fund levies are in the top half there of the chart. Corporate, police, fire, school crossing guard, risk management, and street and bridge. We are facing issues with rate limits.
 in a number of those, including corporate, police and fire protection, and street and bridge. The second half there are levies for specific purposes, sanitation, sanitarium, library, and then reimbursement, the IMRF, unemployment and workers' comp, and auditing all reimburse the operating departments. Those eventually get counted as general fund revenue. So as you can see, the city-only portion of the levy there
 The rate is 3.2284 is what we project. Yes? 3.3, I'm sorry, 3.3595. Not bad. You're reaching our limits. We are at our limits. And if you flip to the next slide.
 So, some of these funds that we levy for specific purposes, obviously the corporate levy is the most flexible. We can use it for any general city purpose. Police and fire protection are intended to fund those specific activities. Street and bridge, the same maintenance of our roadways. So, those rates are all limited by state law. We can't have a rate over
 for example, .435 cents for corporate purposes. And we are at that rate, and we have been for several years. The good thing is that with EAV continuing to increase, those rates will continue to come down. So,
 As long as we continue to have EAV growth, which we expect to, that is the advice we're getting from the assessor's office, the pressure on those limited rates will alleviate. Yes? The EAV is what they say your property is worth. Correct. And that is coming up. Yes. Yes.
 I guess I need to call the Assessor's office. My address keeps coming down and down and down and getting less and less. It's not growing. Nobody in my neighborhood, their EAV is coming up. Their property is still declining. So whose property is coming up, though? Well, I think generally we've had sort of a bottoming out of a number of the foreclosures. That activity seems to have let up considerably since 2009.
 Some of those properties are being purchased now and rehabilitated. Our property tax rebate program that the city council approved, we've seen really great interest in individual homeowners purchasing and rehabbing those foreclosure properties.
 So there's a number of issues that factor into that total EAV. And a specific neighborhood, my assessed value dropped too. But as a whole, the city is experiencing a slight increase, and they expect going forward based on sales data that it will continue to increase. So again, just budget implications of the property tax.
 Finally, an increase in the EAV for the first time since 2009. That increase in the pension contributions allow us to shift levy amounts from risk management to the pensions and that funds general operations. So that's a positive thing for the general fund. And again, continued growth in EAV will alleviate some of that pressure on the limited rates and give us more flexibility with the property tax levy.
 So that's overview of property taxes. Any other questions on that? Yes. Yes. Yes, we are funding to the state minimum level, which, to use some actuarial terms, is 90% funded, and we use a calculation method called PUC, which is PUC,
 It's a method that sort of back loads the liability of the employee to the end of their career. But we are funding to that actuarial calculation, which is the minimum required by the state, we're funding at that level.
 I will note, though, that our unfunded liability has continued to grow in the fund. And if you look at the actuarial reports that were distributed a couple weeks ago, you can take a look at that, what our unfunded liability and our funded percent continues to decline. We had a really bad year on investment returns for both funds in 2015. Yes, please.
 I don't remember off the top of my head, but those, the memo, there's a memo that was distributed and there should be a table in that that breaks it down. Yep. I'll just jump in on that. One of the things, because I know that there's a comment made earlier on that, because we're making this actuarial adjustment based upon mortality tables. People are going to be living longer, so we need to put more money into the pensions. We're going to make this adjustment for about $3 million. Is that going to make us good going forward?
 Yes, but that's based upon getting roughly 7 percent return on our investments. So the same stock market fluctuation, then that's just stock market, bond market, all the things that we invest in. So if we have a good year, we do better. If we have a poor year, we do poorer. So year to year, there's still some potential for volatility for things that are completely outside of our control. Okay. Any other questions on the levy?
 Okay, well, we're just moving right through this. Hopefully we can get you guys out of here early. The next thing we wanted to cover was, operationally, some of the issues that our departments are facing, what's driving service levels. So we have, obviously, as we just discussed, the first major operational challenge is pension funding. So in 2017, obviously, you raised $3 million.
 Results for 2018 show a 6.5% increase in cost. There's significant pressure on funds statewide and I think nationally to reduce investment return assumptions, as Alderman Goetzsch just mentioned. The city currently uses 7.5% investment return assumption. And historically, over the last 20 years, if you look at both of the funds,
 we have met that 7.5% investment return. Because of the restrictions that the funds have on how they can invest their funds, there are a number of investment professionals that recommend that that 7.5% is not attainable. And as you can, you know, there was major news about the,
 the teachers retirement system, reducing their investment return assumptions and the additional costs that that put on the state to fund that change in assumption. So we would have a similar result if the city was to change that investment return assumption for our pension funds.
 But as I've, you know, just mentioning making you aware, there is a lot of pressure from the funds, from external groups throughout the state and throughout the country to adjust those rate of return assumptions downward.
 We also, again, as I mentioned, we use what's called PUC. It's called Planned Unit Contribution Method to calculate liability.
 What's more commonly used throughout pension funds in the state is a method called entry-age normal that sort of equalizes the liability related to that employee over the life of their employment. So you have a more level funding
 instead of what we use now, PUC, which sort of end loads that. So essentially, right now we're taking lower required contribution amounts, and that will catch up to us later. If we were using the entry-age normal actuarial method, we would have an increase, but that would be more level throughout
 the funding period for the pension funds. So that's another actuarial assumption where we're getting some pressure to make some adjustments. So just...
 For your information, the 2018 number, the actuarial study that we just received and was distributed to you all, that includes a 7.5% rate of return and is calculated at that PUC with that PUC calculation method. Yes? I understand. Similar to like student loans that we're using right now like a graduated plan. Essentially, yes. Okay. Okay.
 And just to sort of illustrate the pension issue, the bars in this graph show the total general fund expense, budget expense, and how that's risen since 2004. The line shows the growth in the pension contribution amount. So you can see we have periods of steady expense, some small increases throughout that time period.
 And in 2013, you see a drop in the pension contribution amount. That's when the state changed the pension law, reset the time frame that you have to pay your unfunded liability, and allowed us to move to that PUC method. So our contribution requirement declined in 2013. But as you can see, that was sort of a temporary relief measure that the state put in place
 As you can see, it has just climbed dramatically since then and certainly is not keeping pace with the rest of the expenses in the general fund. The next issue that was raised with the department's... Based on 7.5%. Yes. So on this rate of return issue, I just wanted to add just a touch of perspective. The teacher's retirement service pensions that Carrie mentioned,
 In 2000, as late as 2012, there is some assumed rate of return was 8.5% and they moved it to 8. And then in 2014, they moved it from 8 to 7.5 and now they're moving it from 7.5 to 7. And this is not unlike a number of other pensions that are more contemporaries. Other units of government throughout the state had much higher rate of returns historically than the city of Rockford did.
 So we kind of led for a long time at 7.5%. Many other places were 8% and 9% and 10% while we were at 7.5%, which put pressure on our annual contributions but showed the stewardship and why up until very recently we kind of held the fork compared to many other communities throughout the state as far as our funding percentages.
 But this crush of reality of a number of different factors has caused a number of entities to basically pass us up, like the teachers' retirement system, which is now at 7% rate of return. So you can see that up until very recently, our pension boards and our city council –
 kind of led in this arena from a responsibility perspective. But now we've got to realize these adjustments, not only the ones that we can internally adjust, like a rate of return assumption, which is, you know, a mutual decision, but basically the pension boards and the city kind of work together on that, and your finance department does a great job there. But this pressure isn't going to go away. There's a couple of life rafts coming our way, like, for instance,
 Police and firefighters have, we have their own experience with their life expectancies and the actuarial services as Kerry mentioned a couple weeks ago. They're going to put together a study on police and firefighters so that our assumptions about their longevity are corrected by the reality we see in the world today. That may create another adjustment on us or it may ease some of the adjustments that might have come our way otherwise. So this pension crisis isn't going away anytime soon.
 It will likely cause some more funding spikes to come our way. I think if you look back on our history, like I said, we've kind of led the way from a rate of return position, but now we're kind of falling behind the curve a little bit of other communities. And as we change that number, if we do, that will put funding pressure on our funds. But I didn't want to go unmarked the fact that our finance department and pension boards and city council
 have been in a pretty good place over time compared to our contemporaries. And the entire state is under a lot of pressure, not just the state systems, but all of our other municipal entities out there. We're all in the same, you know, pending set of funding spikes coming our way going forward. Thank you. And if I could just add one thing on that. Someone who I've always enjoyed following investments and stock markets,
 Going even through the 90s, when I first started coming out of college and started looking at saving for my retirement, any financial professional would tell you to assume about 10%. That's what you saw from Great Depression up through the 90s into the first part of this century is you would average about 10% if you invested reasonably in the markets.
 Then when the Great Recession came around, there was the huge drop. But then there was also the somewhat expected very large recovery in the market. And then, in my opinion, really the last year and a half, two years, you've seen a lot of volatility. And just in my study of it, that volatility is what's new. That's what's driving the uncertainty. So things like we're seeing a lot slower growth.
 a lot slower growth in that. There's a very good article on the Saturday essay in the Wall Street Journal that talks about that, how we've been seeing really for the last 50 years about 3 percent growth nationally. Now we're really seeing only about 1, 2 percent and that may last a little bit longer. So I think that there's some changes in the
 that we're just now noticing and becoming aware of and to piggyback on what Attorney Hayes has said is it's not something that we sat down here in 2013, we should have been like 70% what are you guys doing? No, it was that this is something that's new and something we need to plan for and it's not in my opinion a reflection on any estimates that were made previously.
 And I just want to point out too that with the pension funds, you know, we want to take a long view. We don't want to react to every annual fluctuation in the market. You know, we have one year of bad investment returns. It's going to get factored into our actuarial analysis. It's going to affect how much the city has to contribute. But all of that is done over a smoothing period. It's time.
 You know, the pension funds have been around for a long time. We have very mature plans. We don't need to react immediately to market fluctuations. So, you know, the 7.5%, like I said, we've met that over the past 20 years. The question is...
 can we continue to meet that over the next 20 years? And, you know, that's something that we will continue to monitor as staff. The pension fund boards are most definitely paying attention to, and, you know, we'll continue to come to you all with recommendations on how to responsibly fund the pensions going forward. Your reports show in percentage...
 the amount we pay out each year in our pension? Yeah, the expense in the funds is listed in that actuarial report. It's also in the budget. We have budgeted expense for each fund. It's a little over a million dollars a month for each fund in payroll expense. So of the millions we had in the fund, what percentage is that? In other words, are we spending out more than 7.5% of our total fund each year?
 Yes, because our, you know, well, at least for 2015 results, our unfunded liability grew. So we're paying out more than we're contributing ultimately. So, but the funding is a combination of investment returns, gain on the sale of assets, and
 contributions from the employees and contributions from the city. So all of those pieces come together, and as we get to full staffing in the police department, for example, we'll have more planned participants paying into the fund. So there's a lot of factors to consider there when you're looking at the total funding picture.
 But there is detail in the proposed budget book that you have in front of you in the non-operating section on the pension fund's expense and revenue. So, again, staffing pressure. One of the most prevalent themes that we saw across all of the departments was that we're staffed just to keep our heads above water. We have...
 As you can see, since 2008, when we began to see some staffing reductions related to the housing market crash and our corresponding reduction in revenues, we have lost 72 employees in the general fund, a total decrease of 9%.
 And as you can imagine, calls for service since 2008 have not declined 9%. So every employee is doing more than they were in 2008. I think in a lot of instances it's probably not a bad thing, but the calls for service and the demands for staff to respond to new challenges continues to grow, and the
 the resources to support that are just not there. Yes, sir. And I'm saying that that is really a growing problem. Yeah. Because what I'm hearing, at least around our ward, is almost a growing apathy.
 is the fact that on one hand, the general public's encouraged to call. On the other hand, they're learning that they're not getting responses. And they're always told there's a priority to understand this because the money's not there. Right. So there's got to be something done to figure a different way out to meet –
 a reasonable expectation for people who are told to call and then told we can't come. Sure, sure. I had a gentleman the other day that was talking about the fact that he was open his garage door, turned around, and someone stole his lawn mower. They said, did you call the police? He said, it doesn't do any good. They're not going to come out at all. Now, that's not . . . Sure, sure. So, but there it is in living color right here when you see it. Yeah.
 So maybe in another discussion, we really need to discuss, you know, if something needs to change in our budget, to give them the tools that we expect them to do. Right. Thank you. Yes. Okay, in the same vein, I received a call from a resident two days ago. She had her cell phone and wallet stolen. It was a combo. And when she called the police department, she was told it would be seven days before someone would be out.
 That's a scary thought. And I'm not putting any pressure on the police department. I don't. Sure. But that shows that the people that are working for us are working at the max. Right. As far as what I feel. Right. But how do you explain to a resident that they're not working for you?
 What do you mean it's going to take seven days to get a report? Yeah. So we've got to help out some way. Yeah. And I think, I mean, that's perfect evidence, right? And I think over that time period, you know, since 2008, we've made it easier than ever for people to report issues, to lodge complaints. But we haven't provided the resources yet
 to respond. And, you know, I think that this table here shows that so clearly, how staffing has been impacted. You know, you look, police department thankfully is the least impacted, 2% reduction over that time period.
 But you look at a department like community development or public works, where we have a huge volume and a huge variety of complaints that they're addressing, and looking at 31% and 25% decreases in staffing, it's just impossible to keep up with the demand.
 That wouldn't necessarily indicate that. Well, and I think... Because it looks like they're, what they have agreed to do over the course of time, they're doing. Right. Because, well, I think part of that, you know, we found ways to work smarter since 2008 as well, right? So, you know, necessity is the mother of invention. If you have all of these complaints coming in and you don't have the staff to fulfill all of those requests,
 in the way that we used to, you find new ways to respond, right? But that said, I think you hit sort of a saturation point with that, where, you know, at the end of the day, you can only find so many innovative ways to fill a pothole, right? And you have to either adjust your expectations on what the response is going to be, or you need to add capacity, right?
 So, you know, I think potholes are maybe not necessarily the best example because we've had significant capital investment over this time period as well with the CIP sales tax, which has reduced our demand on filling potholes. But you look at code enforcement complaints, you know, it's the same argument there. You either add capacity or you change expectations. Yeah.
 Well, then we really need to compliment our employees because look at these Rockstead reports. I mean, it looks like they're really, by and large, doing what they agreed to do. And I would agree wholeheartedly that the operational departments do an amazing job of getting work done. I do think, though, with regard to – I don't know if my mic's on. Okay. Okay.
 I do think we really need to manage the response rates. And I've talked to Chief O'Shea about this. But we really need to work together collectively with 911 as well as our management staff at the police about this.
 working on developing better customer service standards based upon priority than they are now. And I think that's something that you're going to see us working on. I just – he sent me something the other day about response rates based upon call priority. And we do have staffing issues there, but I think we can work on developing some better responses.
 to citizens as well as providing some better customer service standards saying this is, you know, a lower level issue, we'll be there in three days, or it's a high priority, this is what our goal is. And, you know, we've gone through this exercise with the fire department at length, and it's part of our accreditation now. But we really need to drill deeper on the police side with that.
 Okay, so, when I have constituents call with things like my garage got broke into and they're not gonna come for seven days, I tell them that they can go down to the public safety building at the port that day. Is that something that the police, I don't think they're telling them that when they're calling the non-emergency number. And also, just to relay my personal interest story,
 The other night there was a few, well, every night. This was just the night I decided to call. But there's always groups of men drinking out on Broadway and causing problems and being drunk and throwing bottles around and so...
 The reason I decided to call the other night was because it was right out front of my place and was making my dog bark and they were throwing their 40 ounces at cars going by and being really loud and obnoxious. And so about 45 minutes later I got a call back from the staff sergeant or whatever they call that guy who's on the commander and said that, you know,
 just wanted to make sure that they were still out there and to kind of discern the severity. Because there was 14 calls ahead of it, ahead of that call, that were probably even more important than that.
 That's just my personal interest story. It's one thing to have your garage broken into. It's after the fact. There's nothing that the police can really do at that point other than write up a report. But there's people making phone calls for sure just like that where there's something that is happening right now and it's continuing to happen and we can't get a response on it.
 You know, obviously Broadway is a much rougher part of town, but I can see how, you know, it's the broken windows theory when we can't address drunken disorderly behavior that's interfering with traffic flow, you know, and it just seems to be that spreading now. Carjacked at Woodman's and etc. I mean, the truth of the matter is there's only so many out in the street, period.
 And when you get a serious call, they're gone to that call. So, I mean, it's a problem. Jim, I'm glad to hear you talk about wanting to address that issue. And, I mean, some of us would be happy to participate in that. But in spite of it, we've got to do something different to improve the customer service that we're paying for. So, anyway, thank you.
 Actually, I think our customer service can be improved if our violent crime were addressed appropriately and not by our police, but by our state's attorney. Because if they were doing their job and if they were locking up these criminals, the shooter at Cherryvale is probably out.
 Okay? The people that just committed the shooting at the clock tower will probably be out. Okay? So, it's not our police problem. It's our state's attorney problem. And if they're unwilling to prosecute or they lack the gumption to prosecute, then our police will never be available for those, what we consider minor calls, the drunken disorderly. We've got shootings all over.
 But we're finding that these are the people that were out a month, you know, were picked up a month ago for a shooting and let go. And they're continuing to do it. And so maybe what we ought to do is a better question is instead of looking at ways to improve our department, and I know our department can use an overhaul in some areas because nobody's perfect. Maybe we ought to get Joe Brescato.
 And maybe we ought to sit down and ask for the truth, actual numbers, because when I've got numbers, I know from him, I know they were untrue. He'll deny it, but maybe we need a whole new change. Maybe we as city government ought to put our foot where the sun don't shine.
 Because you can't have a repeat felon get picked up and out in a day with minimal bond. We've got a three-strike law here in Illinois.
 Why do we have five-time felons out here on the street? So instead of maybe bashing that, and I know you don't want to hurt people's feelings because some love Joe Briscato and will stand behind him. He's part of the problem. His state's attorney's office is part of the problem. So take off those colored glasses and let's get down to business and let's get him.
 And let's really do some work because we're never going to, the police can pick them up, bring them. That's it. Yeah. If they're right back out on the street, they're going to continue to demand service from the police department. Yeah. Absolutely. All the time. Go. In the conversation with the chief and addressing the timeline.
 and calls. In that conversation, could you have a discussion on to look at the time, the amount of time and the amount that our officers are at the big box ticket stores and all the time and energy that we put forth in there? You know, we've moved to individuals being responsible for security in their state auditions. I think we need to move to
 for looking at how we're addressing the retail theft. And two and three cars is located at the Walmarts and stores. And the other thing is also look at putting on community service officers in the evening.
 to where a lot of things occur that can't be addressed with the garage and writing the reports and those type of things. Just my two cents. Officer Andy Perino, who is our community service officer, already started what is called the Big Business Association. He has touched base with every major retailer big box store.
 He has started them with an association of their own to teach them that they can get security. They can't rely on the police to keep coming for the repeat things that are happening. And he said that he is noticing a drop because he has gathered them together.
 So I think everyone should give, you know, Officer Perino a call because he has started that and that's been going maybe for the last two, three months. And so they have a meeting with him and they've started like this connection tree for these businesses so that when they know, you know, they have the camera catches the criminal, they pass that on to other stores. And this was all done.
 by Officer Perino. And so I think the alderman should give him a call. Because what he has accomplished, I don't think anybody else has accomplished. He's like a little pig bull. He gets on the ankle and he got them together. So please give him a call. And he'll really explain everything. He is marvelous at what he has done. And he's my community service officer. Okay.
 Okay, so speaking of all of those service calls to Walmart and the big box stores, is there a way like we charge bars for so many calls, can we look at actually charging Walmart or the big box stores for those kind of calls when they exceed a reasonable amount? The Walmarts, I don't see why we have to support the security of Walmart to the extent we do
 all service are actually going to those kind of places. Is that something that we could look into legally? We have actually recently looked at the potential of using our nuisance abatement authority to do just that. There has been precedent in other cities where they've declared a nuisance and fined
 big box retail outlets, you know, due to this. But it's not just a problem here. It's a problem all over relative to, you know, we can't be their private security. They need to make sure that they provide the tools. And, you know, as I talked with Chief O'Shea, they've been very cooperative over the last year. So anytime we can have them deploy better technology and they can share that technology with us, it's going to be better. But we are looking into that.
 If I could jump in here, all our staff are hired by the security. And typically the calls that we're getting from them is more so when they have subjects in the company. So the retail staff calls for service where there's not anyone in custody are typically referred to the deferred police reporting system by which one of the civilian employees will call the bank and take the report home.
 versus having an officer respond out there to take that call. Some of them are pretty good, too, about sending their employees in and managers in to come to the front desk to file those reports so there's not actually having to discuss them. Well, why can't their private security transport those people to the police station, you know, to eliminate the need for that?
 so they don't have the ability to do that. They can't transport them from the location at which they have them. Okay, so what kind of language would we need to approve in order to begin to charge for those transports after a certain level? Can we have staff craft some language for us to actually vote on at some point, similar to how we charge bars and restaurants?
 when they have more than 10 calls of service per year or whatever that is? With regard to our ability to use our liquor licensing authority under Illinois law, which is a broad grant of authority, and allows us to address issues related to the service of liquor, we don't have, in my view, such a broad grant of authority in picking and choosing retailers.
 There is some move statewide on big box stores and this idea of an imposition of a nuisance. There's some other states that are doing nuisance charges back. With our limitations of being a non-home rule community in Illinois, we struggle to find a direct statutory provision that would allow us to address this. We could attempt to use our nuisance authority and put together a record over time that would allow us to address these situations in a way that you suggest.
 When we use our nuisance authority, as we've done on many occasions and successfully, we face challenges in the court system from time to time. But those would be a pretty limited set of options. I think that...
 A direct grant to state's authority gives us assurance that we have the authority to act and that's why we act much more aggressively in the liquor environment. In this environment, it would take some careful consideration of whether we can put together a nuisance case and deal with the specific issues in that fashion. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion on it. But I think we should also include the bars as well as other establishments because there's
 There's a lot of calls that doesn't have anything to do with liquor license, frequent calls. Another one I can think of would be our larger housing complexes that we're there constantly and we've gone tit for tat with the housing authority and it's costing us more money to police and I understand we're under discussion with providing security that they will be paying for. I would hope.
 that we include all phases of the charges for services to those complexes. Thank you. Anything else on this topic? Hearing none, Chief? Chief?
 One thing from mentioned earlier about the 911 Center, we do advise the callers that they can go to the public safety to file a report. And then we also give callbacks. So if we have call pending, we will call and update them that we still have your call, that we're estimating about 30 minutes to an hour, just so the citizens have some idea of a time frame. Because in that late afternoon and early evening hours, it does get busy. So part of our customer service is that we do give them updates of,
 you know, delays in the calls. But they're very diligent about that, same as the men and women for the police department out there when they have a large and ordinate amount of calls that come in, we have to prioritize them based on the severity. And a lot of times individuals aren't happy and we just try to give them as much information as we can. So what I'd like to do is take a 15 minute recess. Everybody can take a little break. I will be banging that gavel in 15 minutes, so please be back.
 As you can see, public safety is a bigger piece of the total puzzle there as well. One of the other recurring themes as far as challenges to the departments, besides not having sufficient staff to keep up with demand, is that there are requests or requirements to do more.
 In police department, we've got significant additional demands on the detective bureau. There's new requirements for types of interviews that must be recorded, which takes extra time, extra resources. In addition, investigations using social media have grown substantially, and that takes specialized training and a significant additional amount of time. In the traffic division,
 is really staffed only enough to respond to accidents, not to have any sort of proactive response to reducing accidents, things like speed enforcement, things of that nature, that help reduce the total number of accidents. Is there a problem with the freezing? Is there a problem with that? Is that an issue? We are doing it.
 With fuel prices, we're seeing more vehicle miles traveled. So with that, we're seeing more accidents. There really isn't a large trend of certain clusters of accidents. Other than what we see every year, we have a high probability of accidents at the state and Alpine locations, state and Perryville, but we don't have a real trend. A lot of our fatalities, for instance, are all over. Thank you.
 They're really not related to infrastructure, more reckless driving. But I think one of the things that we're looking at is when we have accident reconstruction, that is a real drain on our resources. I think the chief is trying to find more opportunities to do radar enforcement, and that's where those type of proactive activities where we haven't been able to get to. Yes. Yes.
 Do you feel with the reformation, I don't know what other word to use, of the traffic division in the recent O'Shea's administration that you're going to see an improvement in being able to do other than just respond to accidents?
 Yes, I do think so. In addition, I think there's some things on the public works infrastructure side that we can do relative to traffic signal interconnectivity, as well as the fact that we'll have our new District 3 station at Newtown. The vast majority of traffic-related reporting or tickets happen in District 3. I think that's going to be...
 good savings for not only our staff but for citizens that want to go and file a report. I'll pose this question, but what is the return on investment for our traffic division when they are providing tickets to individuals? Because quite honestly, I don't see nearly as many officers as you once did. Sure. And that's a complaint you often hear from residents that the city could get rich if they just in
 Right, more tickets, yeah. Can you walk through that a little bit? Well, the city collects a portion. Obviously, the county collects fines on our behalf.
 They remit those receipts back to the city. It is shown in your budget as revenue in the police department, but nowhere near close to funding the traffic division, obviously. I think that we've had a decline in revenue collection on the magistrate fines. That's what we call it in the budget, magistrate fines revenue over.
 2016 and we're projecting a small decline for 2017, we had a couple of really superstar DUI enforcement officers retire. And it's amazing how much those retirements have really affected our collections.
 That said, you know, certainly writing more tickets is going to generate more revenue, but I don't think we'll ever get at a point where it's self-sustaining. If I could just kind of get on that, I would discourage looking at fines and fees, but particularly fines as a revenue source. The fines are there to influence behavior. Right. So if you make the fine big enough, if a speeding ticket is $1,000, right,
 then literally no one will speed and you'll have a debt revenue of zero. So you're not going to be able to fund yourself anyway. So the fine is doing its job and driving behavior is going to drive itself out of business. Thank you. Alderman Thompson Kelly. I totally agree with you, but the fact of the matter is that we don't stop believing we're going to continue to put more resources at the tail end instead of at the front end. But my question is, and please someone help me understand this better,
 drug seizure money. In the past, that the police department would take it and apply it to its budget. Do we know what that dollar amount is for, so far, for 2016? And could we take that dollar, legally,
 and put it into the operating cost of the police department instead of extra things that has been applied to in the past? Sure, yes. And the forfeiture funds are available for policing activity. There's slightly different rules between state asset forfeiture funds and federal asset forfeiture funds, but both can be used for operational purposes.
 We have traditionally used those funds because it's an unpredictable revenue source. We have used those for expenses above and beyond regular budgeted operating expenses, but that is a possibility. We can get information for you on the balance, the available balance, and what we expect to take in for 2016. Maybe the legal department can maybe correct me on this.
 The bond money, does all of the bond money go to Winnebago County or do we get a portion of that bond, those bond dollars where our officers arrest, process? So, bond funds as opposed to fines and costs. Fines and costs goes to Winnebago County. There's a piece of the fines and costs come back to the city of Rockford on certain criminal outcomes and certain
 traffic offenses and things like that. But the bond, like a bond to be released from custody, most of that money flows either back to the defendant or to fines and costs. So it's the fines and costs that get distributed.
 In the criminal realm, we don't get as much of a quotient of the fines as we might in a traffic offense. But there is an element of criminal fines that we do get. It's not as significant as what we get out of traffic offenses. So that dollar amount, I think, is...
 around a million dollars a year. I haven't looked at that revenue source in a while, but I think that's been relatively stable except for, in general, the imposition of traffic tickets has been down, not just in our municipality, but nationwide. And we're just recently seeing that pick back up a little bit, so that revenue stream's been under some pressure. So why is it, where is it in this presentation
 those dollars accounted for? They're included in the general fund revenue in other. Our magistrate fines are counted under intergovernmental revenue, or I'm sorry, under fines and fees. So it's not necessarily singled out specifically in the presentation, but it is listed under other. And if you look in your budget book, there is a dollar amount budgeted there for on the revenue side. You're welcome.
 Yes. Okay. On the 2017 revenue, would that fall under the other? I believe so. I think that's not one of the categories that we have broken out specifically. Yeah. So fees, fines, you know, it would be included in that other category. Yep. Yep. Thank you.
 Okay, so beyond the police department, fire department, obviously we've had an increase in suppression calls and RC investigations for vacant structures, some non-vacant structures as well. Fire department's been busy addressing those demands. Another growing concern is maintaining an effective response force for all geographic areas of the city.
 making sure that our resources are deployed in such a fashion that we can meet our response times no matter where the call comes from. Yes? It's the demolition, about needing more demolitions throughout the years. This just, you know, adds to that. Sure. We have, you know, what kind of, comparatively, you know, if we...
 increase our demolitions of these vacant structures, will that show a savings in the arson investment? Yeah. Well, I think that we don't often incur significant expense outside of personnel. I think we have the big –
 We had one investigation that had some significant testing type expenses, but really we have arson investigators on staff.
 We have suppression personnel that are going to be there no matter what to respond to that fire. One concern is workers' comp claims and injuries that can happen in these vacant structures that are generally not very well maintained, a little more difficult to navigate, and the likelihood of an injury occurring in that kind of a situation is greater, I believe.
 But, you know, ultimately, oftentimes these vacant structures where an arson occurs, we end up completing a demolition anyway. So, and then that cost, because we have an emergency demolition that occurs, you know, that cost is borne by the city until, you know, we'll lien the property, but until there's some sort of property transfer, we generally don't recover those funds, unless there's insurance available. Okay.
 Okay. I think I'm following what Alderman Elliott is saying also. But in a fire, we have fire personnel that is there and that's a cost to that structure. Then in addition, the city is demoing that. So we have a double cost to the city for that.
 The structure, which if we had demoed it to begin with two weeks before that, we'd only have the demo cost. Right. But the suppression people are going to be on staff anyway. So unless you have to call in additional staff to respond, you've got suppression staff that are paying to be there in case of fire. So it's sort of a sunk cost. It's a cost that's there whether they're responding to a call or not. If I could jump into just another, although obviously on the books, I think
 the cost is not significant. Where the real cost is just the risk to our firefighters. Sure. So just to echo on, I really supported Alderman Elliott's efforts for championing demolitions. I think the last couple of years we've gotten to the point that our ability to demolish properties has increased.
 been what's limited us, not the funding that we have to go out there and do that. So I'm looking at, as we get to the session, we start talking about upcoming council requests. I think the council is still aligned for allocating money to go out and make sure we're doing demolitions. We've seen a lot of economic growth in areas where we've taken down these vacant homes, and so it's a great...
 I think a great path we put ourselves on and started back in our, you know, the first budget Cyclades are a part of with the input from Alderman Elliott and Alderman Hervey. So I really thank you for that.
 I think, you know, just another issue to point out besides the potential risk to the firefighters is the risk to surrounding properties as well. You know, the vacant home catches on fire. Does that spread to the home next to it? So, Chief, I don't know if you have anything to add to that. The part of the debate is that these two are tied in together is the demand for calls for service and all about, Elliot, we're there anyway. But when these calls come in, it takes us away from being able to respond to other parts of the case.
 Great. I have a question.
 if that makes sense. It just says to me that we need to continue to focus our attention
 And I think the drain of vacant properties is felt in all of the, you know, in a lot of the operating departments. You have code enforcement issues, you have police response issues, you have fire issues. So I would agree wholeheartedly that addressing that and the demands for service that come from that vacant housing stock is one of the, certainly one of the drivers here.
 What are we doing or how much in legal are we enforcing and going after these individuals? How are we stopping the bleeding as far as the trickle down effect that is affecting the budget and affecting all the departments in the city? What are we doing? And I understand that it takes a process and it takes a long process, but what are we doing to stop the bleeding on the front end? So,
 It's a complex environment and as quick as I can be sometimes with my responses, I wanted to consider it for a moment.
 It's a very difficult environment. What do we do on the front end of abandoned homes? We have a robust system of property standards enforcement to try to catch those homes on the way down. A lot of times these homes are from people who are walking away from their financial responsibilities on the biggest asset in their life, and they're not too concerned with a couple of fines from the municipality.
 What we're finding is the fines that we do impose wind up being a lingering negative impact and an onus on new property owners that might revitalize the property. And so we've taken a number of matters before the city council to see fine reductions on certain properties because many of our fines attach to the property and not the owner.
 And so what we're finding on the back end of some of these is that there's a better economic case to be made for the city to recognize the problems
 that the fines we might impose on the standards are merely an impediment to revival of property, and the city council supported us in reducing those fines. So it's one of the areas where we're looking at on a case-by-case basis taking these things on. For the most part, most of these egregious homes where we're tearing them down, there's nobody to go get. There's nobody with any financial wherewithal to pay a fine to go find them yet.
 And the process to go find and get the rare people who might have some money is pretty tough. So we're working on those things. In one way, you know, I was talking to Todd yesterday about trying to shift our fast-track demolition process. For many years, we did a very few number of homes, and so they were really the worst of the worst. And just getting them flat was a huge accomplishment, and that was a good outcome. But now –
 We're seeing much more homes being demolished. So we're looking at trying to gain control of those homes before they're torn down to reduce the back-end foreclosure process, make it more efficient, and have more control and potentially some more options like...
 getting control of a home and maybe divesting it to an entity or individuals that would rehab it rather than demolish it. So as we move through the worst of the worst in the housing stock, we're looking at changing our methods to get the back end back to a vital contributing asset of a home owned, hopefully owner occupied, and back on the tax rolls, rather than just keep making flat lots that we have to go mow.
 And so on the flat lots that we have to go mow, we're looking at ways, and Todd put together with the West Gateway Coalition a program this year. We've got RCI in our community bringing things to bear as far as, you know, they've contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars to demolish homes. And so we're coming at it with a number of different tools now.
 So as far as going finding the responsible parties, oftentimes we're finding people with no capacity to satisfy fines in any way. And so we're looking for those recoveries, but it's where that we will find success there. Alderman Connors?
 So how can we become proactive before we get to that point that they actually have to be demolished? So if we know that obviously they're probably already have code enforcement coming out. So we basically know it. I understand we don't have enough employees. Is that the problem? Or how do we become proactive if we're reactive so that if we are refining people, they're already there and we're already in the process?
 of it. And we basically know what the outcome is going to be, but we're there closer to the beginning than fixing it.
 I think Director Cagnoni will tell you about our efforts to interdict and help people. We do have a number of programs where if somebody wants to exert some responsible homeownership, we try to help them. I'll let Todd answer the question, if you don't mind, more directly on what we're doing on the front end side with properties standards. Thank you, Director Hayes. Thank you.
 As stated, that early warning system as it relates to properties that are going to go into a blighting condition is an important factor, and we identified that through our report with the Center for Community Progress. And how do we engage the neighborhood groups at a better level to inform them of what tools are available? We have our own rehab programs that are available so that
 we have attached that to our code enforcement efforts. So when we're sending a notice of building code violation, we're also making them aware of the tools that we have related to rehabilitation. And I think we need to be sensitive to those legacy homeowners to make sure that we're not pushing them off their property. As Director Hayes stated, if we're too aggressive, we're gonna provide impediments where they're gonna walk away from their property. So I think we need to balance that relationship
 I think not only on the front end, but also on the tail end of our code enforcement efforts, specifically related to blighted properties, how are we pulling in the delinquent tax process? One, that's a very good early indicator in regards to our property that's going to go into a blighting condition if they stop paying their property taxes.
 So we want to engage in that process as a municipality to see if there's a way that we can work with our partners such as Home Start, bring in foreclosure prevention tools and support and resources which are out there through a number of organizations and team them up. But then also on the tail end,
 You know, as Patrick said, we've demolished a number of structures, but, you know, if we're going to foreclose on our lien, you know, not only are we going to have, you know, $2,000 worth of out-of-pocket costs for foreclosure, but the staff, the legal time that Patrick's team is going to have to put together, which is very slow and tedious, which takes them away from our other efforts. So if we can attach ourselves...
 to the tax delinquency process there, it may be much more cost effective to get those lots through that process than the foreclosure process. So we want to build upon that. And we may have to be a little bit patient through the tax delinquent process, but at the end of the day, we're mowing these lots anyways. And if we had them and we owned them, we'd be mowing them. So let's maintain them to a high level within our neighborhoods, link it to the tax delinquent process, and we'll pick it up.
 As we go forward this winter and had the opportunity to speak with Chief Knott, I think I saw him here earlier today,
 Chief Knott as well as some of my staff and Patrick's staff was at the Center for Community Progress conference a few weeks ago and really looking at some of those best practices. And there's some software data that Chief Knott and I are evaluating in regards to early indicators related to blighting properties and how can we pull that forward. You know, we're setting that meeting up for the week after next when Chief Knott
 There's a number of initiatives. One other point as it relates to our blighted properties, we know that we still have a number of vacant properties out there that need to be demolished. We're setting our priorities as our department going into 2017. City Council approved $500,000 last year for residential demolition, we'll have spent
 We broke that into two years, so we will have spent the full $250,000 this year. So we'll have $250,000 to begin our efforts next year. We're also utilizing $400,000 of Community Development Block Grant
 You know, on Monday night, we have a grant opportunity that's up for consideration for City Council for $250,000. It's a competitive process. I don't know if we'll get the grant or not, but, you know, looking at the conditions of our neighborhoods, the foreclosure rates that we have, we believe we can put a very compelling grant together and then continue our partnership with Rockford Corridor Improvement.
 But as we go to identify what properties are we going to tear down, we have a pretty significant demolition ranking system.
 We've been working on, as we've discussed as a council, how do we continue to identify those properties. So we've brought in some additional factors related to the tax delinquency process as well as calls for service, as well as code violations to a greater level. And we've narrowed that down to about 200 properties, which we're doing site visits over the next few weeks. And then we hope to be able to bring that back to the council.
 not only with our traditional ranking system we've used the last few years, but this revised ranking system to see what properties it identifies so that you can take that into consideration. And I think one component that we need to add into is the commercial industrial buildings and how we're going to address those because we do have a number of significant ones that need to be addressed.
 Thank you. In my ward, which I can, I know we all have properties that should be demolished and we've done a good job in the 9th Ward of some homes, but my concern are the homes where people have walked away from them and they're in foreclosure or whatever. This house is sitting empty.
 I have probably a good 15, 20 homes that are sitting empty and have been empty for at least a year, some of them for three years. When I call concerning neighborhood standards to go out on it or building standards, well, it's in foreclosure and the bank's not working with us.
 the people just walked away. That's where I feel we are not, or maybe I'm not knowledgeable on what community development and public works is doing to remedy that, or how can we remedy that? To get this home before it gets to the state, because a lot of these homes are not in the state to where they need to be demolished. But if they're left empty for the next five, 10 years,
 Then we're going to come back in 10 years and go, oh, well, we've got to demolish these houses. I want to know what programs, and we have to be more forceful on those programs, to get these homes. Does the city take them over from the lending parties, or what do we do to get these homes occupied again and back on the tax roll?
 Those are all good points and good questions. That's very much the challenge as a municipality in the state of Illinois. What is our authority? There's a number of barriers that we have where we do not have the authority to go after these properties and we're in a position where we need to maintain them in the short term through our code enforcement efforts until they come back onto the property.
 into the private sector. And, you know, it's a great concern. And how can we do it better? And what else can we do? And what legislation should we be asking for from the state legislation to change our actions? Because I think our team is,
 and this was validated through the work of the Center for Community Progress, are teams effective? They're aggressive, they're advancing initiatives forward, but there's things that we're restricted from doing because of the legislation in the state of Illinois. And how do we identify those and try to move them forward?
 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So with regard to the foreclosure process, once a bank, you know, has a home loan that's 90 days delinquent, they're going to serve their legal process and start a legal, set a legal mechanisms that can take years to resolve. But most homeowners, nearly immediate response is to abandon the home. And the lending institutions aren't favored in the law if they take title to the property.
 because then they're directly responsible. And we can fine the bank because they own it. But while it's in this limbo, the owner remains the folks who abandoned the house because of the foreclosure action starting. And our local judges, I think, in fairness, are pretty reluctant to tell somebody who got barked out of their home by a big old bank to pay a fine because the weeds grew after the bank told them to leave the house.
 But legally, we can't fix that. And we have a very difficult time in Illinois getting banks to take title in the legal process. There's a whole limbo title process. We've talked about this whole thing before. There's a little piece of our foreclosure, you know, property tax abatement program that requires banks, in order to be eligible, to have taken title, you know, or – and the idea is to work out arrangements with these large lending institutions.
 The problem with banks owning properties in foreclosure, even when they own them, it's impossible to talk to anybody that can deal with it. This is not a problem unique to Rockford. It's endemic throughout the United States. Other states have been able to get through their legislature much more aggressive rules on banks in foreclosures. Illinois just simply requires people who file a foreclosure to tell us that they filed a foreclosure. It doesn't require them to do anything.
 And it doesn't give us any opportunity until they take title to even have somebody to talk to about the condition of the property. There were a lot of ideas like have been expressed here today and been expressed in the past here on this floor, good ideas, sound ideas that were presented at the legislative level in Illinois, and they were all defeated. Anything of any consequence, any real consequence to the lending institutions failed.
 So are there good ideas out there about what to do to clean this up and help municipalities being presented down in Springfield to our legislature? Absolutely. Are any of them making it? No. So, again, we're at a point where non-home rule communities have the ability to do this stuff. We continue to run on Springfield to fix our problems as a non-home rule community, and they continue to lend us their deaf ear. They are not going to take action for us to fix these issues.
 Well, this is a good area to at least point to and say the inability to deal with foreclosed homes, we have a lot of severe limitations. We would have remaining limitations even with home rule, but at least we could do a little more. And so what I want to call your attention to these frustrations, the ideas being expressed here, they're great ideas.
 And they should be the law in the state of Illinois. They are the law in other states throughout our nation. They're just not the law here. I don't think that will change anytime soon. And the only way we can grab some strand of additional control is to start having the 15 people, elected officials who meet here on Monday nights, have more authority. That would be home rule.
 Another idea just kind of popped in my head and then maybe we can think about moving on in the presentations just there may be a quasi-political way forward too is if a group of us were to reach out to some of the banks, particularly those that are more, you know, they don't do a good job of maintaining their properties, I think we probably have a list of who those are, reach out and say, hey, we'd like to see you do a better job and if not, we've
 We've got a bully pulpit, we've got a mouthpiece, just a good old few rounds of public shaming sometimes.
 influences behavior. Not 100%, but we may have some opportunities to identify, hey, this bank, that bank, this house right here because of this bank, the city has to come out and cut the grass. It's one I would definitely encourage people doing business and making money off of Citizens of the City of Rockford to help their neighbors out and maintain their
 Karen. Just to piggyback on what you said, and to understand what Attorney Mays just said. Did I understand you right when you're saying that 90 days into a delinquent mortgage and bank will start a foreclosure process, it's at that point that they will tell the attorney
 the people they have to move out, even though it may be a year or two before the bank actually takes the title, are you saying that the people who move out, when they get a specter of 90 days delinquency, say you have to move out? So I'm sort of expressing what the average of what we see. Every bank has a different form, you know, and a different practice. But I think the generalization in general, that's sort of the timing that we see.
 So, what motivates someone to walk away from their home? Well, before a foreclosure is filed, they might be able to get into a different home. So they move rather quickly when they're up against it in the home. And we've seen, I think we've all seen, you know, people in Rockford bought homes in 2002, 2003, 2005. They paid X for their home.
 If they have a change in life or some reversal of fortune, a change in jobs, they retire, get a divorce, relocate, they're looking at homes that they can't sell for what they've got in it. They're looking at homes they can't sell for what they owe on the mortgage. So they might be motivated if they're forced to move to just say, you know what, before this debt goes bad and gets off my credit rating, I'm going to go buy a different house. Then I'm going to walk away from this house.
 and forget about it. So that happens sometimes. Sometimes folks are just up against it and they walk away at the first instance. Other times folks will stay and they'll hold on and they'll wait to get evicted, which is a part of the process. It's rare, but that is one thing a mortgage lender can do. So there's a whole amalgam of different things that occur in foreclosures, but the average is
 People get the notice and they move out pretty quick. They might worry about their credit rating and getting a lease, you know, because people look at credit to lease places and things like that. There's a lot of motives for people to move right away in a foreclosure process if they have no other way out of it. Our local...
 judiciary establish a mortgage mediation program to try to help some of these folks that can get back in it. Two years ago when we met with a lot of lenders about assessments, there were a lot of bankers in the room. It was the only meeting they came to on that. I talked about the fact here you've got this asset that's just going to decay if it's vacant. Why are you doing this? So we've approached the system from a number of different ways. But in general, we see people banning their homes rather quickly at post notice of foreclosure. Then every foreclosure that's filed in the
 in the court system, they have to send a local municipality notice that they've filed a foreclosure. And then when they finalize it, then they have to give us a notice of who we can contact for the property standards. That may be two or three years later. So oftentimes it's about 18 months. I think the average foreclosure takes well in excess of a year. There's a lot of process and protection for property owners before a bank can take the property back from them, and that takes time to get through. Thank you.
 Okay, so next up, public works, some of the growing demands, landscaping maintenance and management of new gateways and parking lots, increased demand for service, additional roadway mileage puts pressure on the street division staff.
 for snow removal and pothole patching, lighting maintenance for, you know, as we slowly shift our street light stock away from comment rentals to city-owned. There's a maintenance component to that, obviously, that we need to keep up with and are generally not staffed.
 or the current staff we have are not trained to maintain that type of equipment. Along those lines, the current streetlight inventory rented from ComEd is expensive, inefficient, and very poorly maintained, as you're all well aware. So, you know, we spend a lot of time fighting with ComEd on trying to get those streetlights back in working order. Yes? Yes.
 As corridor projects and gateway projects are brought forward to council, does staff take into account some of these maintenance, especially for the greenways? They're beautiful. I know we've recently had some discussions about several of them. But the large amount of lighting at some of these projects, is maintenance and long-term
 the longevity of these projects taken into account because I don't remember seeing them, but I don't know if it's accounted for. I kind of assume that, okay, well, staff says we need to put lighting up on, and I'm not picking on any project. Let's say, yeah, Alderman Thompson-Kelly seems to get all this lighting and all these great things.
 I assume that we've taken some of this into consideration. Sure. And I think that the CAP staff, when they're working on design of these gateways, is mindful of –
 the maintenance demands that are going to be generated from those landscaped areas and try to make sure that we're, you know, for example, every installation has sprinklers now. That wasn't always the practice, and then landscaping died, or we had to drive a watering truck around and water landscaping. So I think CIP's very mindful about alleviating the maintenance burden for these gateways, but generally they have been
 they've been added without additional maintenance staff to take care of them. So the street division is forced to maintain those with their current workload or their current staffing levels. On the growing demand for services on both of the pages I wrote myself,
 I'd like to see an estimated dollar amount with all of these, the growing numbers. We can just estimate a lot of the things for increase in services from year to year. But I'd like to see a dollar amount attached to the growing demand for services when we're sitting and we're deciding what services we're going to be putting in the budget, taking out of the budget and that sort of thing.
 especially when I sit here and I read approximately $10 million for repair of existing fire facilities over the next five years. I'd like to see a year projection for the next five years. So I know what I'm looking at and I know what you're asking. Don't ask me to put a rope on this station when you need a car at this one. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Yep, and we're working on a five-year both vehicle and facilities plan to present
 to council with the detail by year. Okay, my question is with ComEd and the City of Rockford. Now, ComEd is both expensive, ineffective, and poorly maintained. And I'm going to reiterate all three of those words because all I can talk about is the ninth ward. I am aware of other wards, but do we pay ComEd if there is a light
 that needs to be replaced, that we have been trying for four years to get replaced. That's too long. I think we had a list that we were waiting for from ComEd and something with the rental payments, and I thought that was straightened out, but,
 I do not feel that if a resident calls in an 800 number, doesn't talk to a person, because it's real hard to talk to a person at ComEd unless you want 15, 20 minutes on the line. That light, one light I know of, we have been working for four years to get it replaced. Now, could that possibly be a light that we're renting? Yeah. If you're paying rental on that.
 Theoretically, we could have been paying rental on lights that are not lit up. We don't credit that. How do you know it's been out? We get a list from ComEd. To Alderman Newberg's point, we only know, it's only the ones that are registered by ComEd as out that we get the credit. If we don't know about it,
 I think the question is, are we, you know, if we don't know about it, we're paying the rental on the light until we're made aware of it, either by a citizen or comment, right? Who is monitoring this? And someone is renting from, I think I would track, but if we are not, we do not know on that rental comment, we do not know if those are lights on or off, those lights that are installed, right? That's about installation, renting.
 We don't keep those in contract if that light's on or off, and we don't. If the light has been reported to ComEd or has been reported to us, we meet monthly and we are not paying rental or the energy usage until that's fixed. I understand it, but I'm talking. If they are not fixing or reported, how, other than a citizen calling in, are those lights reported to ComEd? We don't have someone to go to the red and check.
 Right, because we don't work at nighttime on overtime typically. But most of the time when a light is out, somebody's calling it in. It's an anomaly. I mean, there's one in an alley like I came across recently that was out. I was able to ferret it out, but it had been out for a year. So now we'll go back and tell ComEd that, you know, we want a credit for that. But these are the exception, not the rule. Most of the times people are calling them in.
 But otherwise, I mean, there's thousands of lights. There's no way, we don't have the staff.
 or the ability to go around and monitor, do quality control on ComEd, much less our own? Just kind of get real. We pay for both the rental and the electricity usage, right? So if it's not on, that's our electric bills less. So we're paying for the rental and the electric. If it's not out and you don't report it, it's not like ComEd has something that says, oh look, prospect and State Street light is out. They don't know if you don't tell them.
 Period. And we don't have the staff to go out and be inspecting all the streetlights. So, the answer to your question is yes. If the light is out and no one tells ComEd, yes, we are paying rental for a light that's not on. And electricity because the light is off. Correct. I understand that, but we are still paying the one rental. Yes. It's a flat rate. Until it gets reported.
 By January 1st, you will know every light in the ward, 9th Ward, that is out and how long it's been out. And I will report that to ComEd. This is a definite community challenge over the last eight months, nine months, since the passing of the Torch and leadership there. I'm not going to lie, it's been a struggle for a long time.
 And I drive down Broadway at 1321 Broadway and I call and I just sent an email this morning because I came to this meeting.
 just to check again to see if that light was installed, and it's still not there. And I want to know where it's at, and it's been a year, over a year. Follow-up. Sure. I will say I have to agree with you. This has been a recent problem due to a change in retirement of a very conscientious worker with ComEd that we as aldermen could call when there was a problem. The person that has taken over for...
 that retiree has not carried on the tradition that was created before him. Thank you. Mr. Alvambeach. So we do have about 137 neighborhood groups and we have a staff of about 150,000 people at Rockford. So if we were just to ask them to begin passing back through the neighborhood groups lights that are out,
 Those who lights are out now, I mean, I've had requests like all of us, and it's not the same. And it's just got to be changed. I mean, it really honestly does. I also wanted to ask, as I have in the past, is there any appetite at all to begin to put some money in the CIP program to start buying these fixtures back?
 So, over 10 years, over 20 years, we ultimately own them all and get out of that business. I think there's an opportunity because I've been here quite a long time and this is, even with new changes in leadership, the whole street light operation in this city has never been efficiently managed or operated.
 As a council, you really have two choices. Do you want to invest and continue on working with a third-party relationship with ComEd, or do we want to start operating and maintaining our own system?
 We're having another third party, private third party, operate and maintain the system. But I think one opportunity that we have and that we're working on an RFI or RFP for this fall to go out is to start some piloting and do a pilot project where we convert a given square block with LEDs, which will give us...
 considerable savings on energy. But I think the real generational leap that we can make is with the new sensor technology that can be embedded in street lights where we can connect it directly to our CAD system. So if there's a major crime, you know, you can strobe the lights, for instance. There's some real
 opportunities where we can, you know, make our neighborhoods at least physically environmentally safer by utilizing technology, the sensors can tell you if their master controlled when they're out, to Alderman Newberg's point. And so I think
 I'd like to see us move in that direction. It would take a multi-phased effort, but I think some of the dollars that we have right now that we're spending on energy can go into a performance energy contract for the capital. But the question will become and will be posed upon Director Vittner is, okay, we either have to –
 have the personnel to be able to manage and operate that system, or we need to have a third party provider be able to operate and manage that system.
 But clearly now, there's no master controller where we have technology that is telling us when the lights are off. There's really no engineering standard out there in terms of where those poles are located. In some areas we have, you know, you can't drive 50 feet without a light pole, and then others we have no lights. So having a better engineered system, having brighter LED light that is more energy efficient,
 smart city sensor features that we can build upon that can tell us the temperature of the pavement so that we have better efficiency for snow plowing. We potentially can utilize these sensors to gather data from remote water meters to save us on operational costs. Those are the type of things that we're looking at and that other cities are doing. So it's a good opportunity. I just want to speak to the one point about do we account for
 the growing maintenance demands when we plan these projects. This has been talked about, you know, since the day I walked in the door. When we decide to do a project, what will the impacts be on our street division to maintain it? What you're going to see in the CIP moving forward is the CIP is already making a significant contribution to offset general fund expenses. We're already contracting out and we're going to contract out more stuff
 to maintain what we've created. And I think it's important to understand that we need to take care of what we have and then understand the impacts of creating more moving forward. It's very important to understand that. We don't want to build things and then walk away from them because we have a history of doing that, and we're trying to clean these things up now. We want to clean up the city and continue to fix what's already out there as housekeeping.
 Yet we've created a lot of new amenities and it's great and we're seeing the positive effects of that. The CIP will balance that and there's a lot of demand on those dollars. But you need to understand that the MFT money, the sales tax money, the demands are greater on that now than they've ever been. And when we look at police stations, parking decks, other operating funds that the CIP is supplementing, the CIP is already making up for some of those general fund costs
 expenses that would otherwise be paid for by other operating budgets. So I would ask that we try to preserve our CIP dollars moving forward. So that's my statement. I'd just like to answer for Alderman Beach's we're already paying $40,000 a year for the
 I think it would be awfully simple for her to contact all the neighborhood groups and the residents of the neighborhood groups to fill out, make out a form for them to report to us, compile a report and report, who does she report to? The neighborhood network?
 and report back to the city on a list of lights that are out. That's the simplest thing you could do because we're already paying for the services. We pay $40,000 a year for it. What reports does she provide to us on issues such as that or issues such as the community involvement? I know she attends the meetings because I attend all of them with her, but what reporting does she come back to the community as far as something that's so important as
 lights being out. Just to answer, just... We certainly can engage neighborhood network, that's a good suggestion. We've engaged neighborhood network in a number of initiatives such as the tree planting program that Public Works has to get the word out.
 to address that issue with them, have them broadcast it not only through our own networks with Kimberly Bruce, but through Neighborhood Network and identify those lights that are out so that we can properly feed them in a manageable manner to...
 Matt Staff. Just if I may, we do have about 20 minutes left. We've got about six more slides to go through. I've been taking notes as we've been going through for topics that we need to get follow-up on, just to let you know what I've got so far. One is demolitions and property standards enforcement, so I need some more work there. Police department customer service on demolitions.
 calls that are coming in, innovative solutions to street lighting, you know, to include reporting lights that are out, if there's a more cost-effective way to implement that.
 improvise that or to improve that. And then, you know, finally, it's going to be an obvious, another session for us will be, you know, now we're getting, here's what we're spending our money on, here's our challenges, here's our deficit, now what are some solutions that we're looking at, and then we'll have a forum for city council members to report, hey, this is what I want to keep, these are priorities, things such as the demolition. So does anyone have anything else on street lighting? Are we in a position that we can go ahead and move forward? Okay. Okay.
 So, to continue on this topic, community and economic development, we have a number of significant large projects that the building division is working on. Obviously, Mercy, the Mercy project takes a lot of our resources to get a project like that completed.
 We've got a 12% increase in code compliance complaints so far in 2016. Obviously, no change in staff. We're doing the best we can to keep up with those. Again, addressing the demands of aging and vacant housing stock. It's a common theme across all the departments.
 And CDBG is becoming a less viable option for funding code enforcement activity. The CDBG funds pay a portion of our code for a portion of our code enforcement activity in block grant eligible areas. And as the federal government puts increasingly strict
 regulations and compliance audits on the city for use of those funds, it's becoming more and more evident that that's going to be a challenge to continue moving forward.
 In the legal department, continued challenge to collect amounts owed to the city, particularly code enforcement fines, as you're all well aware, and then effective support of the demolition activity title transfers in our rental registry, as we've discussed. Alderman Elliott. Is there a director around the uses of the area, or is it one of those funds? Director Cagnoni can probably address that.
 Primarily, we're talking about our entitlement funds, which is community development block grant funds, as they want to make sure that those resources are being deployed to benefit low to moderate income individuals in neighborhoods and that the resources are not being utilized just to offset typical general fund or municipal responsibilities.
 What we're conscious of as a department, recognizing the priority that our council has put forward related to code enforcement activities, is that we're identifying geographical boundaries that are within the CDBG eligible area and deploying the resources specifically there in addition to our existing code enforcement activities.
 budget and at the same time tying our home improvement programs and some of our other strategies so that we can reasonably defend the utilization of those funds for that activity.
 some technical assistance this summer where we evaluated our program with HUD representatives in a non-monitoring situation, but just for guidance. And they provided us some areas in which we would want to improve on, which we are implementing this year. But it's really about tracking the overall activity. And what the difficulty is on an operational basis
 is it doesn't give us the broad flexibility we would like to deploy our resources. I mean, we'll be able to manage through it, but it's becoming more and more of a burden to utilize those funds.
 We use about $570,000 for code enforcement activity to fund the staff in the neighborhood standards and property standards section. Not only is it helping out, but at the same time, that's $570,000 that we can't put into our neighborhoods or our commercial areas through other programs that might benefit and raise the level of service in those neighborhoods.
 In the Human Resources Department, we have an increase in hiring activity, particularly key positions that are a little more time-consuming to fill, continuing challenge of a lack of training funds and tuition reimbursement for nonrepresented staff. You know, we're required to fund tuition reimbursement under the collective bargaining agreements with police and fire, but there have not been funds available for nonrepresented staff for some time.
 Also, demands for information, pulling data out of our disparate systems to analyze where is our OT going, what's workers' comp look like, FMLA usage. Some of that data that we need to be able to process and digest to make management level decisions is difficult to obtain.
 Beyond that, investment in capital, another challenge for all of our departments. We've seen an increased need for investment in facilities, vehicles and equipment. And the facility side, and again, we're working on a five-year capital facilities and equipment plan that will be distributed to Council as soon as it's completed. But we estimate approximately $10 million in repairs.
 to existing fire facilities over the next five years. So is that just the second year or is that the third year out where they need seven? No, I think that the projects largely could be spaced out to make that a level funding, you know, a level investment every year for five years. I don't, you know, other than
 We've got a couple stations that are in a condition that investing more in maintaining them is probably not the wisest use. They should probably be replaced completely with a facility that's more functional. Will this be reflected in our upcoming budget? We will provide that plan to council, but no funding for capital investment is included in the budget as it stands. Yes?
 In the plan that's being presented to us, is it going to be a five-year projection? Yeah. And this at Station 9? Yes. Yeah. This at Station 4? Yes. Replace this station? It's all going to be spelled out with projected costs? Yes. Yes. And by station, by year, type of work. Pardon? Type of work. So this must be critical for the project.
 asks right now. Yes, I would say primarily yes. Are and that are not in our budget one way or the other. Are you really saying that we're going to be looking for more than $5 million deficit to go forward because why would we let our infrastructure continue to deteriorate more if it's critical to get it fixed?
 This is my 14th budget cycle, and we have not had any funds programmed in advance except for the replacement of Station 3, which we were forced to do, and the district's facilities. We have not planned...
 for significant capital investment in the fire stations at all in my tenure here. So, I agree that we can't continue to ignore the issue, and as we've seen over that time period, we get in situations where we have no choice, that the roof's about to cave in or the brick's falling down, and we have to make an investment that's not budgeted.
 But until we can identify a funding source, a permanent funding source, that we can commit regular funds, it's going to continue to get absorbed. Any dollars that we might identify in one year are going to continue to get absorbed by operations. So, yes. And just two things on that. One, I'll add to our list of things we want to come back with. I'll call it if we have a presentation on additional asks.
 So one would be, hey, so for capital projects, not currently in the budget, but if I've asked, the department has come in, hey, this is about what we're going to need, just like Alderman Beach and all the people we're talking about. So we can start accounting for that, hey, if not next year, year after, what's the time frame, how are we going to get there? So let us know what those are. I know the police department had some additional asks that the chief had socialized. We can talk about those at a future meeting. So additional asks, yeah.
 that aren't in the budget, if we can make those a separate topic. Then on that with the building, I did a little Googling. The Empire State Building was built 85 years ago. I've been in the Coliseum. It is still a quasi-serviceable building. In the late 20th century, we built the public safety building and didn't make it 40 years. So I will just...
 To our department heads, please make sure we're, you know, good quality construction as these are going up, you know, inspections and oversight by the city and then maintaining the buildings that you're living in. It's one that I am older than the public safety building and it's this unserviceable building, yet, you know, my grandparents were at the grand opening of the Empire State Building and it's still going strong. So I think that we can do better than we have in building and maintaining structures.
 Well, yes, all right. Thank you, sir. I don't know if this is the right way to say it, but, you know, there is certainly a certain sum of money that we can look for in terms of our total budget. And there's got to be priorities. There's got to be another number above that. And I guess I should like to sometime, as you say, over the years, maybe help build a zero-based budget.
 That puts the first thing first, and the second, second, second, and third, based on this council, and we get to a point where we say we spent our $124 million, and we're now $15 million short. We're now $13 million short. We're now too short, and how are we going to get that money? Because, you know, that should be on the subject for discussion, Chairman.
 Well, and, you know, I think that's part of the goal of this conversation today is to talk about what we see as issues that are going to have to be addressed, what we see as operational challenges, demands for service, so that you have an idea of what needs to be prioritized, so that you know what we're looking at, so we can get some guidance from council on where you want us to focus our energy, how...
 critical in council's mind is replacing fire ca- you know, replacing vehicles, investing in fire stations. You know, these are, without council guidance we can't, um, the finance department staff doesn't want to prioritize for you at the end of the day. It would seem to me, excuse me, I'm sorry. It would seem to me that if we over time voted on geo policing. Mm-hmm. And that means three locations.
 That at that same time, we would have been thinking about the fact that we needed a million dollars more worth of SWAT cars to service those three stations. That's saying right now, we've got the three stations and we need those cars. Sure. I mean, to me, that would have been part of that discussion, part of that funding, you see, rather than to put it on our back at this point in time. Because it's just...
 Because we've been led to believe there'd be no increased costs. Sure. I understand. But there is increased costs. Mm-hmm. In almost every department. Sure. And not necessarily with geographic policing, but, again, Frank, just to point out, 14 years, 14th budget cycle, that's every year we've had a deficit starting off since I've been here. All but one. All but one.
 All but one, I stand corrected. But we've been talking about this need for investment in facilities for years.
 And we have not identified any sort of revenue to pay for this. And we're in such a reactionary mode with these sorts of things. You know, vehicles got replaced after, A, we identified a funding source, the gaming revenue, and, B, we got to the point where the vehicles couldn't be maintained anymore.
 You know, they're beyond repair. So, you know, we're putting out fires, essentially, as far as capital goes, both equipment and facilities. So what period of time, and Andrew, back to you, what period of time are we sitting on? Yep. Yep. Police, fire, and public works each got a million dollars. Every year we do that. Yes. Okay.
 The thing went south back in 2005, 2006, and that was that. So it's not that we weren't. Oh, no, and certainly, I mean, you're looking for the turnaround, right? Everybody's waiting for the economy to turn around, everything to bounce back, and these deficits to go away, and it just hasn't occurred. So at some point we have to say, okay, we can't just keep,
 floating along, you know, living in this world where we expect things to turn around, we have to face that this is reality. We have to accept this is the revenue we have available and we need to set service levels at an area that we can maintain including capital. Yes, ma'am. First of all, I need
 I appreciate the fact that you put together because there's more detail than we've had in the past. One of the things I want to caution my colleagues in the Albany Group, you've got to look at your actions too. You've got to look at our actions where we're giving incentives to the community.
 giving away dollars throughout the year. And when it comes down to the budget, then we're looking at we don't have enough staffing or we don't have enough dollars to give basic services. We can't afford to not take taxes.
 to continue to give away $200,000, $300,000, because it's going to hurt the bottom line. It's going to hurt the staffing throughout the year as well as the bottom line. I understand a lot of projects sound good and it depends on who's offering the project and who's the brand of them, but we also have to look at our bottom line and what we're offering the services in this community.
 Over $70 million go to two departments, which is our police and our fire. But in yet we still have the crime rate in which we do. But in yet we still have our fire department going out and doing community service. We need to address how we're doing business and fund those two different departments to where they can adequately give the residents of this community the services that they deserve with the taxes that they pay.
 I do have a priority as far as the five-year plan that the chief has given us, and I do have concerns about how we're staffing, how we're approaching crime, how we're approaching budgets in this community. We need to take a look at all of it, not just parts of it. And we play our part, this council, in some of the decisions that we make. That was my two cents.
 We absolutely should put in money for capital improvement. That's just bewildering to me. I never ran a business, never been in charge of a budget that we didn't put it in. But I also believe that we need to follow the budget that we put into place instead of adding all these other expenditures. We don't have it.
 Otherwise, we wouldn't be sitting here saying we're trying to come up with money for these. So it's kind of like a dollop. If you don't have it, you don't spend it, you don't put it in other places. And then if we happen to end up with some extra money down the line, then that should go into capital. So I challenge everyone in this room and everybody else that isn't here today to follow the budget for 2017 that we put in place and no additional expenditures to be spent.
 Okay, just a couple, oh sorry. Do we, at this point, because we're just about, we're at our budgeted time, I think our attentions are starting to drift elsewhere. I would personally be comfortable with taking the rest of the slides here and putting them to another presentation, or is there an appetite to continue moving to the rest? So with that, does anyone have any other additional statements they'd like to make? Okay.
 Okay. So I would just like to, for myself, thank all the city staff, department heads, other representatives who have come here today for putting together a great presentation, great work on the budgets. We talked a lot about staffing pressure earlier. I'd like to thank our finance director who's been doing the job for seven months without a purchasing director. She's gotten to do a little bit of both. So thank you very much. It's been great information, great discussion with my colleagues. With that, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
 Motion and a second to adjourn. All in favor say aye. We're adjourned.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.