You know what I mean?
 Ah, excellent. So we have a quorum. We'll just move right into public speakers. I'm joking. We've done that. We have appointments laid over. We have one appointment, appointment of Jamie Sanchez to the Rockford Housing Authority Board for a five-year term expiring September 2022. Mr. Sanchez is replacing Phyllis Genestra pursuant to Rule 18. This comes up after October 18th, which would be today for this council meeting.
 Any comments or discussion on Mr. Sanchez's appointment? Alderman Quinones? This is a fine individual. I know him personally, and I'm happy that you picked somebody of this caliber. He's a good working man, good union man. I think he represents his carpenters union. But I'm pleased you're getting good recommendations for these boards. Thank you, sir.
 Other discussion, comments, questions? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the vote? Aye. Excellent. There's two other appointments that come up after November 1st. We'll move to new committee reports, and I do not have the co-chair for codes and regs in front of me. Who is the co-chair for codes? Alderman Beach. Wonderful. Would you please read in the item under codes and regulations? Yes.
 Yes, sir. Roman numeral 5B1. Yes, sir. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tackle Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant at 1603 North Alpine, known as Baker Street Burgers, subject to conditions. I move to approve. The place is up for passage. We have a second. Excellent. Is there discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes.
 Wonderful. Item passes. Moving to new business. Alderman Beach, would you please read in new business for codes and regulations? The ordinance is the one we just finished about the restaurant outdoor liquor sales at 16 to 3 North Alpine Road. Wonderful. Put that up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion on this item? Do I need a roll call? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Mr. Mayor, he is the second. He's dead. He's dead.
 Now there's multiple seconds. Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll now that we have a second or two? Oh, yeah. It comes out of committee. It doesn't need a second, right? So it comes out of committee. We don't need a second. You're more than correct. But now that we have them, we can actually call the roll. Clerk, will you call the roll? Aye. Aye. Aye. That item passes.
 I'm just evoking the ghost of Jamie Getches. Who would have thought the boat would hurt when it faced Alderman Getches? It was un-proleterian. I will just say one thing before we adjourn, because Alderman Beach touched on an important item. Alderman Rose lost his father. He had previously lost his mother back when we were in grade school and high school together. I'm sure it's a tough time for him and his entire family, so please keep them all in your thoughts and prayers. They're a pretty fantastic family.
 And he's a quality representative for the city, but their entire family means a lot to our community. So I would ask that you please keep them in your thoughts and prayers. Is there a motion to adjourn? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Have a good night.