2019. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Quinones. Tosh. Beck. McNeely. Shirely. Nine present. Excellent. So we have a quorum. We'll begin with an invocation. I do not see Chaplain Lemonholm here this evening, so I would like to ask Alderman Beach to lead us with our invocation.
 Father God, we come to you tonight in the name of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and ask you to be with us here in this council chamber. We're grateful, Father, that we can in public just come to you and ask for your guidance and your wisdom, which we do tonight. We pray for our first responders. We pray for the mayor of this city and for this council. We ask you to guide our deliberations this evening. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
 i pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all thank you alderman beach is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on september 30th 2019. we have a motion in a second is there any discussion
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on October 7th, 2019? So moved. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor, say aye. Aye. Excellent. We'll move on. We have one proclamation this evening. With?
 So we have Head Start Awareness Month, and I believe we may have a number of folks joining us for Head Start Awareness Month. Whereas the National Head Start, since its establishment, has helped millions of low-income children and their families and has earned recognition and support for its success in early childhood education and development.
 And whereas the City of Rockford Human Services Head Start serves 723 children and their families in our community to provide a head start around education and transition services. And whereas the health and nutrition aspects of the program have improved the prevention, detection, and treatment of children's medical, dental, and nutritional need, thereby addressing barriers to growth and learning.
 And whereas, Head Start provides comprehensive health, nutritional, educational, social services, family and community development, and meaningful parent involvement. Family engagement is a collaborative and strengths-based process through which early childhood professionals, families, and children build positive and goal-oriented relationships. The Head Start Parent, Family, and Community Engagement Framework is a roadmap for progress.
 And whereas all of Rockford is committed to the welfare of all of our children and families. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim October 2019 to be Head Start Awareness Month. Would you all like to share a few words?
 We got one thing. That's right. Thank you. And I just want to say that, you know, statistics and probably more importantly, the hundreds of stories that we've heard over the last 44 years that the city has had Head Start,
 say that Head Start works. And so I'd like to thank the Mayor and the City Council for your support and your commitment to the families that we serve and to the staff that we have in our program. Thank you. Thank you. Next up we have petitions and communications. I do not believe that we have any planning and development committee items, so I'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Oh, I'm sorry, Alderman Rose.
 I am looking for the sheet real quick. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one memorandum from LaFleur Cariovan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the Rockford Convention and Visitors Bureau quarterly report, fiscal year 2019, quarter four, April through June, and fiscal year 20, quarter one, July through September of 2019, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you alderman rose next up. We have code and regulation committee alderman trelli. Thank your honor I have a memorandum from jeremy carter the traffic engineer regarding an honorary street name change on south winnebago street From morgan street to montague street to chuck jefferson way in honor of charles e chuck jefferson Number two is a memorandum from martin bloom the project manager for permits and special events regarding an upcoming special event for snow market
 The third is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding the 2020 City Council and Committee's calendar schedule. And the last is a referral to the proposed intergovernmental agreement with RPS 205 for police services. I refer all those to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelli. Next up, I'll move to finance and personnel and Alderman Hervey. Now. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items tonight. The first is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, our Assistant City Attorney, regarding roadway development agreement between the City of Rockford and Love's Travel Shops and Country Stores. And this is for the property located at 4628 South Main Street and 33XXUS20 Bypass. Yes.
 The other is a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, our finance director, regarding the 2019 property tax levy, 2019 property tax abatement, street and bridge ordinance, fee schedule, and appropriation ordinance. Both items refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. Next up, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, did you have an item? Petitions and communications. We're there. Thank you.
 Thank you. I didn't want to do it under officer's report because I felt this is more important. We are planning the annual senior citizens Thanksgiving luncheon, which will be November the 12th, a Tuesday from 11 AM to 2 PM. So I'm asking and I will be passing around the flyer and the sign up sheet. We're looking for individuals to help serve as well as donations for the gifts. Thank you.
 Just a reminder when she says she's asking, she really isn't. Just give her money. Thank you, though, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, on a serious note. Thank you for all the work that you put into that really important luncheon. Next up, we have public speakers. I'll remind the public speakers that we have speakers on the back right and back left of the city council chambers and that you will have three minutes to speak, and our first speaker will be Joyce Higgins.
 Thank you so very much. Wow! That's so powerful. Thank you so very much. I am totally honored to be here to come before the City Council. First of all, I'm here to represent the Chuck Jefferson Research Library that's housed at the African American Resource Center at Booker.
 Now, we commissioned or petitioned the City Council for the street on Morgan Street between Morgan and Montague to be named in honor of our former representative of the 67th District. Now we all know he served this community very, very well. But I would like to quickly read this. You said I have three minutes, Mayor? About two minutes and 30 seconds.
 The African American Resource Center at Booker, Chuck Jefferson Research Library of African American History and Culture is elated to request the Montague Street through Morgan Street off Winnebago Street receive a name designation in honor of Chuck Jefferson for his service to Winnebago County, Rockford, Illinois and its inhabitants.
 Charles E. Chuck Jefferson is the first African American in Winnebago County's 67th District to be appointed and elected to serve in the position of State Rep.
 He served in Illinois General Assembly for 13 years from 2001 to 2014. Most of you probably already know that, right? But I'm just reiterating it today. Until he retired, Jefferson served well for his constituents of the 67th District. Now, his local contributions, he served in United Way's board, he served on the West Lion Club's board, he serves as a Welcome Star Masonic Lodge, 33 degrees, mind you.
 Jefferson served at the 67th District of Illinois represented in Springfield, which covers areas from Meridian Road, north to south to Mulford, south to Kiswahki River,
 Then the Beltline, Bureaus Parkway, and all over. This area, 108,000 inhabitants residing in the district. And I think we only have, what, 156? So that's the majority of our constituents, right, where he served. Jefferson served in the United States Air Force from 1965 to 1972. He served as a delegate to Senator Rupp.
 Barack Obama at the Democratic Convention in Denver, Colorado. I don't know if you guys knew that, but he did. And of course, Barack became the President of the United States. I know you guys all know that. The significant contribution is the designation has a historical, I'm going to repeat that, historical significance for Southwest Rockford, where many immigrants settled, especially African Americans.
 i.e. Lewis Lemon, the first African American to arrive in Rockford in 1834 with his slaveholder, Dadrick Blake.
 Rockford Southwest Corridor and the West River Bank is the location where its found its situated itself in addition to African American oh that's time oh man I'm happy email each one of you guys I'm mother you're like one I do not want to hear that ring go off so I apologize thank you thank you for hearing me next speaker we have this evening is Prophet Yusuf
 She had to go. Let her speak and then I'll come to you. Okay. Next speaker will be April Prunty. Okay. Hello, everyone, and thank you also. I, too, am speaking on behalf of the Honorary Street Name Designation for Chuck Jefferson. And I will just finish what Joyce was going to say. Rockford Southwest...
 corridor and the West Rock River Bank is the location where its founders situated themselves. In addition, the African American Resource Center at Booker's Chuck Jefferson Library or Chuck Jefferson Research Library of African American History and Culture
 sits on a plate of land positioned between Winnebago Street and Main Street of Morgan Street. This corridor is one of Rockford's historic districts. The library's history committee is requesting the maximum time period for designation, which is 15 years. It is so fitting that
 for Charles E. Jefferson, Chuck Jefferson, the former state representative, to be honored with the name designation. Thank you. And that was from Joyce. And then I'll go as long as I can, just giving you a little bit of history about Chuck.
 Chuck was born in Waco, Texas in 1945 of the union between Lee Andrew Jefferson and Victoria Jefferson. Chuck was the fourth child in the family of 11. His siblings are Frank, Joyce, Lee, Robert, Amy, Dorothy, Karen, Linda, Patsy,
 I hope I didn't miss anybody. Kenneth, okay. His grandfather was Thomas Jefferson, who Chuck reportedly might be named after. Chuck is currently a member of Providence Missionary Baptist Church in Rockford, Illinois. As a child, he and his family attended Tolliver Baptist Church. He was baptized between the ages of 11 and 12.
 He married Janelle Blair in 1967 and remained married to her until her death in 2001. Chuck and Janelle met while they were both serving in the military. She was born in Tennessee. They have three sons, Charles, Curtis, and Carl. Chuck attended J.H. Hines Elementary School, Wiley Middle School,
 Moore High School and he went to college at Paul Quinn in Waco, Texas. His military experience includes In 1965 when he was 20 he enlisted into the United States Army. His experience afforded him the opportunity to travel to Tokyo, the capital of Japan, for three years. He said, I speak some Japanese and
 During Chuck's military experience, he traveled to Frankfurt, Germany. He was stationed there for one year where he served as an athletic director supervising sports and related activities. While in Japan and as a surrogate in the Army, a sergeant in the Army, I'm sorry, Chuck served as a military policeman. Chuck participated in boot camp training at Fort Polk.
 Yes, in Louisiana, Chuck served as an honorary, excuse me, Chuck received an honorable discharge. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next public speaker we have is Prophet Yusef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 22nd chapter, the ninth verse, written by a wise man named Solomon, a generous man will himself be blessed, for he shares his fool with the poor.
 what i want to speak about tonight confronting the abandoned crisis here's a staggering number 553 000 imagine what you would do if 553 000 were deposited into your bank account today imagine what you can see if you travel 553 000 miles around the world that is a significant number the truth is that's the number of homeless people
 recorded in the United States in 2018. Yes, the most developed country in the world allows a whopping 17% of its population to live on the streets. California holds a total of 113,952 abandoned homeless individuals. This represents 20% of all homeless people in the United States. Approximately 15,179 are veterans.
 People in this country are turning a blind eye as if this is some new norm. We have abandoned our neighbors and homelessness is a clear symptom. I live each day fighting poverty and homelessness. During my career, I have encountered veterans.
 who once fought for our country, now defeated and suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, drug and alcohol addiction, and hopelessness and despair. I spoke with women who through life's circumstance were now selling their bodies to have a place to stay. I've seen children who should be living carefree, filled with hope.
 for the future were begging for food. I still remember my first encounter on the streets of Chicago's Stitt Road 38 years ago. Like most people, I had no comprehension of the magnitude of the problem of homelessness, abandonment, until I saw men, women, and children, yes children, who lived on the streets for years. The decay of precious lives had a life of its own and the ideal survival had a shallow success rate. Digest this for one moment.
 Abandoned citizens die homeless in the streets each day. But it doesn't make the evening news everyone to wonder why. Could it be because the problem is a sober reflection on all of us in the United States?
 I imagine senior citizens who live their golden years in full insecurity or children who go to bed hungry every night. Imagine the little girl who is afraid her parents will be taken away due to immigration. I imagine families who don't make a living wage and living below the poverty line and can't afford to take their sick child to the doctor due to inequity in health. Imagine
 having to decide to pay for food or your utility bill or medication for an ill family member or milk or diapers for a baby. Just imagine my solution to solve this problem in America. First, we need one million affordable homes in America. Two, jobs that pay good wages. Three, affordable education. Four, a better life.
 bus transportation run 24 hours a day, five, alcohol treatment for self, six, drug treatment for self, seven, mental health for self, eight, 24 hours daycare service so women can go to work or school that the government paid for, nine, let's stop referring to our brothers and sisters, our children and veterans as homeless. They are indeed abandoned. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tackbrain.
 Good evening, Mayor Tom McNair, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28 verses 27. Ms. Haldeman, come over here with me, please.
 God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb is to be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God would supply all our needs.
 He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's need? The power of the preaching community can't be underestimated. The rest I'll go acapella. On August the 2nd, Bill Stokes, that I've been DJing with for the past 37 years, passed away. On October the 9th, I was the pallbearer and I spoke at Bill Stokes' funeral.
 I was still very devastated and I still have the flag on my van right now because I'm having a hard time knowing that Bill is not here with us anymore. On October the 11th, I started talking to people about raising funds for Disney on ice. In order to take 60 people, we need to raise $1,020.
 I've signed up over more than 90 family members to go to Disney on ice. We ask each family that's going to only have to pay $10 where the family, each ticket costs $17 as of, um,
 As of Saturday, we raised $1,035 in less than one week. That shows you the phenomenon respect that Renewal Turning Point Program has out here. We also established a voting block
 that now I have my own staff members on that broken block, so I'm not doing everything alone. I'm going to go on to continue to say, I understand it's going to be a town hall meeting tomorrow at the art museum with the police. I found that out through the NAACP. What we are upset about is that on July the 4th,
 Her son was brutally injured by the police department. When that Monday, when we came to city hall, we talked to the chief of police after she spoke and they said they didn't have a ticket. They didn't have any arrest warrant for her son. On today evidently they must have a secret grand jury because now they charge her son for resisting arrest
 and battery to a police officer when she never received a citation. Every time she called the police station, they blew her off. So we'll be showing up in full force tomorrow to find out and ask the question why. If the community and the police want to come together, we have to work out our difference. I don't represent the system. I represent the people, and we want to know why this young man has been
 been charged. I want to end by saying that thank you for all our sponsors who sponsored us and thank those who wanted to sponsor us that wasn't able to come through. Thank you. Okay, moving on, we go to new committee reports.
 Under new committee reports, I don't have listed that we have any planning and development items. So I'll move to code and regulation, Alderman Trellis. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have one this evening. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of Tanglewood Lane from Spring Creek Road to the north, including the cul-de-sac.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place that up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So there's one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Hervey, Thompson, Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beech, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Vetteye, Chiarelli. Nine ayes. Thank you. Next up we have finance and personnel. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor.
 This is under item 5C, 1 and 2. Number 1 is committee report recommending approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,867,211.75.
 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee at the meeting of October 15, 2019. The second is committee is recommending approval of the video gaming terminal fee schedule. The finance director requests approval of the increase of allotted machines from five machines to six machines
 On August 8th, as of 2019, new revenue would net approximately $2,450 for 2019 if all establishments were to add the additional machine. The legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 I'm sorry, there are actually four. Item number three is committee recommending approval of the exchange of city-owned property located at 11XX Railroad Avenue. That pin number is 11-26-430-014. And that exchange would be with Gerald Paris for his property located, pardon?
 we got to item four i just want to make sure that we're going to hold that out tonight okay thank you
 Let's see, okay, going back to Mr. Paris' property located at 11 XX Railroad Avenue. That's pin number 11-26-436-001. This is in an effort to complete the Keith Creek Bank Stabilization Project. The total value of the received property is approximately equal to the property being conveyed, taking into consideration the long-term best interests of the public.
 uh... the league record here the appropriate ordinance and uh... apparently yeah i don't or will be held out tonight thank you so there's three items before uh... you alderman if there's uh... any questions on those alderman mcneely thank you mister i'd like to know what the value is of that which either mister pearson director friends and would that go to you value of property out for
 Railroad Avenue. I don't have the specific valuation, but I recall mr. Hackinson stating that his property was approximately thirteen thousand dollars more than ours Kyle I
 Thank you, Your Honor. It's also worth noting that the additional cost tied to making improvements in that area, had we not acquired this property, would be approximately $750,000 in additional design, engineering, and construction. So although the property may be $13,000 more than the property we're trading with, there's a significant savings on the total project cost. Thank you. Any other additional questions?
 Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Nine ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to officers' reports and move to ask Legal Director Meyer, I believe, as a reminder for all of us.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I passed out to everyone additional copies of the Section 5.3J disclosure forms. I just want to remind everyone that our communications with casino applicants has to be done every 30 days. That continues on into perpetuity even after the application has been approved, even after the casino has been built every 30 days if there's communications with
 owners about gaming those will need to continue to be reported down to the Illinois gaming board
 Thank you. And Alderman Thompson-Kelly? Even items that's been discussed in the public and it's public knowledge, we still have to... Such as a public hearing, yes. Right. We still have to record the conversation? Yes, that's correct. And if you have any questions about whether something has to be reported or not, you can feel free to shoot me an email or give me a call or talk to me after the meeting, and I'll give you an opinion on whether it needs to go down or not. Alderman Hervey? Thank you.
 Can we submit those to Director Meyer, or do those have to go to our advice? Oh, they can be submitted through. Yep. To the league. Okay, thank you. Alderman Beck, did you have an officer report? Yes. Thank you, Your Honor. So next Monday, the budget will come up on the Finance and Personnel Committee agenda, and I believe everybody's been...
 privy to the presentation of from our director and if there's any suggestions for modifications or anything you need to get clarified If you could try to get that done by next Monday or certainly can ask questions next month as well but especially if you have ideas for Modifications, I think it would be helpful for staff to hear those so that they can work on presenting options that might require
 So, just wanted to give everybody a heads up. Thank you. Alderman Quinones? Yes, I just want to remind everybody that the Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Fire Department had a trunk or treat Monday, October 28th, 501 7th Street, the Rockford Public School Building from 6 to 8. Thank you.
 Other officers reports alderman herby. Thank you. Your honor in keeping with um trick-or-treating Um, the fifth ward will not have a fifth ward meeting this month Instead on the 31st, we're going to be sponsoring a trunk or treat With station three with the rockford fire department and swedish americans river west clinic
 Yeah, it's going to be nice. We're going to close the street off and have cars in the clinic parking lot. They're going to decorate a fire truck, I believe. So it's gotten unsafe for many of the kids to trick or treat, and we thought this would be a great way to bring it back.
 It's kind of within the ward. Obviously, we're not going to be turning anybody away. I think we'll have plenty of candy So that big one is sort of the citywide kind of announcing it but the other four River West Certainly for anybody in the area feel free to come. I think it's going to be really nice for the kids Thank you
 Any other officers report to alderman Hoffman? I just want to thank you for speaking at our rolling green meeting. It was very interesting, and I want to thank Alderman Chiarelli for all his help that evening. I think it was about 9 o'clock by the time we finally got everybody out of the parking lot.
 There were a lot of questions asked afterwards and it was a very interesting meeting. Thank you very much. There were a lot of questions. Alderman Irby. I'm sorry, Your Honor. There is one other thing I wanted to mention. I've gotten so many questions from people regarding the status or the future or the possibility with the Barbara Coleman in Rock Valley.
 Well, I guess I used to call it a partnership, but there is still very, very strong interest in that. And I would like to, and I don't know how soon it can come up, there's a lot going on, but I'd like to even host a community meeting at some point.
 Because people have answers that I just don't have and I am really happy at the amount of Disappointment. I've had people call others who called and said I don't think it's Rock Valley's purpose to help you with your redevelopment over there so I kind of knew what I was getting but I think I
 It's great when the community cares enough to keep voicing their opinion. I'm hearing from a lot of people who want the project salvaged, and to that end, that's what I'm going to try to keep doing. At first, I got a little bit—well, my mother used to have a phrase for it, but I won't use that one—upset about it.
 there is too much to leave on the table in letting that opportunity, not just for Southwest Rockford, but for the western portion of the Rock Valley College region. With the kind of training that that program will bring, I'm still gonna be pushing for that. And I have a couple of questions I wanted to ask in regard to that. One is,
 What happens when a public building is purchased by a government entity and then leases space to a for-profit entity? Does the for-profit entity have to pay a pro rata share of property taxes or is the property tax exemption lost on the entire space?
 So I'm not an attorney, but my opinion would be that they wouldn't have to be paying property taxes, but we can look up the answer and find out unless Director Haggerty already has that answer. I believe it's prorated, but I'll confirm that. Awesome. I got that one quite a bit from people because that's another side of it and what we lose. And what happens, if anything, to the money that we have already received from,
 for the redevelopment is any of that money forfeited mr cagnone so we have you know several funding sources where we had secured grant dollars one of those would be from the economic development administration the eda we have not spent any of those dollars at at this point in time um
 Not that we haven't spent dollars in regards to engineering costs associated with those grant improvements, but technically we haven't spent any EDA funding. That was dollars that we had spent regarding the design of it.
 As it relates to the other grant funding, the US EPA, we have received fundings and we've received fundings over several years to clean that property up. I don't believe we have to return any of that, if that's the question. Even if we wanted to tear it down. But I was thinking more about the actual development dollars. And are we too late to apply for the next round of new market tax credits?
 And let me clarify given that they would feel I'm sure a little uncomfortable because you've got a major partner saying I don't want to play anymore so Could are we with this? bump are we past the deadline or can we still meet that deadline if the parties come together and Reembark on this this venture. So I'm gonna probably I
 Jumping back to the EDA grant, we have notified the EDA related to RBC's intention or in the notification that they provided us and their press release related to terminating the development agreement and asked for a meeting to coordinate next steps related to those dollars.
 So that's undetermined at this point in time. As it relates to pursuing new market tax credits and the 2020 year allocation, we were mid process.
 right now and we were likely in four to six CDEs community development entities in their pipeline for applications that would go to the federal government for new market tax credits we provided an update to Baker Tilly as well related to Rock Valley College backing out of the development agreement
 So they were reaching out to a number of those CDEs to let them know that what has taken place. Could we potentially try to get back, you know, in those CDEs or in their pipeline?
 possibly i'd need to follow up with baker tilley a little more clearly but understanding how competitive it is once a partner steps out of a project such as this the likelihood of getting new market tax credits and staying in individuals pipeline is low in my opinion well then i'd like to ask as a city i want to start looking for a new developer
 or a new partner in that development still prefer to keep rock valley i believe it's very important for the advanced technical training center to to go there but concurrently someone asked what is our plan b i would like for us as a city to start working on our plan b
 which would now become plan a so we've already uh started discussions with other folks to see what their willingness would be to embark on a project over there could you include me in those of course i will be a good player and real preliminary i mean just phone calls here or there just and really taking more phone calls than anything else any setup meetings with a hundred percent will all right thank you no problem any other uh reports
 Then we'll move on to motions and resolutions to Finance and personnel committee it's gonna be Roman numeral seven C one through
 1 through 4. The first is an award of bid. This is for West State Street reconstruction phase 2 demolition package. K awarded to Northern Illinois service company of Rockford in the amount of 99800 dollars. The contract duration is 15 days. The funding source is $1,800.
 Sales tax, $24,950. And Illinois Department of Transportation, $74,850.
 Item 2 is the sale of used XTS 2500 portable radios to outside agencies. The police department requests to utilize Rock River services to facilitate the sale of up to 38 used radios. The Boone County Sheriff's Department is interested in purchasing 25 to 38 at a cost of $200 each.
 item 3 is the acceptance of a grant from the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity and to solicit bids to provide improvements to fire stations the work includes improvements at station 2 at 10 0 4 7 Street station 4 2959 Shaw Woods Drive station 5 391 North trainer Road and station 6 33 29 on State Street and
 The total grant is $195,000 with no local match required. Item four is approval of early head start childcare grant application for Winnebago County for the new five year funding period beginning on or after July 1st, 2020 through June 30th, 2025. And I would ask to suspend rule 15 to vote on that item. We have a motion and a second.
 Is there any discussion on suspending rule 15 for item number four? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor of suspending rule 15 for item four say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right, we'll suspend them. Thank you, Your Honor. With that, I would place those four items up for passage. Thank you. We have four items before you. Is there any discussion on the four items that are before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Furby. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones.
 Beck? McNeely? Shirely? Nine ayes. Thank you. Items passed. Next up we'll have New Business Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of Tanglewood Lane from Spring Creek Road to the north including the cul-de-sac. Place it up for passage.
 Thank you. There's one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? If not, clerk, will you please call the roll? Irby. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye.
 Sure. Really nice. Excellent item passes next up. We will go back to financing personnel committee. Thank you. Your honor. This is Roman numeral 8 C. Uh, 1 through 4, the 1st is an ordinance approving the video gaming terminal fee schedule to increase the number of allotted machines from 5 to 6.
 On August 8 as of August 8 2019 Item 2 is an ordinance approving the exchange of city-owned property located at 11xx railroad Avenue pin number 11 dash 26 dash 430 dash 0 1 4 that exchange would be with Gerald Paris and
 For his property located at 11 XX Railroad Avenue pin number 11 dash 26 dash 436 dash 001 this is in an effort to complete the Keith Creek Bank stabilization project item 3 in ordinance item 3 is held out and then item 4 in ordinance approving the terms and provisions applicable To the is this one up tonight item 4? No, I
 Mr. Meyer. We had the agenda item for a closed session tonight. I don't believe we're going to have that closed session. That was to discuss this matter. So item four will also be held out. My apology. I didn't see that before. So, Your Honor, up for passage 8C, items number one and two only. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the items that you have before you? Alderman Quinones. I'd like to know, do we have a list of...
 Video gaming terminals that don't have five five video games in them. We have a list we do I'd like to have that list to them. Well email that list to you any other discussion saying none clerk Will you please call the roll her be Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach? Quinones Beck McNeely Shirely. Oh
 9 ayes. So before I ask for a motion to adjourn, I just want to remind all the aldermen not only about making sure that you fill out your disclosure forms, as Attorney Meyer mentioned, but Attorney Meyer also prepared a single disclosure form for September 23rd, the public hearing, that you just simply need to sign. So before you leave, we're trying to expedite this and...
 make it easier for you. So before you leave, if you could please sign that this evening, we'd appreciate it. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and a second. Anyone want to discuss it? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.