and Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford for the demolition of 1933 South 6th Street, 1223 11th Street, 904 South 5th Street, 927 Woodlawn Avenue, 1012 Kishwaukee Street, and 512 North Avon,
 All of those together in the amount of $73,800. The funding sources, the Community Development Block Grant and Abandoned Property Program. That is the sole item. Is there a motion? Second? Second. Motion and second. Any discussion?
 Hearing none, would the clerk please, do you have to take roll call? Would the clerk please take the roll? Erke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Are there any officers' reports? Alderman Beach. City meeting Thursday, October 30th.
 And that's going to be in conjunction with the 10th ward and WRX TV. There will be a panel discussion there. They're going to show the video out of the darkness. We'd like to encourage everyone from all walks of life, law enforcement, school professionals, government, and each of our colleagues here to encourage your residents to come out that evening. It'll be at the Salvation Army, 500 South Rockford Avenue.
 from 6.30 to 8 o'clock. Again, that's in conjunction with WRX-TV, who has agreed to host this evening for us. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Beach.
 any other officers reports uh alderman rose i just i just had a quick one um the north end neighborhood association nesna is having a halloween decorating contest for their homes that will be held october 26th at 7 pm so they'll be going throughout the ward judging if anyone wants to be considered as a part of the contest they need to email
 It's NesnaVP at yahoo.com and you need to give them the exact address. They're also hosting a...
 they're working with third presbyterian church at 1221 custer avenue on saturday october 27th from 3 30 to 5 30 it says decorate your vehicles and bring your ghosts and goblins to the church parking lot we will be serving hot dogs hot cider and uh water and handing out candy at the church so that's happening in the nezna neighborhood thank you alderman canones just remind everybody
 Yeah, yeah. The Rockford Police Department has their trunk of treats this coming Monday, a week from today. So you bring all your kids out there. I think it's from 5 to 7 over at 500 block and 7th Street. The old name is up for the location then. And then I want to- Great building. Old Rockford School District? Yes.
 5017th Street, yes, corner 7th between 4th and 5th. Right. And I wanted also to say this, if any Alderman here has a fire department in their ward, I just had a tour one of them here Thursday, and I think every Alderman should tour the fire department and see what our guys are doing. I really learned a lot from them, and it was a good experience with me. I recommend that the Alderman visit their fire departments and their wards.
 thank you alderman thunberg anyone else with officers reports hearing none do we have a closed session no no closed session is there a motion so move second second all in favor signify with aye aye aye we're adjourned
 Helping that Mary's fever out. Okay, good.