to foreclose session in order to discuss labor negotiations and pending litigation matters. Is there a motion? Roll call. Aye. Aye. Item passes. We're in closed session. Moment of the uninsured motorist claim filed by the estate of officer Jamie Cox, deceased.
 for the amount not to exceed the city of rockford self-insured retention amount of five hundred thousand dollars i move to suspend rule 15 your honor all those in favor say aye aye okay uh place that up for passage rule 15 is suspended you want to do a roll call vote or okay yes oh is there a is there a motion to move it forward i'm sorry yes all right
 All those in favor say aye. Aye. Okay. We need a roll call for that, too. Okay. Aye. Yes, three. Two versus. Aye. For me? Aye. Urban? Aye. Goldman? Aye. Aye. Pete? Aye. Do you know who that is? Shirelli? Aye. Thank you. Then we need a roll call for the passage, right? What's that? Oh, which is under new business? So under the item passes, under new business, we have...
 Is that under finance or? Alderman Hervey will read this one in under the Finance Committee. Resolutions, let's see, I'm sorry. It's on the back of it. It's on the very back. Yeah. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the terms. No, I'm sorry, that's not. Yeah, that's it. Oh, for the AFSCME? Yep. Okay, sorry. An ordinance approving the terms and provisions applicable
 Um, to the central reporting unit, CRU bargaining members in the. 1058 collective bargaining agreement, the terms include a 2%. Wage increase in 2019, 2020. And 2021 for bargaining units, employees effective on January 1st of each respective year. The agreement also includes.
 and changes to article 15.2 uh insurance coverage and coverages and contributions and a 300 stipend for cru insurance participants and i'd move to suspend rule 15. okay we'll take a voice vote on that all those in favor say aye aye opposed that that suspension of rule 15 passes i would move to place that item up for passage
 Is there a second? Okay roll call or? All right the item passes as well. Is there a motion to adjourn? Officer's reports. Oh sure.
 We'll do officers reports. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to remind Fifth Ward residents that we will not have a meeting this Thursday. And instead, we will be, I hope everyone will join in with Swedish American and our wonderful Fire Department 3 on Marcassano Drive. We will be having a trunk or treat for the kids.
 It's going to be a lot of fun. They've decorated. I know the fire station probably. I don't think we can drive the trucks around with Halloween decorations on them in the event of an emergency, but it's going to be a lot of fun. Marcosano Drive will be closed so that kids can go safely back and forth, and I think they're going to have a lot of fun. So all of you, please bring your kitties, your friends, your neighbors, and we hope they all enjoy themselves. That will be from 530 until 730.
 Also, anyone correct me if I get this wrong, but the City of Rockford's trick-or-treat times are 5.30 until 7.30 p.m.
 so that will be the safe time and ask everyone to please be especially careful they get excited kids are going to run across the street they're going to dash around and some will not be supervised by their parents so please be extremely careful and watch out and if you want a safe place to take the kids please do so i believe the trunk or treat with the school district and the fire department is tonight
 Police department. It's tomorrow? It is. It was tonight. Okay, so never mind. All right. Thank you. Alderwoman Thompson. Thank you.
 Thank you. I just wanted to remind everyone about the senior luncheon. We have two more weeks and half of you haven't paid, so divvy up because I have to get the gifts. And also, I failed to put on the list if you're going to serve or not. I know the majority of you have said they would, but please make your commitments to me because we've got 200 seniors, 200 seniors.
 that have signed up to attend this luncheon. And I want to thank Leticia for her staff and hard work that they've done in meeting with me and putting this all together. So I need your money or you're first born. Any further reports? All right, seeing none, is there a motion to adjourn? All those in favor say aye. We are adjourned.
 I'll give you mine.