Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford Special City Council meeting for Monday, October 28th, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee, Toomber, Frost, Tarina, Frunty, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey. 11 ayes. Excellent we have a quorum will go to petitions and communications, and I believe alderman frost has a bit opening Yes, there's a bit opening for city-owned property located 605 North Main Street commonly known as the army building and I have a Bitter here from the Rockford Arts Council in the bid amount is $1,000 with them 10% in the the form of a postal money order site presume that qualifies mr. Myers certified funds all right thank you I will give that Thank you. Next, we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development or code and regulations. We'll go to finance and personnel. And back to you, Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is the contract renewal for third-party administrator for medical and hospital benefits for the City of Rockford Health Insurance plan with Blue Cross Blue Shield. The contract amount rates of $56.05 per employee per month for the PPO and $4.89 per employee per month for the PPO. The total estimated annual administration costs of $600,840 are based on 918 PPO participants and 283 HSA participants. The counter-regulation is one year, and the funding source is the Health Insurance Fund. Number two is a contract renewal to change self-refunded City of Rockford Health Insurance plan for dental coverage with Blue Cross Blue Shield for the contract amount of $3.50 per employee per month. Based on a monthly enrollment of 1,250 employees, the total estimated annual administration costs are $52,500. This includes a two-year guarantee versus a $20,000 transition credit and a $1 discount in medical administration rates. The contract duration is one year, and the funding source is the health insurance fund. Number three is the contract renewal for the employer-paid group term life insurance for CROC with MetLife Insurance. But the contract amounts of $0.08 per $1,000 for life insurance and $0.25 per $1,000 for accidental death and disability. The contract duration is one year, and the funding source is also the health insurance fund. I place these three matters before you. Thank you, counsel. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Dirke. Aye. Toomer frost I Tarina fronty Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey 11 ice excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion We have a second discussion, you know discussion all those in favor say aye aye