Council, our police and fire department, our school district, and every citizen that make up this great city called Rockford, Illinois. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Durkee.
 McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 12 present.
 Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Just as a reminder, we've got a few items, just a couple items of business tonight. We will do our public participation, and I just want to make one or two announcements at the end and see if anybody has any other council officers' reports to give. Our first order of business, however, will be our public speakers.
 As a reminder, our public speakers have three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Youssef. Prophet Youssef Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the Book of Sirach, the 40th chapter, the 27th verse, it says, The fear of God is a paradise of blessing. What I want to speak about tonight, bus service is essential to rock with economic growth.
 In many ways, the bus transportation infrastructure should be utilized by public transportation. A bus transportation system intended to provide a more better way to get people to work, to health care, to education, to shop, these are all components of commerce. And when provided to a larger number of people in a single system, can reduce energy consumption, reduce wear and tear on the roads, and provide a cost-effectively consistent means for people to be productive participants.
 in the economy. Presently, I am seeing the growing definition of a need for such a system here in Rockwood to support our future. The present system in Rockwood is a good start, but it's locked within the city boundaries. A more comprehensive system will better match workers with jobs. We have companies that are looking for workers, and a barrier to getting good employers has been the lack of bus service. We have been working with
 potential new companies looking to come to Rockford and one of the first questions they ask is what type of bus service system we have. If a company is going to bring 10,000 to 20,000 good paying jobs with benefits to Rockford, they want to know that these workers can get to and from work every day. I've also noticed that the cost of transportation is getting much more expensive, especially fuel prices. The cost of transportation is taking more and more of the paycheck and putting
 employee and employer. It is not hard to see that some families have to make tough choices between buying gas or food. A comprehensive start to a better bus service program here in Rockford is a vital component to moving Rockford economy forward. Programs are available to fund such a system
 without any local tax or cost. The design of such a system is based on the eye toward the future and not the habit patterns of the past. Without it, our economy in Iraq would not become strong like it should. By using my two systems, the MIS system and your 12 resources and have the bus run 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, fix and flex rock, you
 put 80,000 people to work in Rockford. This would help lower your unemployment rate, your homeless rate, your poverty rate, and your crime rate at the same time, and help raise more revenue for Rockford so your budget will be balanced. You wouldn't have to depend on them idiots in Washington or Springfield to help you. You have enough money to open single mental hospitals so people can get mental health treatment. If you use my tool system
 and I bet you $1,000 you could bring in a rock for $4,950,375,150 and they said why the hell would you cut public transportation it's been proven most people are riding buses now they're leaving their cars alone cost insurance, everything 66% ridership and paratransit and then, oh, the governor won't get you know this, he's anti-union thank you for allowing me to speak
 Thank you. Our next speaker is Jennifer Smith. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I come tonight with thanks to you and particularly to the Finance Committee for voting to approve funds to complete the survey on Spring Creek for the multi-use path that's being proposed. I also want to thank Mr. Vittner and his staff at Public Works for making sure that survey was completed and the feasibility study is moving forward. We are excited to get some more updates today about that, and so I'm excited to hear that it's moving forward, not only as someone who has...
 worked as a citizen to see that go forward and people learn more about it, but also knowing that it's been a priority in plans for about 20 years. So congratulations to you on seeing something move forward, and I hope that it will go forward to completion. I also want to note that this plan potentially touches about 10 of the 16 themes in your
 implementation supplement to the 2020 plan. So it covers a lot of bases as far as moving your strategies forward for the city. And so I just come tonight with thanks to you for moving that forward. I do have one request that you commit to voting yes when it's brought forward to you to include it in the future CIP.
 whether it's a phased approach or something else, I hope that you will vote yes to move that project forward. And also, just to offer my support as a citizen and a small group of people who are very passionate about this project, we've garnered about 2,000 or more signatures in support of the project.
 If we can be of any reference to you for information about what bike paths might mean and multi-use paths mean to a community, how it connects to those 10 themes within the implementation plan, if we can be of any support to you, I didn't ask him ahead of time, but Alderman Beck, who is my alderman, can get you in touch with me, and we'd be happy to help in whatever way we can, whether it was resources, time, or energy. We're here for your disposal. So thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the men and all the women and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs verse 29 and 25 say, Fear people can hamper everything you try to do in extreme forms that can make you afraid to leave your home. I'm going to go off by talking about this weekend and Thursday. I was able to intervene
 A young female that was, they videoed her having sex on tape and they put it on Facebook. She got, I prevented them from getting into a fight. They had a fight last week, but this weekend they wound up getting into another fight. I want to talk about domestic violence. I also want to mention the fact the intervener saying a female with his one male was trying not to fight her.
 she just kept on going at them and going at them and she wouldn't stop even with me standing there and pointing that RHA camera, the camera seeing you and the other residents is seeing it too. I'm going to go off saying we are near the end of the year. We talk about how the police around the country are killing our youth. However, we do not talk much about black on black crime and domestic violence. I have found myself in the middle of much
 domestic violence and at-risk youth. We have babies raising babies on top of that. We have too many of our young African American sisters that feel that they should take care of their child and some of these dysfunctional African American males out of work, uneducated, for
 felons, gangbangers, dope-dealing brothers with their pants hanging off their butt. We have a lot of our young mothers that want our help. However, when you do try to help them, some of them still go back to the same old domestic violent relationship. We have too many of our young mothers that are still in a relationship with violent young men that's not working a job and that have been banned from housing.
 Nevertheless, they keep letting them come back into their homes. We are losing too many of our young youth to gangs, drugs, violence, and the prison system. The family every year more than 3 million children with domestic violence in their home. Children who live in homes where there is domestic violence are suffering abuse
 or neglect at a high rate, 30 to 60 percent. Some of our so-called men feel that the only way that they can show that they are a man is by hitting on a woman, and that is dead wrong. Some of our sisters are so angry that they feel that they can say and do anything to a man because they know that they can use the law and have him locked up. By the way, the law is going to be on her side before he will believe that man. Oh, I can teach a class on this subject.
 I know that I only got three minutes, so I'm not going to go here with this subject. We not only need to talk about domestic violence, we need to take positive steps to lower the number of domestic violence that is committed by both male and female. So this is why I have to talk about our history.
 Too many of our young people, I listen to what they have to say. Most of them do not care about what happened in the past with Dr. King, Malcolm X, or why a black woman can get a job before a black man can, or think it's okay to use the N-word. So this is something we cannot tolerate. We as a community, we should start working together to eliminate this problem. But for black men... My timer for whatever reason didn't go off tonight, but I do want to assure you that your time is up.
 Okay, I'll just finish this sentence. People really assume that we are good people, worthy of a long and prosperous existence. And I want to mention the fact that we have Pastor Jeffrey Brown that was here last week, and he's coming back here again this week. And he has done something which no one else has been able to do. He has brought clergy together with clergy who couldn't get along. He has found a way to get these clergy to work together.
 We not only is walking the streets at night, but we on style walking the streets during the daytime also on the weekends. Thank you for giving me that time. I'll be back. Thank you. Our next and final speaker this evening is Toby Haldeman. What does this flag mean to you? Stop the violence and the silence.
 Last week, I spoke about the hazardous waste center on Kishwaukee and said that they no longer take paint. I was wrong. They do take paint, but only latex. Thank you, Mr. C., for the correct information. Also last week, I was at a meeting where parking and lighting on Broadway were discussed.
 I'll talk to you about the lighting issue. On Broadway, between 6th and 7th Street, we have six streetlights. 7th to 8th, again, six streetlights. From 8th to 9th, six streetlights. Then we get to 9th and 10th. Guess how many lights? Now, come on, guess. Six? Nope. Five? Oh, I wish. Four? Not even close. Three? If only. Okay.
 Two? Yes. There are only two streetlights on Broadway between 9th and 10th Street, and they are at the intersections. I have talked to Mr. Vittner, and I believe he is doing his best, but I think we need to put some pressure on ComEd. I urge each of you, aldermen and the mayor, to contact Mr. Galbrook.
 who I believe took over the position of Mr. Calligan. Please help put lights back on the crime-filled street of Broadway. Please make the call. Speaking of Broadway, what can happen in the span of 12 hours on Broadway?
 from out my window, 2.54 a.m. last night. My neighbor's alarm goes off. I rush to the window to see what's happening. I grab the phone, call the police. I don't see any activity, no one running away, no speeding cars. I told dispatch that I would wait at my window until the police arrived to see if anyone would run from the building. I will not embarrass the police department on how long it took for their response time, but I will tell you that the building is the District 2 police station.
 And just hours ago, another accident at Broadway and Parmalee Street. This is the fourth or fifth accident there this year alone. No injuries, but an ambulance with lights and sirens was involved. And after my speech last week, I rode the elevator down with John Brantley. We were discussing Hillary Clinocchio and her lies and the people that died because of her decisions. While we were down in the lobby, he said that Hillary Clinocchio didn't kill those people, it was Bush.
 I think John misunderstood who the people were that died. I wasn't only talking about Benghazi or the war in Iraq. I was also talking about...
 How when her and Billy were in charge in Arkansas and how they were selling AIDS and HIV-tainted blood to hemophiliac centers that infected thousands and killed hundreds. And let's not forget Whitewater, Hillary stealing bank accounts from little old ladies. Hillary has no moral compass. After our conversation, we parted ways. Despite our great differences about Hillary the liar, there were no golf clubs involved. I will not be silent. They will be heard. Thank you.
 Thank you to our speakers this evening. So we'll move on to committee reports. We have one report. This is, I believe, finance. I'll run back to you. I'll take this. Thank you, Your Honor. Excuse me. All right.
 Under committee reports to Roman Rule 2, Item 1, we have a committee report recommending approval of the intergovernmental agreement for police services between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Alderman Otto. Thank you. It was said a while ago that crime wasn't in housing. It was around housing.
 Now there needs to be an agreement that housing is gonna pay for police to be in housing. We had shootings at the mall, at the clock tower, at Cliff Breakers, on every one of our streets. There's crime all over. So what about the rest of the city? Don't they deserve, I mean, I know housing is paying for it, but our taxes, our citizens pay for it in the general fund.
 So, I mean, why does it be one has to be centralized in one area? It's all over. Alderman Beck, did you have your hand up? Yeah, just to make sure that all the aldermen understand, these are extra officers that are going to be available not only to respond to RHA requests,
 related issues, but also would be available to respond to citywide issues. And it's additional funding that we don't have. It's putting extra bodies on the street. So to my perspective, it's really a win-win situation, and I'm really appreciative of the police department and RHA for working this out. Thanks. Thank you, Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you, Mayor. I, too, agree with Alderman Beckett. Right now our authorized police force is 290. This will increase it to 297. We've had an agreement in the past with RHA where we had 10 officers who were stationed and serving the RHA properties. These seven officers, I think the amount of information, the amount of communication and
 community building that we can do with our own officers in there far exceed any also extra expense that we may have with this. I do understand that the RHA is
 taking on the vast significant burden of the financial costs, but I think this is a win-win. I think we increase communication with residents. If you've been to a number of these developments, as this is being talked about, residents are literally clapping and excited that the officers are coming back to RHA to build these relationships.
 The amount of information that we'll get from a procedural standpoint will benefit us, and I'm strongly in support of this collaboration. Thank you. We'll go around. There's a number of hands. Alleman Hervey, I think, was next, then Alleman Thompson-Kelley, then Alleman Newberg.
 Chair agrees with Alderman Odo, but I would just say one thing. I don't believe that the crime is outside of RHA properties. I think that many of the people who live in these poorly designed, dense, high poverty, racially isolated units that we have that are historical failures are victims.
 of predatory, primarily men, of people who see poor children lumped together who have nothing and are easy targets for gang organization, drug sales. I've watched it for the better part of my 61 years, and it hasn't changed.
 So I do believe that there is a different need for a police presence in these kinds of properties. I live in a very poor neighborhood, but I can guarantee that there's more predatory criminal activity in Black Hawk than there is in the entire Fifth Ward combined.
 I hate to see what happens to these people. It's one of the reasons that I'm so against and so opposed to some of the redesign of housing that's going on in Rockford, regardless of what people think my motives may be. I've watched this victimization for too many years.
 Second, I want to give Chief O'Shea the chance to try some methods, and he believes that this is going to help to interdict crime significantly. I think it will. If you can interdict gang activity in two key places in Rockford, you will get rid of a lot of the teenage shooting because these kids have no fear, they have no sense of mortality. They will shoot anybody and anything.
 It's infecting the schools. It's infecting what you see going on out in the community. So I want to give him the opportunity to do that, and I think by being able to gather intelligence and work within our housing developments, I'm not saying the people there are criminal, but I think that's going to go a long way to interdicting some of our crimes. So I am going to support it, even if I'm holding my breath, just a little bit about some of the potential costs. All in the time, Kelly.
 I guess I've been down here too long because we haven't been here before. We agreed a few years ago to venture into the same type of an agreement, but we got into it after a couple of years and the dollar amounts start rising up and Rockford Housing Authority discontinued the services that we've had.
 I have several different concerns. I have a concern that we have not educated the public, the residents of this community, on how it will work. The extra officers at Rockford Housing Authority will be putting the bill simply because they
 Comments that I have heard is that, what about me as a taxpayer? Don't I deserve the same type of security care officers on the streets? So I think one of the things that we need to do is educate the community on the workings of how this will work.
 The other thing that I think we need to look at too is listening to Mr. Kluwer and some of the decisions from the Rockford Housing Authority Board, they're getting out of the rental business.
 they're phasing out owning units and Gorman Company is taking over a lot of their management and it's my understanding but I could be wrong that eventually Gorman will have all their units eventually now I don't know.
 Don't know for sure. I just know these are comments that has been made. So are we entering an agreement that possibly will be phased out in the future? And how long do we need? And we need to educate the public on it and how long are these agreements that we need to let the public know what agreement we're in, the dollar amount it is, and it's not going to have a direct effect on their security nor their police.
 Chief O'Shea, Mr. Hayes, I don't know if either of you want to take those questions. The agreement that we are entering into is initially two years, but it has to be re-upped every 12 months, every year after. And they have to give a 12-month notice if they're going to back out of the agreement so we can absorb those officers back through natural attrition over the 12 months so there would be no increase. So we go from 297 officers back down to 290, our current authorized strength, so there would be no cost to the city if that were to happen.
 Thank you. Alderman Neuberg was next, then we'll get back to Alderman Hodel. Thank you. A couple of questions. One, if an officer is assigned to a Rockford Housing Authority area and there is a disturbance or a police call into the police a block or two or three houses away, is that officer prohibited to go to that?
 Would he be called, would it be the closest officer to that call? Or would it be someone other than the Rockford Housing Authority? The other question is, when is this to take place? I mean, it's six officers and one sergeant, but I mean, when does this take place? We have, that would put us seven officers, or six officers and a sergeant short. So how are you going to take?
 absorb that before this takes effect. Chief O'Shea. The first question answer is yes, that officer. They're still Rockford City police officers. They will go to whatever crime they're dispatched to. Their primary job would be to handle resident housing authority areas. However, if they're closest to a call, they could be dispatched to that call, especially high priority calls. They're gonna go. They're still Rockford City police officers, so they cover the entire jurisdiction of the city. And then, go ahead.
 Explain a high priority call. Calls are prioritized zero through nine, depending on high priority. I can give you examples. I can't explain it. A shooting call or an in-progress alarm call or a fight in progress call. I mean, they're all banked out, but a report call later on, like an abandoned car, would not be a high priority call. Thank you.
 And then your second question was about phasing them in. We're not taking, or my plan is to not take six officers and a sergeant right now as soon as we sign this agreement and pull them out of the patrol division and assign them to RHA. The plan is to phase them in over time.
 Initially putting one sergeant in there, have that sergeant report back to command staff on an operational plan of what they plan to do with the officers, where they need to deploy them, sort of a strategic plan, if you will, and then implement and phase in the officers over time as we get some of our new recruits off of training and back into the patrol division and start putting in the officers, whether it be one at a time or two at a time, over the next three to four months. Thank you.
 Follow-up, please. Sure. Okay, so that would be six officers and one sergeant. It's a two-year agreement and then additional 12-month period.
 Right, every 12, correct. You have to give a 12-month, either the city or the RHA could choose to back out of the agreement after 12 months, or I'm sorry, with 12-month notice. So if we didn't like the agreement and we didn't think it was beneficial to us and we weren't getting the community involvement and community engagement that we liked, we could back out, say,
 12 months from now, tell the RHA we're not gonna staff it anymore, and same with RHA, if they say they don't want to staff it, or they don't want to fund it, 12 months from now, they back out. So that would give the city, we would have, we have 290 officers now. We're taking seven, but we're waiting till we get an additional seven, so our number would still be 290. Say if this falls through in three years, and we're still at 290,
 And RHA says we don't need seven officers, we only need three or we need none. Would those officers then be absorbed back into the Rockford Police Department or would we have to go down to a certain number? We would absorb those seven positions. In theory, we'll be at full strength of 297 officers with these seven additional officers.
 we are almost never at 290 officers. There's always attrition, there's retirements, there's injuries. We're never at that authorized strength number, or if we are, it's such a short time that we're there before we lose officers again. So in theory, we're going up to 297 total authorized, but I don't know if we'll actually get to the 297. One follow-up. One more. The sergeant
 Will he report to you or will he report to Ron Clore?
 The sergeant will report to the Special Operations Group Lieutenant. At this current time, it's Lieutenant Bruno who falls under the investigative division. Falls under the Rockford Police Department. Yeah, they're still Rockford City police officers. They don't work for RHA. RHA is paying the city for the officers' salaries and costs. But they're still Rockford City police officers, and they remain under our command and control, sort of similar to like a school resource officer.
 Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Otto had a follow-up and then I'll go to Alderman Beach. Thank you. I just want to make it clear it was not my saying that crime is not in housing. We all know that it is. That was Mr. Kloers reassuring us time and time again that crime was around housing, not in housing. You say we want to build with the community and that we need to be in there, but they're not talking now.
 they're not giving information now when there's a shooting, when there's activity going on. And Fairgrounds is now under the control of Gorman. That was signed over to them months ago. And Roncler did say he wants to get out of the housing business, and that's going to be coming up soon. So then who are we?
 Who is paying? Because it won't be Ron Clure. Gorman has fairgrounds now. They're soon going to be taking over Blackhawk. So then who will be paying? Will RHA still be paying for these officers? Because then technically it is a management company.
 And the management company has to pay for it, just like at Auburn Manor and Concord. The management company has to pay for their own private security. So will Gorman then take over that contract? Ms. Trace, do you want to take that? And before you stop, if they're going into fairgrounds, Gorman already has that, so who's paying for it?
 Is Ron Kloer paying for Fairgrounds and Blackhawk, or is Gorman pitching in some money since he's the management company? Mr. Hayes, do you want to take that? So the agreements with RHA were to cover the RHA.
 Facilities, that will be all the facilities. It does include fairgrounds right now in the contract. If that's changing, those operational changes will be noted. If it becomes unacceptable to the city, we can give the notice and retreat from the agreement. The facilities being covered are the family developments.
 of RHA. So that's all of their developments at this point in time. We won't be working for, and in my view, we won't be being paid by Gorman, but I don't know if there's an arrangement, might be an arrangement between Gorman and RHA about those costs. We can look into that, but that hasn't been part of our discussion with the Housing Authority. Chief, do you have any follow-up on that? No. The only thing I would add, or maybe this is a question, during the course of this first
 term of the agreement, the new town development is scheduled to be completed, would our officers' assignments include new town or is that separate? It would if they fall under the RHA. If it's an RHA property and I'm... I don't think it is. That's why my... I think my... I don't think it would, but I would ask for clarification.
 That's different from fairgrounds where even though there's a management agreement, RHA, it's still RHA's property, which would be different from Newtown. But Mr. Hayes, would you know how to answer that? The Newtown facility is not part of our coverage agreement at this point in time. I don't know whether the RHA might request that later, but it's not part of the agreement today as drafted. And that would be, there would be, I know they have a private security plan for the
 Newtown because that is a separate property once that agreement I believe is in place. It'll be part of the sister company, Bridge, I can't remember the name of it. Bridge Alliance. Bridge Alliance, I believe. Other questions? All of them in terms of Kelly, then back to all of them in Herbie. Well, I'm a bit concerned right now. Are we going to be looking at
 making this agreement with Rockford Housing Authority, but in yet Rockford Housing Authority has not identified all their property and it's only certain properties that we're going to be in contract with. You know, I...
 The only reason I'm concerned is because I don't know if any, Jim may remember, us going through this before. And this entire discussion happened before where we thought it would be a win-win situation with our officers, and it didn't. So that's a concern. It's not that I'm against it.
 the proposal. It's just that I want to make sure that we all are on the same page as what services are going to be provided. And the most important thing, our residents, the first thing they scream about is crying. I think the police department or our PR department or whomever should definitely put out information so they understand what's happening with this contract.
 So two things I'll just provide as a point of information and ask staff to clarify the extent I may have missed something. First of all, the contract with RHA would cover the family developments exclusively, I believe. Your Honor, I've got a list of the developments covered, and I'd be happy to read them off.
 So we'll cover the family developments. The other thing that's different between this agreement versus ones that we had in the past is the excellent amount of flexibility that Chief O'Shea and his team have been able to negotiate within the agreement, which will allow, in many respects, a lot of piloting. Those were negotiated with union piloting, the level of flexibility that our current main contract, primary contract,
 does not allow with the PBPA. Chief O'Shea, can you comment on that a little bit and what you're looking to obtain in that flexibility? Right now under the current structure, everyone has a structured schedule. Under the current collective bargaining agreement, one of the caveats of the RHA was to have them on an unstructured schedule with the sergeant setting rules
 and agreeing with the officers on the days that they would work on the five days a week, eight hour schedules. So instead of just working four 10 hour days and being gone for three days, the officers and the sergeant have the flexibility of,
 picking, I don't want to say picking days off, but if they work six days in a row and then they take off two days but they need three people on Sunday, they kind of massage the schedule so to speak. It's a pretty effective way to try and cover most of the hours of most of the days. Now it's not overnight hours or anything, it's generally a 10 in the morning until 10 at night type hour schedule, but with the union or the association has been
 amenable to us and working with us to have the flexibility for these six officers and the sergeants so kind of get the most bang for our buck so to speak and it works well for the officers as well it's kind of a
 a good schedule both sides of the street, so to speak. And that's in stark contrast to what I recall the prior agreement with RHA was, which had a built-in, it seemed, amount of overtime and a lack of flexibility in assignments with the dedicated RHA unit.
 And then when we were reporting those costs and RHA was unwilling to pay for those escalating costs and lost some of the grant funding, it just became untenable. We were having to absorb all those costs.
 I asked those questions and I think they're very good questions to ask because I wanted to know specifically are we going to get in the same problems we had the last time and I've been assured that because of the flexibility that was negotiated within the agreement that I could see how that would work and my hope is that it's something that if it works effectively for this unit, that level of flexibility might, you know, as many of the council members may recall,
 We tried to move towards a 12-hour shift. Right now we've got this extremely costly 10-hour shift structure, which is probably, you know, if the options are 8, 10, and 12, 10 is probably the most expensive that we can have. And so I'm hoping for success here. We'll be monitoring it closely. But I think it's a good step from a staffing and fiscal management standpoint. Alderman Beach, I think you were next.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I think that's one of the things that interests me the most is the flexibility that comes. And the fact that we have an authorized strength of 290 doesn't mean we have 290 on the street. We have a lot less than that, and this gives us seven more on the street. That's very good for us in the city. Plus the flexibility that goes with it, I think, is the win. The chief thinks it's good for us, and I think we need to go that direction. Thank you. Alderman Irby. Thank you.
 I want first Mr. Hayes to, if he would list the places that are covered under the agreement. I'm sorry, I didn't see them. Mr. Hayes? So the list is Black Hawk Courts, Fairground Valley, Oregon Keys, Brewington Oaks, Summit Green, Buckbee Development, Midvale Development, Park Terrace, North Main Manor, and Olsen Plaza.
 Those are the developments that the officers can be assigned to, and that's the plan that the sergeant will be developing with RHA. And, you know, given the resources, these are the programs that we'll be responding, the different areas we'll be responding to, and that's part of what that sergeant will be working out with RHA over the next couple of months. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing no further discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getses. Aye.
 McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Otto? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Matter passes. Thank you. Now we'll move on to the same matter as it relates to the ordinance that would cover the committee report we just discussed. Alderman Beck? Thank you, Your Honor. And I would first call the item 1.
 Do we need a suspension, Mr. Hayes? Yes, sir. All those in favor of the suspension of the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, seven. That point is up for passage. That is up for passage. There's no discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Cheerily. Aye.
 12.9, Your Honor. The letter passes. I just wanted to give a short block of time if anybody's got comments. The one thing, our officer's report, the one thing I want to announce is that we had invited feedback. Mr. Hayes sent out an email earlier in the day to see if there were agenda items that folks wanted to discuss or the council wanted to discuss next week. Not hearing anything back.
 I plan on canceling the meeting unless there is a request for a specific topic. Next week, next Monday would be our fifth Monday of the month. So we don't have items specifically scheduled for special discussion. So barring no new items, we would, if the council approves, we would cancel next week unless there's objection.
 We will do that. Further, Officer Port, Solvamore Harvey. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple things. The Fifth Ward meeting is going to be tomorrow night. Normally it would be Thursday, but Thursday is the 100th anniversary celebration for Booker Washington Center, 100 years, and they will have, I think, the oldest surviving great-great
 grandson or great great great grandson of Booker T. Washington will be at the event. So that's going to be Thursday. I'll let someone else say where because I forgot to bring my card. So the ward meeting will be tomorrow at 6 p.m. We're going to meet at the Ethnic Heritage Museum in their new annex.
 Well, it's not new, but we're going to meet there. I do apologize. I was told that the sidewalks would be poured on South Main, like everything else with South Main. It's not on time.
 So we will be able to park in the parking lot at Morgan and Main, but you're going to have to make your way down the street or park on Loomis and just sort of get in the best we can. I apologize, but I was told that it was done, and when I looked down the street, it looked like it was done, but it's not finished. So tomorrow, 6 p.m., Ethnic Heritage Museum,
 I want to make a comment on the shootings that have been occurring at some of the hotels, especially the one with the five people. There is a subculture, if you will,
 that has these things that they call birthday parties or retirement parties or whatever they are. They're not parties. They are pop-up nightclubs, and they need to be viewed as such. And that's why you've got shootings. That's why you have these fights that are taking place. They send out postcards. I'm not gonna use this one because it's not the same thing. But these are pop-up nightclubs because we don't have nightclubs
 and clubs for the African American community in Rockford because knuckleheads go and shoot them up, they take their fights and their beefs there, and every single one that we have is closed. I am infuriated that On the Rocks, which had city support and was an absolutely beautiful place to go,
 Sit and have a nice time and then the knuckleheads come in they have destroyed every Single black nightclub that we've had in Rockford, and I really don't care if people get mad at me for saying that it's the truth We have nowhere to go we have no nice place That we can go and socialize play cards have a drink you can't do it because of that and
 And at some point, I'm not sure where it is, that we're going to get sick and tired of people destroying our community. We have nothing. These are not parties. They are pop-up nightclubs, and we ought to ban them. I can't remember one when there hasn't been some kind of problem, a fight in the parking lot. Gee whiz, almost each one. Each of our hotels, most of them, the bigger ones,
 have had some kind of disturbance at one of these so-called parties. These kinds of cards, they put them in beauty shops. It's my birthday, and I'm inviting people through postcards throughout the city. That's not a birthday party. I mean, it really isn't. So we either need to have a name for it,
 where it has to be vetted and approved, or we need to just ban them outright and give our hotels, I know what they're afraid of. They're afraid if they say no, they're gonna be called racist or get some kind of discrimination lawsuit. And I understand that fear, but they need to stop doing it because these problems will continue to happen. It's a bad atmosphere.
 And as I said, it's a nightclub without the kinds of protections that we usually require. Thank you. If I could just comment on that point I failed to mention during my officer's report. Staff is investigating legal code enforcement as well as liquor. It will be a Liquor Commission-related investigation investigation.
 involving the event that just happened over the weekend at Cliff Breakers, similar to what we're looking at for Clock Tower. As those reports are gathered, a recommendation will be given to me as Liquor Commissioner on any potential action just related to liquor license. Again, those investigations and reports are still being developed, but we will be looking at that.
 And I appreciate the concern and the comments. We want to make sure that we are doing everything we can to manage the portfolio of hotels and ensure that we've got both actual and perceived safety within all of our hotel and hospitality marketplace. All in time, Ms. Kelly. On a brighter note, I remember what was going around that time of year again for our senior luncheon.
 and I've started the envelope going around for our seniors. The luncheon will take place November the 16th,
 at the Salvation Army, the 500 South Rockford Avenue. The luncheon will start about 11.30, but I'm asking the aldermen and the department heads to possibly be there at 11.15 because the seniors, to walk around, they do like to chat with us and feel that we care about what we're doing and they look forward to it every year. I've already started getting phone calls
 from seniors wanting to know whether or not their alderman is going to be there so I would greatly appreciate the support that we've had in the past from the department as well as the alderman in supporting our seniors in this community and don't forget your pledges. Thank you. Further officer's reports? Alden McNeely. Thank you Mr. Mayor and thank you Alderman Hervey.
 Booker Washington dinner, 100th celebration dinner is this Thursday, it's at Giovanni's. I would encourage individuals to contact Booker Washington Center to get all the information necessary, the cost of the dinner, the timing of it. It's going to be a great celebration. I am certainly interested in meeting the young man that's descended from Booker Washington
 I believe that this is an organization that truly is a benefit to the community, and I would like to see that it move forward, and I certainly would like for individuals to participate in this dinner and other activities that they have for the 100-year celebration. Also on Saturday, the Cubs won!
 I have my T-shirt on. I'm a big Cubs fan, and I want to encourage them and cheer them on as they move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Any further officers' reports? Hearing none, is there a motion to adjourn our special meeting? Moved. Seconded. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. I have it. Thank you. We still have two more committees, Mr. Reilly.