Good evening. We will call to order the City of Bradford's Special City Council meeting for Monday, October 24th, 2022. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logerman. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Here. Bonnie 13 present excellent. We have a quorum. We have a short agenda. We'll go to appointments laid over There are three appointments up these three are time-sensitive We have an appointment from mayor Morris of Belvedere, which is appointment three Gina Delrose We have an appointment from chairman Shirely of Winnebago County and that's appointment of Dorothy red and then we have a neighborhood a Member at large representing a neighborhood which is Steve Booth who is the president of Orchid neighborhood Would anyone be willing to entertain a motion to suspend rule 18? We have a motion We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion simply on suspending rule 18? No discussion all those in favor say aye Those opposed. Okay. Next up. We have the three appointments. Is there any discussion on those three appointments? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, thank you. Next we'll move to motions and resolutions, and we have one item under finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, number one is an acceptance of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Closing the Gap with Social Detriments of Health Accelerator Plans grant award in the amount of $124,961. Grant funds will support staff training and collaborative community conversations. The project coordinator hired under this grant will be able to coordinate with the existing frontline program staff and management teams within the divisions to aid in the overall planning efforts. Excellent. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item seeing none clerk? Will you please call the roll jerky? logan frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 13 eyes Excellent. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion we have a second any discussion no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed have a wonderful night