Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, November 6, 2023. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Ogeman, Tunberg, Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Bailey, Bonney. 10 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on August 14th, 2023? We have a motion and then we had a second, I believe. Thank you. Motion and second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Next, that passes. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on August 21st, 2023? we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed thank you next is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on october 2nd 2023 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed thank you next is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on october 16 2023 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Next, we've already done at least one of the proclamations. I don't see Mr. Vic Rivera here this evening, so we'll again just push that off. Next, we're going to go to petitions and communications, and we'll start with Planning and Development Committee with Alderwoman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. Number one, memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed funding agreement with YMCA of Rock River Valley for capital improvements at the Riverfront Campus located at 200 Y Boulevard Center and Good Shepherd Church located at 1829 North Rockton Avenue utilizing ARPA fund program funds. Referred to Planning and Development Committee. Number two, memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed funding agreement with Comprehensive Community Solutions for Capital Improvements at 917 South Main Street utilizing ARPA program funds. Referred to Planning and Development Committee. Number three, memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed funding agreement with Northwest Community Center, for capital improvements at 1325 North Johnston in the amount of $100,000 utilizing ARPA program funds, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Number four, Memorandum from Sarah Lays, Housing and Program Manager, regarding approval of the First Amendment to the 2022 Home Rental Rehabilitation Program Agreement between the City of Rockford and Zion Apartments, LLC, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. Item number one, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding the 2024 City Council and Committee's calendar, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Number two, a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, land transaction officer, regarding authorization to place for sale a portion of the city-owned parcel located at 1319 West State Street, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Number three, a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed agreement from the City of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance checks, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. And lastly, number four, Traffic Commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on November 8th, 2023. minutes for that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on the number 27 2023 For its a quarter regulation committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost Thank you all for these management for the finance and personnel committee number one is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty finance director regarding the approval of 2023 property tax levy property tax abatement 2023 Street and bridge lobby 2024 fee schedule in 2024 appropriation ordinance number two is a memorandum from Carl Peterson on Police Financial Manager, regarding the acceptance of the Organized Retail Crime Grant Program Award. Number three is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director, regarding a professional service agreement with Barron and Budd and Kostich, Stumich, Parasola, and Taylor for legal representation to pursue the city's interest in the national PFAS lawsuits. Number four is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, deputy director of legal department, regarding the consideration of an ordinance related to the paid leave for all workers act. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to our public speakers. We have three public speakers this evening. Remind our public speakers there's a microphone on the back right and back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the council. There'll be an alarm that goes off when the time has expired, and I say you close your comments at that time. Our first public speaker this evening is Thomas Craven. Good evening, sir. Good evening, City Council. Mayor. Mayor. My name is Sergeant Thomas Craven. For the last seven years I've been maintaining firearms and other equipment for the United States Marine Corps. I was even awarded this decoration for excellence during a maintenance inspection. So I'm working on firearms for the Marine Corps, I'm working on firearms for myself and my house. I figure maybe I can make some money on the side working on firearms for other people. I decided to apply for my gunsmithing FFL, my federal firearms license. Bureau of Alcohol and Tobacco came back and said, hey, everything looks good, application's fine, no issues there. Last thing we need to do is get approval from Rockford Zoning. I thought, won't be a big deal. I know I'm not in violation of the zoning ordinance. And other people have the same license in the city of Rockford. Shouldn't be an issue. I popped down to the zoning office and submitted my application for a home occupation. Before the application was read, the man behind the counter said, you're denied. That's it, you're denied. I'm like, that doesn't seem right to me. Sure, there's a process for this, right? He said, I've been working here 17 years. No one ever gets anything approved with firearms. Go away, you're denied. I'm like, what? I decided to go through the application process anyway. Two weeks later, I get my denial letter from the zoning officer. In the denial letter, the zoning officer actually misquotes and misuses the zoning ordinance. You see, I'm not in violation of the zoning ordinance, so you've got to get creative and find a reason to deny me. Now, I understand the purpose of the zoning ordinance is to preserve the residential characteristics of the neighborhood. neighborhood. You don't want somebody painting cars in the front yard. You don't want someone running a gun shop out of their house. That's not what I'm trying to do. All firearms come to me by mail or I pick them up. They leave the same way. Any ammunition I manufacture, I sell to one range. I have one potential customer. So no customers are seen on site. No one coming to my house. In my application, it says that verbatim, no customer seen on site. In addition, I have signed statements from all of my neighbors saying they're okay with what I'm trying to do. And finally, several other people have this same license. It wasn't a zoning issue for them. I'm not sure why it's a zoning issue for me. Now, today I attempted to submit an identical application to the zoning officer. He refused my application. Nowhere in the zoning ordinance does it say he can refuse my application itself. I WOULD LIKE TO APPEAL THIS DECISION BUT THE APPEAL PROCESS COSTS 600 AN APPEAL FEE LIKE THAT MAKES SENSE FOR A LARGE CORPORATION THAT'S TRYING TO CHANGE A BILLBOARD OR SOMETHING OR SOME KIND OF ZONING DISPUTE BUT IT'S IT'S OUTRAGEOUS FOR SOMEBODY WHO'S LIVING AT THEIR HOUSE JUST TRYING TO GET SOMETHING TO DO AT THEIR HOUSE AND IT SEEMS LIKE THAT'S NOT THE INTENT OF THE ZONING OR THE THE APPLICATION THE APPEAL FEE NOW I ASKED TWO THINGS FROM CITY COUNCIL ONE I ASKED THAT WE HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH THE ZONING OFFICER AND WE ASK HIM TO ACCEPT MY APPLICATION AT THE MINIMUM. IT SEEMS RIDICULOUS THAT YOU'RE GETTING PAID $70,000 A YEAR AND YOU'RE NOT DOING WHAT THE TAXPAYERS ARE PAYING YOU TO DO. IN ADDITION, AFTER HE ACCEPTS THE APPLICATION, IF HE DECIDES TO DENY IT, I ASK THAT MY FEE IS WAIVED SO I CAN PRESENT THIS EVIDENCE TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS WITHOUT HAVING TO SPEND $600 OUT OF POCKET FOR THE PRIVILEGE. IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT I'M TRYING TO DO, PLEASE COME FIND ME. I'D LOVE TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT WHAT I'M TRYING TO DO. THANK YOU FOR YOUR Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Numbers, the 23rd chapter, the 19th verse, they say God is not a man that he should lie, nor a son of man that he should change his mind. Does he speak and then not act? Does he promise and not fulfill? What I want to speak about tonight, they say there were no African American officers in the Navy in World War II. That is a lie. In January 1944, there were nearly 100,000 black sailors in the Navy, but none were officers. That would change when a group of 16 black enlisted men were assembled at Recruit Training Center Great Lakes in Illinois for officer training that month. But ours were initially stacked against them as there was still a strong sentiment within the Navy that blacks was not qualified to be officers. The normal officer training course was 16 weeks. However, These men were expected to complete it in age, a move that they believed was an attempt to set them up to failure. The Navy also expected a 25% attrition rate, similar to that of white officer candidates. However, the group of 16 were determined not to fail and supported one another throughout the brutal pace of the training. Though lights out was at 2230 each night, the group placed blankets over their windows and studied together by flashlight, each man bringing his expertise to help strengthen the skills and knowledge of the others when the course was over. All 16 passed. That exam, in fact, there were scores were so outstanding that people in Washington were certain that the men had cheated. When the group was forced to retake the certain exam, they scored even higher with an average grade of 3.89 out of 4, the highest average of any class in Navy history at that time. Despite the fact all 16 had passed the course, the Navy still wished to only commission 12 or 75 percent as officers. Twelve were selected and a 13 was made a chief warner, hence the nickname the Golden 13. The other three were sent back into the enlistment ranks with no explanation. And the reason why I know about this, my mother's first cousin was one of them. His name was Frank Sublett. He was one of them. And I want to thank you, veterans. I want to thank all veterans. Because I'm a veteran. I did 19 years, 11 months, 29 days, 1 hour, 10 minutes, 15 seconds in the United States Navy. I did three tours in that hell hole in Vietnam. We call it the land that God forgot. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. I want to say good evening to Mayor McNair, all the Persians and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. It is no longer a myth that Brother John Tech is a legend here in Rockford. Last month in November, September the 5th, The church informed me that they wanted to sell a $30 church van for $5,000. We raised over $3,800 came from people, individuals in the community, and those just watching on the camera that watch every day that say, I see you every day on TV, Brother John. We want to thank the mayor. We want to thank the aldermen and others who have contributed. Last week, I was $1.07 short. from $5,000. When I talked about that and people got a laugh out of it, all of a sudden money started. I can't not forget I had five different unions to give me over $500. Remind you, I am not a politician. I do not own any building, even though we want a building, but we don't have a building. But for a union to give an individual like me funding, that speaks a lot about what we do in the community. And now, officer, the chief of police can rest easily. The brother John is not running around with 14 kids in the van for the past 10 years. That now we do have a church van. I got to take, even though we raised 6,000, we still have to pay the insurance. Y'all know how much insurance is here. We got to pay for title and transfer. I got to pay for having the van painted. And I'm taking the page from out to his Spanish. That month the Hispanics all around the city was flying their flags. I thought that was a beautiful thing. We have two national holidays, one month holiday, and we do not represent our flags. The only time they see our flags is when I'm flying that flag. So I'm taking a page from my Hispanics, and when I get this van, when they paint it, you're going to see the red, black, and green flag on the front of that van, and you're going to see that black Panther on the side of that van representing, And now I want to go to, we have an event coming up next week on the 15th and we're going to, what our main topic is is we have a high number of elderly abuse, we have a high number of people that's OD'ing, overdosing, and a lot of people think that abuse is only by males doing something to females? No. A high number of abuse goes unreported. We got kids that abuse their parents. We got kids that abuse their elderly. The elderly is not going to tell on their parents and not going to tell on their grandkids that abusing them. A lot of this abuse goes unaccounted for. That's something that I address on a weekly basis. It's not a week that don't go by that I'm dealing with abuse. The only thing And I'm looking forward with the Peace and Justice Center and other organizations coming to our meeting next week because it's very important. The only thing I have about the DCSF is that their rules and regulations was made in the 50s by gray old white men behind smoky closed doors. How are you going to make rules and regulations talking about what's happened today in 2023? Thank you for allowing me to speak. And I want to thank the people for blessing us with the church band. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we're going to go to our new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have ten items. Item number one. I don't know what I just said. Item number one. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking any time restriction. Thank you. On the north side of Canary Drive from Teal Lane to Schalk Drive, thus repealing the no parking anytime restriction on the south side of Canary Drive from Teal Lane to Schalk Drive. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a 20 mile per hour school zone speed limit. On Waldo Street from Elm Street to Chestnut Street, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 3. The Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the following item. A request to establish all-way stop control at the intersection of Pepper Drive and Hermitage Trail, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Hermitage Trail, stopping for Pepper Drive. 4. The Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the following item. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 1409 South 6th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the authorization to place for sale a portion of the city-owned parcel located at 421 College Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for body art services Tattoo studio in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 56 43 each State Street Jenny ties men and Jason Simon's are the applicants subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number seven the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit and 009-92 for 12 feet by 61.1 feet addition to the north side of the existing convenience store in a c1 limited commercial office zoning district at 2225 rest Riverside Boulevard and Max convenience stores is the applicant subject to conditions illegal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number eight The committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum fence height in a front yard along Chamberlain Street North 6th Street and Ben Street from 4 feet to 6 feet in a seat one limited office zoning district at Fort 19 North 6th Street Lisa and trickin for Northern Illinois Blood Bank and Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number nine the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a restaurant with a drive-through and a variation to reduce the required off street parking from 87 spaces to 69 spaces in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 72 10 waltz Street and ZNH Foods is the applicant subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, the committee, number 10, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for a modification of the existing liquor license for 100% stock transfer in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 3929 Broadway. Savoy lounges the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you Thank you. There's 10 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 10 items clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? logemann to bird Ross Tarina printy Hoffman Rose Beach barriers Bailey funny 12 ice excellent next we're gonna go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost and Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,942,137.61, as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee held on October 23, 2023. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of city-owned property located at 3915 Delver Street, under the City's Mow to Own program to Bobby Thompson Jr. Properties would maintain for two years pursuant to the modem program. No additional payment is required the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you. Thank you. There's two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Kirk could you please call the roll turkey? tumor frost Tarina Prunty Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Bailey, Bonnie 12 eyes Excellent next we'll go to motions and resolutions and go to code and regulation committee alderwoman Trina. Thank you your honor The committee recommends approval of a resolution initiating a proposed text amendment to the city of Rockford zoning ordinances article 90 use groups and categories Thank you. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item clerk? Would you please call the roll turkey? bogeyman timber frost Tarina front Hoffman Rose Beach barrios Bailey Bonnie 12i thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost thank you committee recommends approval of the award a bid for a roof replacement or fire station 610 and fire shop the BP roofing For $79,360 of distinctive roofing, $93,946 of McDermott roofing, and $86,387 for an estimated contract value of $239,693, the funding source are ARPA funds. Number two, the committee records approval of award of non-competitive contract for fire attack close to Area 1 equipment in the amount of $64,400 of funding sources of the Fire Department's capital budget. Thank you. Number three, the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for turnout gear, advanced cleaning and inspection repair to fire decks, gear wash in Milwaukee in the amount of $52,387.50. The funding sources in the fire department operating budget. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of the RFP for architecture and mechanical plan year 2024 to total plumbing and CCM environmental for an estimated contract amount of $1 million based on unit pricing. The contract duration is from September 30, 2024 with one possible one-year extension. The funding source is the DCEO, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Health and Human Services and state supplemental. Number five the committee recommends approval of a change order for snow removal to municipal parking lots to raybind snow pros The original contract was ninety thousand the change orders for fifty thousand dollars The storm bill contract will be rebid the summer of 2024 And well sites will be included in that bid the funding sources the water fund operating budget and the parking fund operating budget number six the committee recommends approval of the community and economic development department's request to accept the Illinois and housing development authority strong communities program round two grant in the amount of $125. The grant does not require a cost match, and the grant term is for 24 months. Thank you. Thank you. Six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Just on the one for a new roof on Station 10, the question would be even if they decide to move it to another location, Does the roof bad enough that it needs to be repaired now? So we've asked that same question internally, and it is in just horrible shape. And the answer was yes. Even when I pressed him a second and a third time, it was still yes. Thank you very much. Absolutely. Any other questions? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Bonnie 12 eyes excellent thank you next we're gonna go to new business and go to code and regulation committee all the woman Trina thank you your honor number one in ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the north side of Canary Drive from Teal Lane to shock drive thus we're feeling the no parking anytime restriction on the south side of Canary Drive from Teal Lane to shock drive Number two, an ordinance establishing a 20 mile per hour school zone speed limit on Waldo Street from Elm Street to Chestnut Street. Number three, an ordinance approving the authorization to place for sale the city owned parcel located at 1409 South 6th Street. Number four, an ordinance approving the authorization to place for sale a portion of the city owned parcel located at 421 College Avenue. Number five, an ordinance approving a special use permit for body art services and tattoo studio in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District. at 5643 east state street number six an ordinance approving a modification of a special use permit for 12 feet by 61.1 feet addition to a north side of the existing convenience store and a c1 limited office zoning district at 2225 west riverside boulevard number seven an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum fence height in a front yard along chamberlain street north sixth street and benton street from four feet to six feet in a c1 limited office zoning district at 419 north sixth street Number eight, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a restaurant with a drive-thru and a variation to reduce the required off-street parking from 87 spaces to 69 spaces in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 7210 Walton Street. And lastly, number nine, an ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license for 100% stock transfer in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 3929 Broadway. Thank you. Thank you. Nine items before you. Is there any discussion on those nine items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Fronte. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Bonney. Aye. Flavais. Aye. Thank you. Next we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the city-owned property located at 3915 Delaware Street under the city's Moda-owned program to Bobby Thompson Jr. Thank you. Thank you. One item before us. Any discussion? Clerk, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Luegaman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Bonney. Aye. Twelve ayes. Any officers' reports? Yes. Seeing none, I would just say I had a wonderful opportunity this weekend for a number of different events, but want to call just three of them. One was a celebration of Diwali, which had nearly 900 people in attendance, and it not only was a wonderful celebration and event, but I thought you all would like to know that it was at the Riverview Inn and Suites, formerly Cliffbreakers, and I know our city council in the past has provided funding for that, and it really looked wonderful and was a great venue for nearly 900 people. And then for our sister cities, we have a sister city in Ferentino, Italy, I believe, dating back to 2006. They had the Greater Rockford Italian Association and they did let an Irishman in. Not only did they have amazing food, but they had about a dozen Ferentino students who were being housed here with host families. visiting our different high schools and by all accounts had the opportunity to meet with the students as well as the teachers that came over from Italy and they've just had a wonderful experience here and that relationship remains strong and then last night I had a really wonderful time that I got to go to total faith community church and our very own human resources director Sharice Hunter Her husband, Mark Hunter, was installed as a senior pastor and was really a phenomenal service. So congratulations to you, Director Hunter, as well as your husband. With that, is there a motion? Thank you. Thank you. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No. Great. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.