thank you Rose here Ogden Beach here Ogden Quinones here Ogden Hanley here
 Chair Alderman McNeely Alderman Chiarelli Here 14 present Excellent we have a full house tonight so we've already done the invocation and pledge we've done that roll call is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on September 28 2020 So moved Second We have a motion and we have a second
 there's no discussion clerk could you please call the roll Durkee aye Bozeman aye Schoonberg Schoonberg he said aye thank you Ross aye Hokey and Herbie
 Irvin Alderman Irvin I said aye aye aye aye aye Alderman Thompson Kelly Alderman Tothman Aye
 OVEN ROAD AYE OVEN BEACH AYE OVEN TENONES AYE OVEN MCNEALY AYE OVEN MCNEALY AYE OVEN SHERELLY AYE THANK YOU OVEN SHERELLY
 aye 14 aye oh man it's always a reminder every two weeks how fun this is is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for city council meeting held on October 5th 2020. second from roger excellent we have a motion we have a second clerk could you please call the roll oh I think we just lost our clerk there she is
 Chaz are you with us? Chaz are you with us? Durkee I'm going to go through this and I'll call each name and if you could just say your vote I'd appreciate it. Alderman Durkee Aye Alderman Lockeman Aye Toonberg Aye Frost
 Aye. Herbie? Aye. Urbans? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Ankle? I call in so it's... Thank you. Alderman Handley? Aye. Thank you. Alderman McNeely? Aye. Alderman Chiarelli? Aye. Wonderful. And Tara, did I hear you call in?
 Okay, as they be calling. We can keep rolling as we go through this. We'll just pull a couple of double duty here. So we're gonna go to, we have no proclamations this evening. So we're gonna go to petitions and communications and we'll take planning and development committee first. We have a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, housing and program manager regarding the acceptance of additional allocation of community development water grant CARES Act.
 grant funding referred to planning and development committee number two memorandum from carl franzen community economic development director regarding the economic incentive agreement with 2018 dpt house rlc
 The third item we have is a memorandum from Carl Franson, Community and Economic Development Director regarding a tax increment finance development agreement for 227 North Wyman, referred to Planning and Development. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee, Letter B, Item 1, memorandum from Robert Willamy, Brownfields Redevelopment Specialist, regarding the proposed revisions of the City of Rockford Solid Waste Ordinance and the addition of nuisance ordinances related to Brownfields Prevention. It's been referred.
 item two memorandum from law security of all this is the attorney regarding the proposed amendments of the city of rockford liquor ordinance chapter three articles one and three it's been referred to item three traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on november 12th 2020 in a minute from the meeting for consideration at the coven regulation committee meeting held on november 23rd 2020 that's been referred item four
 Member Adam from LaFerriere Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney regarding the 2020 and 2021 contract between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for the Actual Enforcement Program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. Number five, Member Adam from Scott, Capabillo, Plenty and Zoning Manager regarding plan number three.
 Paragraph promenade subdivision has been referred. Number six memorandum from Scott Capovella Plenty and zoning manager regarding the PUD and tentative flat of OSS St. Anthony subdivision has been referred. Item seven memorandum from Scott Capovella Plenty and zoning manager regarding the flat of WA Whitten subdivision referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Okay. All right.
 Next up we have a finance and personnel committee bids opening for the city owned property located at 7301
 Auburn street Rockford Illinois has been referred number two memorandum from Kyle Saunders public court structure regarding the city state railroad agreement for our the Auburn street corridor study number three memorandum from Carl Fransen community and economic development director regarding the acceptance of the local cures economic support payments grant program referred to finance and personnel just make note that last item
 obviously uh probably is of great interest to all of you that local cures we've been noticed uh by the state that we won our grant we just have not been noticed how much money we've been given or when we'll get the money so we're putting that on the agenda in hopes that we'll know before our committee meeting and we can move that forward rapidly as our small businesses are depending
 Next, we've done public speakers, so we are moving right along. Yes. Number one, C1, the opening of the bid for 7301 Auburn Street. Typically, we would open that now, but I'm asking to hold that out. So we'll have that bid opening in our next meeting. Okay.
 Awesome. That'll be really exciting. That'll be maybe the first virtual bid that we've ever done in the city of Oxford. Probably get a huge attendance for that unveiling. Next, we'll go to new committee reports. There's nothing under planning and development. We have several items underneath code and regulations. So I'm gonna read through all these items. There's 16 of them. So I will read through all of these. And this was at that time. I wish Alderman Chiarelli was reading these in.
 Okay, number one committee recommends approval of the request for permission to place a for sale to city-owned parcel located at 410 North 1st Street, pin number 1123456015 pursuant to 65 ILSCS 5-11-76-1.
 legal directors can prepare the appropriate ordinance for all of these number two committee recommends approval for the request to vacate the paper alley adjacent to 2605 nurse uh ninth street to capital web systems inc number three committee recommends approval of the request to vacate a portion of harding road which is the dead end adjacent to 1015 harding road
 to prestige leasing and investments. Number four, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to repeal the two-hour parking restriction on the west side of Court Street from Green Street to Cedar. Number five, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval for traffic on Clinton Street to be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of Brown Avenue. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval to repeal the 20 mile per hour school speed zone limit on
 11th Street from the frontage 3020 11th Street to St. Edwards. Number 7 committee recommends sustaining the traffic conditions approval for the traffic on Realm Avenue to be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Greenwood Avenue, thus repealing the existing two-way yield on Greenwood Avenue and Realm Avenue.
 Number 8, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of the state gate F. On the east side of east gate parkway from Broadway to Colorado F.
 Number nine, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for the special use permit for outdoor storage of U-Haul truck rentals in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 4850 North Main Street. Peter nor are you store as the applicant subject to conditions or subject to conditions not commissions.
 Number 10, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for the special use permit for an auto dealership in the C2 commercial zoning district at 5643 State Street. Kamal Adrebo is the applicant subject to conditions. Number 11, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for modification of the existing special use permit to increase the number of passenger vehicles with special
 for sale from the maximum amount of eight to 16 in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2707 Auburn Street. John Powell is the applicant subject to conditions.
 Number 12 committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for the special use permit for a drive-thru in conjunction with the West Romney and C-Tube Limited commercial zoning district at 3402 North Main Street. Stephen Colbert for patent backed investment. WC Duncan Donuts is the applicant subject to conditions.
 Number 13, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the community of Seward and C4 Urban Mixed Use Zone District at 1006 Charles Street, Glade, Norwich, Midtown 1 Shop, LLC, DBA, Midtown 1 Stop Shop is the applicant subject to conditions.
 12.01 Broadway liquor advisory board recommends that the approval of the sale of liquor by the drinking community restaurant following video gaming and the key portal that makes the zoning district at 12.01 Broadway black plant enterprises have all safety and business as exquisite as bar and grill are the applicants subject to conditions
 Number 50, 505 to 507, state street liquor and tobacco advisory board recommends approval for sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the best non-profit, sale of liquor and drink by,
 in conjunction with an outdoor smoking area in C4 urban mix use zoning district 505 507 state street Julia Kyle and Lisa Lincoln doing business as Jane Kaye's mom subject to conditions number 16 requests for modification of the existing liquor license who had one additional video gaming terminal terminal on north main bar 8 doing business as north main bar 1428 north main street
 And for all of these, again, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate order. As Mr. Myers is going to do very eventually. So we have 16 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 16 items?
 This is Linda McNeely. I have my hand raised. I have questions on one, two and three. Thank you. I'm sorry. I can't see your hand. Alderman McNeely, what are your questions? Thank you. On item number one, the CARES grant, I would like to know how much are we getting?
 Okay, and your next question, so we can answer them all together? How much are we getting, and where are the tech department looking to spend that? And second, number two?
 I don't know what the economic incentive agreement is with. And number 3. 227 North Wyman. I didn't see anything in the report saying what this is. How much are we looking? Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman McNeely. I believe you were looking at different items than we were. So number one for the CARES Act funding, we have filed for the CARES Act. We have filed for a grant, and we are waiting to receive it. This was in preparation. This item was just being written. For the agreement at 227 North Wyman, that's for the development agreement. We're going to be bringing forward to City Council for the development of
 adjacent right next door to the new Rockford Public Library on Wyandotte. And what was the third question? Number two, the economic incentive agreement with the LLC there. Yes, I believe this is an economic development agreement coming forward to you next week at committee for Kmart that's been vacant. These are up for a vote tonight though.
 Okay and do we know how much for the TIF for number three you answered on Wyman? So I don't think we've even sent out the full staff report these are just being read in the ones that you're asking me questions about are just being read in they don't have staff reports with them they will next week for committee when it'll be voting on that committee. Okay thanks. No problem thank you.
 Your Honor? Yes, Alderman Hervey. Alderman Hervey, thank you. The outdoor smoking areas, this has come up a couple times now. Can somebody give me a definition of what that allows them to do that's different than the statute?
 Yes, we can certainly do that. I don't know if Mr. Scott Capabilla is on. I'm here. Okay. Hey Scott, could you answer the question? The question was what does an outdoor smoking area allow?
 Basically, it's like an outdoor beer garden, but it would be a designated area for the people that wanted to step outside of a drinking establishment or restaurant. That would be a separate area for them where they could go out and have their smoke and be able to have a drink as well while they're out there.
 I'm assuming, see I didn't know the part about they could have their drink. I knew you could do a sort of overhead to protect people from rain, but I'm correct, it cannot be adjacent to the area where people are eating? That's correct. And then the second part, so if they can take drinks out there, can this be in the front of a building on a sidewalk? Yes.
 No, this is actually a separate area at the former Gallia Italia. So they had an outdoor beer garden, basically. So they're just, they're designating this as their smoking area. I think they're... That's in the back of the restaurant? Yes. Okay, thank you. All right, thanks. Thank you. I don't see other hands raised. Mr. Meyer, do you see any hands raised?
 okay clerk could you please mayor yes thank you and i don't know sorry i'll grab get you mr tunberg but i can't just so you're aware i don't see anyone if you have your hands raised uh i don't know why that is it's very frustrating but mr tunberg i'll hand it to you and sorry i'm just saying that so i don't not get to someone no thanks mayor i i had it raised and i'll unraise it now just for uh so i don't forget
 On number 10, it was brought to my attention that for the dealership on East State Street, that they have another dealership and there were some conditions by the city for them to meet. I'm wondering if those have been met. Thank you, Mr. Franzen. Could you address that question? Sure.
 Thank you, Mayor. You're correct, Alderman Turnberg, that the applicant does have another property and we're behind with the conditions related to parking lot and landscaping. I do not believe that they've been brought up, but the conditions related to the East State property that would be attached to the special use permit would be brought up.
 would require similar improvements. That's fine. Thank you.
 And as Mr. Capavilla mentioned a brief second ago, I just want to let everyone know that 505 and 507 East State is just new owners for Deli Italiana, and so that's just a transfer of ownership there. Also on number 16, we've held that over on the gaming for North Main Bar Association,
 I just wanted to let you know I have talked with individuals there, and they have addressed some of my concerns, and I feel comfortable with that. So I am supporting this. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Hoffman.
 I just wanted to clarify, I had just voted no against East State Street, but now, if I understand correctly, we're just transferring. We're not adding anything new, any new places. That's accurate. Correct?
 That's accurate. It's no net gain or anything, right? That's accurate. Thank you. And I'll be changing my vote this time. Thank you for explaining that. Absolutely. Any other discussion? Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey, with regard to number 10, I'm assuming that's the auto dealership that Alderman Toonberg was speaking of?
 That's the one that they have not completed some of the conditions for a prior SUP? That's correct Alderman. I believe they have a dealership on South Alpine and conditions of that special use were upgrading the parking lot doing landscaping within a certain amount of time. It's one of the reasons that it was staff recommendation for denial for this one. Really following up with them on that.
 I guess I either didn't look over it or didn't read it thoroughly, but I wasn't aware that staff had recommended denial or they have not met the requirements for a prior special use permit. I thought, well, I guess you have to bring them to us, but...
 I would hope that that would be made more clear in the future because I would not have supported this last week. Well, it wasn't committee, but. I would have I would have spoken out then. I just feel very strongly that where people have not met the conditions and requirements, unless it was related to code. Now, if they couldn't get it done this summer.
 I would give some leeway because I know people lost money. COVID just made everything a little bit wacky. But is it not related to COVID? They just simply haven't done it?
 Scott, if you're willing to chime in and some of the more specifics and conversations with the applicant, I will note that, you know, according to staff report and Scott, it wasn't the only reason. We also didn't have a great clarity on their on their site plan for the East 8 site. But scutter able a little bit more background on that.
 Are we talking about the car lot on East State Street? Yeah. The conditions for the other location they own? Yeah, they have a few conditions that they haven't complied with, but they've been trying to work with us on some solutions. They're going to acquire some property to the south, which will change their entire business plan over on that site on Sandy Hollow. Okay.
 We kind of are letting, we're still enforcing one of them, but the other two, we want them to kind of get this property in their hands to the south there. And then we'll take care of that because I think joining those two properties together would make a lot of sense and would help free up some space for the car display. Okay. But in general, we're confident that they are going to comply with the East State Street location?
 Yes. Okay, so they're not just foot draggers, they've had some legitimate obstacles. Yes, they actually just provided a brand new site plan to me this morning. I just haven't had a chance to analyze it, but it looks, my first, you know, cursory view was it looked pretty good, so. Okay, thank you. You're welcome.
 Okay thank you is there any other discussion again I do not see a single person who has their hands up so I will go there. Alderman Shirely. Can you just let me know did you have your hand up and I'm just not seeing it? Yes. Okay thanks.
 Yeah, so I represent the area where on Sandy Hollow and Alpine. This applicant has just recently purchased another property adjacent to their car lot on Sandy Hollow and Alpine. So there's a bigger project going forward. So Mr. Capovilla is correct.
 They have been working through those conditions, but I'm very excited about the fact that they are just recently purchased the other adjacent property and cleaning that up. So it's going to be a great project out there. As far as East state street, I'm confident that they will meet all the codes in the site plan. They've been working well with me and the,
 staff on this. So I'm very confident that just want to let the council know that I am full support of this application. Thank you. Any other discussions? Seeing none clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm 16. I am the rest. Alderman Logerman. I am all. Tuberg.
 Aye. Aye. Irvie? No on item 16, aye on the remainder. Urban? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? No on 14 and 16, aye on the rest. Rose?
 ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN. ALL IN
 Aye. Dorelli? Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 ayes. Item number 14, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item 15, 14 ayes. Item number 16, 10 ayes, 4 noes. Thank you. Those items move forward. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $5,865,997.25 as approved by Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on October 26, 2020.
 Committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of the city-owned property at 1123 7th Street, PIN 1126-477003 to Ricky L. Davis on an amount of $3,000. Buyers plan on refurbishing a home and selling it. Number three, committee recommends approval of an agreement between the City of Rockerton and the Roonton Associates LLC for the placement of unnecessary equipment.
 for the use of cameras at 1555 and in the road we can tell number four committee recommends approval of an agreement between the city of rock and accident with development llc for the necessary replacement of the court name for cameras at 4801 and more great oaks number
 Number five, committee recommends approval for the 2020 property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepting the amount of 55,568,892 dollars into the sense from the levies of the corporate police protection, police pension, school crossing guards, fire protection, fire prevention costs, street and bridge, judgments to virtual hostess, sanitarium, public library maintenance of buildings,
 Illinois, municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers' compensation, and auto-paying funds. The final city levy will be approximately $47,164,495.
 Number six, committee recommends approval of the 2021 fee schedule. Number seven, approval of the 2020 tax levy for street and bridge purposes from 0.06 of the value as an equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the city of Rockford to 0.10 of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue for all taxable property in the city of Rockford.
 Member had approval of the 2020 property tax abatements for 2020. The debt service levies $12,870,578 and will be abated
 in its entirety. Number nine, city of Rockford, Winnebago, and other counties to consent to certain modifications of the city's mobile family housing revenue bond series 2004 terrorist project and execute a certain agreement, certificates, amendments, and instruments required in connection therewith. Is there a motion to approve? Oh, I'm sorry. Is there a discussion? Yes, Mr. Runner, I have my hand up.
 I want to say that initially at the committee, I had some concerns about the cameras. We're talking about C3 and 4. And the amount of money, I remember right up to $247,000. And when we got the breakdown for the hourly maintenance, the insulation cost would be over $3,900 an hour. I was very concerned.
 I did get the chance to talk to the vendor and had a better understanding of those numbers being consolidated among these 26 polls that could be involved, as I have a better understanding of what those numbers are.
 the second part is would someone please explain why again where the city should be taking responsibility uh to pay that pay that money at 247 000. uh i just like to tell me again we are we are doing that thank you mr cagnone
 Thank you, Your Honor. The proposal is coming forward as a result of the annexation of the properties that took place at the end of 2019-20.
 At the time of the annexation, all our departments evaluated the impacts to their operations as a result. Recommendation from the police chief and his leadership team was that because of the call for services of the development, it could have a negative impact on response to other calls throughout the community.
 The suggestion by the chief was to mitigate those calls and the demand that this annexation would bring on was to install cameras. Again, if you recall that this was a very strategic and time-sensitive annexation that we wanted to get the annexation completed prior to the end of 2019. So the development was in the city of Rockford for the 2020 annexation.
 Since we did an analysis of the revenues that the city would receive. Going forward upon completion of the census, which estimated that the revenue would be just under a million dollars.
 A portion of that is property tax revenue at $230,000. So we were asking the property owner to annex that property at the last day of 2019 and still having to pay the full property tax bill for 2019 at $230,000. I would say that the property owner took out a number of expenses in conjunction with the annexation. So ultimately this is coming before you at your discretion
 on whether to advance it forward or not, but a recommendation that we discussed as part of the annexation at the end of 2019. I would point out that the two items that are up here under finance and personality most immediately are not the actual contract for the services, but the licensing agreement with the property owner.
 Thank you. Is there any other discussion? Again, I apologize. I don't see any hands raised. Your Honor, this is Alderman Hervey. I didn't raise my hand. I thought it wasn't working right. Okay. Yeah, what's your question? It's kind of to follow up the same thing. Okay.
 if i understood mr cognit cagnoni this is just the licensing agreement with the owners that allows us to place the cameras and use their their property their private property for the placement and operation of these cameras so there's um your honor
 There's three items on the agenda as a whole this evening. These two items, three and four, under finance and personnel under licensing agreement. There's also later on the committee number five, under committee reports is the camera expansion, which is the Montel contract. That's actually where there will be commitment of funds.
 Okay, okay, got it. That's the fun. I think I said everything I had to say about these last week, and my opposition is not to the annexation. Well, it was to the annexation. That's a done deal.
 I just still believe that we're paying for private security for a private property owner. This is something he should have done a long time ago, given the crime rate that was in that place. And I just think when we went to negotiate that annexation,
 I mean, I understand his water system was failing. Um, but sort of like, we got a real pink elephant. Um, and I again, I can't see the rest of our taxpayers.
 Going without, and I will say we're starting to do a better job on community cameras. I'm not talking about intersection cameras. I'm not talking about the cameras that the police department puts up to help them with some of the technical aspects of their business. I'm talking about cameras where we request them in the community to interdict serious crime, problem properties where drugs and violence are...
 Just a huge occurrence. And we can't seem to respond in our communities. I've had shootings at two places that community members, to their own risk, tried to report criminal activity. They did all the right things.
 And got no responsiveness. I'm not asking the police to be able to solve the crime or go in and break the door down immediately. Right.
 But at a minimum, we've got to do a better job of responding to community complaints. Both of those places ended up with the murder. Now I've got one going on down on Cole Avenue. Same thing. Get me some cameras down there so we can see what these folks are doing. Because I don't know if anybody died there yet or not, but it shouldn't take that. And neighbors are saying with bullets flying, one of us could be next, one of our kids. Yes.
 So if we're going to do all this for a private property owner, I'm going to start doing handstands to get cameras in my neighborhood. That will not be pretty, by the way. So let's get something better for our folks out there. Thank you.
 Mayor Linda McNally. Can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Okay. I would like to make comments regarding item number three and four as well. I got calls.
 After last week, saying that if we're going to put money in those areas. Cameras for cameras and some of my constituents would like to have cameras as well. As well as street lights, so I will not be supporting this tonight.
 I would hope that I would hope that we would take this money and use it in areas that have been a part of the city for a while and certainly need addressing. And I would just like to comment, I would love to see alderman her do a handstand.
 Thank you. So just a reminder that we do have an agreement with ComMed to transition all of our lights to LED as well as in some cases add additional lighting. So to make this a little easier since I can't see anyone, if you don't mind, I'm just going to go quickly through the Alderman. Is there questions from Alderman Durkee?
 No, sir. Questions from Alderman Milgram? No questions, sir. Alderman Tunberg. One question, Mayor. On that property, on those apartments that we're talking about with the cameras, I think the number is what, 2,100 residents? Is that correct?
 We estimate it as 2,420 residents. Okay. Just a question. Would you know offhand are there any other complexes within our city that have that high of a concentration of residents?
 I'm not comfortable answering that question in regards to what the total units are per acre down there versus the number of residents per unit. I wouldn't be surprised if we have similar. Uh, development, but certainly this is a unique. If we do, there's not a lot of them. Okay. Thanks.
 thank you alderman frost any questions i'm more of a statement i guess but when this uh when we have the chance to uh annex this property in uh and mr cagnoni or the mayor you can correct me if i'm wrong i believe we had a gross increase of revenue coming into the city of approximately a million dollars and we knew at that time uh there were issues with
 that the property and both our police and fire departments had questions about it. And I think that's where the cameras came up as an alternative to save time and resources. So...
 I also have questions, you know, the cost, but going back to when we first agreed to do annexation, it was discussed then, and there was an approximate cost, so we're still netting. I know they needed this water, but we're still as a city netting approximately $750,000 by annexing this property, and as well as obviously we did, hopefully for the census purpose, increase our cost.
 Our population as well. And hopefully we had some benefit out of that. So I'll be supporting that. Thank you. Thank you. I'm impressed. We've heard from all the new her the ultimate Irving's. Thank you. Your honor.
 You know, I went out there and I spoke with some of the staff members and they're not even really concerned about the cameras themselves because the level of crime that takes place out there isn't what it has been or had been, especially before I moved out here.
 Like I said, I mean, I've stayed there, you know, for, you know, a long period of time before buying a house, you know, and, you know, I...
 I WILL SAY THIS, YOU KNOW, IT IS VERY UNIQUE PROPERTY AND IF WE DO HAVE ISSUES AND CONCERNS ANNEXING IT IN, I THINK THAT WAS A GREAT IDEA. WE ARE, YOU KNOW, BENEFITING, YOU KNOW, FINANCIALLY FROM IT AND IF WE WANT TO DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT OR IF WE WANT SOMETHING DIFFERENT, THEN WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
 the amount of cameras you know maybe a few I could tell you this you know since when I moved there it's way more brighter the property themselves they have invested a lot of money into the upkeep you know
 you know the grounds keeping you know i took the the trophy for maintaining the green grass on the property they really do take pride in uh in the renovations they've actually just upgraded all of their security doors you know they have they have uh and so i mean but what i want to emphasize though on both entrances are well lit
 They're extremely lit, you know, and I know well-lit areas at night deter criminal activity. You know, I don't think the amount of lights or cameras is necessary. We definitely need them in areas that are hurting and suffering, just like, you know,
 The scripture says the healthy doesn't need a doctor, but the sick do. You know, those that have light and exposure really don't need more exposure. You know, those that are urgent do. They need some sight in the dark. But, yeah.
 NO, I CAN'T STAND FOR THE CAMERAS TONIGHT. I DON'T THINK IT'S AN APPROPRIATE TIME. I BELIEVE THERE'S A TIME AND A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING. I DON'T THINK THIS IS THE TIME FOR THAT. BUT IF WE DO HAVE THE MONEY TO INVEST CAMERAS, LET'S HIT SOME OF THESE AREAS THAT ARE HEAVY ALREADY WITH MURDER. THAT'S ALL. THANK YOU, MAYOR. THANK YOU. ALDERMAN TOPS AND KELLY, ANY COMMENTS?
 Yes, Your Honor. Yes, I do. The $750 that we receive in revenue from this complex gets eaten up with our police department, our code enforcement, and our property standards department. That $750,000 goes real fast with all the calls, with the ambulance, the first aid response, and our first responders.
 to go to this unit. I understand the reason for the discussion and having the cameras to help the situation. But you know, if our chief of police would acknowledge the fact that there are other situations in this community that's been existing for quite some time. And I won't be supporting this tonight. Thanks Alderman Hoffman. Any questions?
 Okay, Alderman Rose. Yeah, just real quick. I agree with Alderman Frost in the sense that we're going to be making a net $750,000 off of this development. I think the issue ahead of us is at what point do we hold property owners responsible for their property? And I think that's a really big question we have to take into consideration when we're
 When doing these kind of things, I'm going to be in support of it tonight, but. I'm going to ask that we take a hard look at. Development and other developments that. You know, if we open the door to this. Then what stops us from doing this in other parts of the city where a development says, well, you know, you did it over here now we want now we want that.
 kind of investment over in our part. And I think that's a legitimate question now for them if this gets approved. So I just...
 i think we have to be cautious with this and i think after the uh five years is up on the warranty we have to have the property owner offer a security plan so that the taxpayers don't have to continuously fund a camera system for someone who should just be taking care of this issue so i
 Again, I'm going to be in support of it tonight in order to support our officers and first responders, but I think we have to take a much deeper look into this. Thanks. Alderman Beach, any comments? No.
 Oh, no, Your Honor. Thank you. Altman Quinones. Yes, I forgot the number, Your Honor, but the location at 1100 Block and 7th Street, I'm in favor of this, sir, but I just want to know if there's a time limit where he has to clean up that property once he buys it? Director Frampton, do you know that time limit? I don't know the number off the top of my head, but
 It's number two, your honor, 1123 7th Street. We're giving him a year to clarify his intentions are to clean the property. This was a hoarding situation and so he'll be emptying the property, improving excess vegetation as well as other vehicles and junk that's on the property with the intent of removing that barrier for resale. We intend to give him a year which could be more than enough.
 And if it's not done at that time, then we would bring under our vacant profits registry and moving it forward. Thank you. Next, Alderman Hanley. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, anything to add? Yes, please. I just want to point out that the net amount from this property, three and four, would
 Would be less than that, depending on how how much we spend for police and fire to go out there and wondering. May or if it's possible to put to, I don't know if agreements have been signed or not. But if it's possible, if we do put a live in a 5 years. And maybe they take.
 The cost of those cameras and they take ownership because it will cost us money to take them down and put them somewhere else. And finally, number 9, I want to know staff to tell me what are the modifications. Thank you for the bond to the revenue bonds, multi family revenue bond.
 That's number nine. Thank you. Director Haggerty, could you address question number nine? Yes, so these are bonds that are issued under the city's authority to issue tax-exempt debt.
 The city has no direct financial long term financial obligation. To pay the debt, we are simply lending essentially our tax exempt status to the developer of the property. For development of residential income. I'm sorry residential properties of which a percent is dedicated to serve low income residents.
 We they approached the city director Meyer worked with their legal team to make some sense to the agreement the terms of the bond extended sort of refinanced and extended the terms it does not affect the city's long-term debt profile and it does not create for the city.
 thank you uh patient that is refinement that was refinanced sorry could you repeat that the only modification was refinancing that they extended the term as well i believe if that's correct mr meyer yeah
 Thank you. And yes, the answer to your other question is yes, the agreement has been reached and thus coming before the council. Next, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a statement. Since that annexation occurred,
 and item three and four. I've received many calls from the residents out there when they were notified that they were annexed into the city. And I can tell you this as an alderman, the
 The people that live in those complexes were very happy to finally get some representation and have their voices heard on what's going on in that area because prior to this annexation they had no one to speak to and I see that as an asset for us in the city going forward that at least they have representation for the amount of taxes that are being paid and the rents that's being paid out there.
 i appreciate all the comments from the council members tonight and all the different points of view um but i will be supporting this item three and four tonight thank you thank you much side note it's good to hear uh your voice sound normal and healthy so uh thank you there's been several comments tonight about the five-year warranty and perhaps taking the city only up to that five-year point is there something in that agreement
 that states that or could there be Mr. Cagnone you want to answer that I will attempt to your honor I may defer to Karen in regards to the specifics as it relates to the to the Montana agreement which again is item coming up on the agenda as it relates to the licensing agreements under consideration most immediately
 you know the election agreement allows us to put up cameras on the properties um for no less than a period of five years after five years the owner could ask us to to remove them at that time there's no indication that they may uh but that is the the term so on beach i'm not certain if you're asking if it could be a longer term than that um or whether they could the property owner could cover the maintenance certainly we could ask him at some point in the
 um you know after the the five years to see how effective it was but they wouldn't be under an obligation at this time well i guess i think that's what i was hearing from many of the councilmen is that if we're going ahead and flip the bill for the first five years that we will let the people know that the end of five years if those cameras still stand it's their responsibility to take over the maintenance i think that would be something maybe we'd like to consider
 Well, certainly that is something that could be proposed as an amendment to the agreements that are under consideration. Well, I'd have no problem making that amendment. I second it, Alderman Beach. Thank you. Do you want me to try to give words to that?
 Could Nick help us here? I'm sorry. If it's a formal amendment to the licensing agreement, you know, that would be an amendment. And just to make sure I'm understanding, you're asking the property owner to take over maintenance after five years. Is that an option or a requirement of the agreement? I'm only speaking of several of the councilmen
 talking about that and it makes perfect sense to me that five years is something that we can afford to do based on what you're telling us but after five years i think they need to take it over take responsibility for it that's the spirit of the amendment do you want to make
 Do you want this item to come back before council after year four? So that would allow all to have the opportunity to adjust this going into that fifth year as opposed to trying to make a amendment after we've already approved an agreement with this organization?
 I would not have a problem with that, but that would give us a chance to go ahead and do that. Mr. Meyer and Mr. Cagnone, would that allow enough time for you guys to work and negotiate if we came back up before the order came back up so that Alderman if they felt at that time on to look at that, would that allow you enough time in negotiations?
 Your Honor, so let me just let me rephrase to make sure I understand. I believe that would be a yes. You're talking about approving the agreements as they're currently drafted, but queuing this up to go in front of City Council in
 in year four so that council can make a determination of whether they want to continue it or not as well as approach the property owner to see if they'll take over the maintenance costs how does the secretary
 what do you say how does the second feel about that that's okay with me yes that sounds that sounds good okay so we'll include that and make sure it comes back before uh council all right
 No other discussion clerk, will you please follow up? I'm sorry, your honor. I do have one. I apologize. May I? Of course. Okay. This is on number two. We had asked staff last week to this person, I guess owns or manages over 200 units in the city. What is the status?
 Do you have problems with the other properties? Is he up to date on fixing violations? Director Franzen?
 This property owner and manager is very well known to us. So I believe he owns 31 distinct properties, manages, as you said, many additional units. We went through code violation history. There are certainly none of any significance. I don't believe there's really any history there. And he's completely current. There's zero fines or anything with the city from his properties. Okay. Thank you. Can you please call the roll?
 In a matter of clarity, number 3 and 4, is that being held out? No. So what did we do to it? There was a motion and a second on the floor to amend it. I think the amendment was for number 5.
 Councilor So just for a point of clarity, I thought I took and maybe I misunderstood you Alderman Beach and Alderman Rose. My understanding was that you were withdrawing the motion so that you could bring this item back before Councilor at the four year point. So then if Council wanted to make action, I've provided plenty of time for staff to
 staff at that time to renegotiate for a disagreement. If I misunderstood that, I really apologize, and we can bring back up the motions. That was my understanding of the second on my end. Alderman Beach? All I want to happen here is that we get one more chance to decide whether we're going to move past five years of funding this thing or not. Okay.
 so are you asking for a layover what are you asking no i haven't laid over and just get it get the words right now tonight okay so what words do you want all the money well what i am understanding
 That was just said, we're just going to amend it so that everything stands away. It stands until your number four. Then your number four was coming back to city council. Now, is that like with a sunset? So it's automatically going to do that.
 So I was just going to direct staff to do it but let's go there's a motion on the floor to bring this item back before council after year four is there a second to that Alderman Beach's motion I'll second Okay Alderman Beach Motion Motion and second Aye Clerk could you please call the roll on the motion Durkee No Logoman Aye
 TUMBER AYE BROS AYE HERVEY NO IRVINS NO THOMPSON-KELLEY NO HOFFMAN NO BOWEN NO BOWEN NO BOWEN NO
 Aye. Rose? Aye. Rose? Beach? Aye. Pinona? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Alderman McNeely? Aye.
 You're muted Alderman McNeely. No. Which way do you vote Alderman McNeely? No. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. Aye. Nine ayes, five noes. Okay. All right, so we're moving right along. We'll go, uh, could you please call a roll with all the items as currently amended? Alderman Durkee.
 No on three and four, aye on the rest. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. I'm going to stay on number two, aye on the rest. Irby. No on three and four, aye on the remainder. Irvin. No on three and four, aye on the remainder. Thompson-Kelley.
 No on three and four. Aye on the remainder. That's four. I've got to get more. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? No on three and four. Aye on the rest. Hanley? Aye. McMilley? No on three, four, and nine. Aye on the remaining. Chiarelli? Aye.
 Item 1, 14 ayes. Item number 2, 13 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 3 and item 4, 8 ayes, 6 noes. Items 5, 6, 7, 8, 14 ayes. Item number 9, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Next we'll move to Planning and Development Committee.
 committee recommends approval to apply for and accept 2021 community services block grant funding in the amount of 1 million 15 293 is there any discussion well i'm sorry is there yes is there any discussion seeing none clerk will you please call the roll Durkee aye Logerman aye Toonberg aye Frost aye Hervey
 HERBY AYE THANK YOU ULDIMAN IRVINS AYE THOMPSON KELLY AYE HOSSMAN AYE ROSE AYE THANK YOU ULDIMAN BEACH AYE QUINONES AYE HANLEY AYE MCNEILLY AYE SHERELLY AYE
 aye 14 ayes thank you next we'll go to coding regulation committee committee recommends an approval of the 2021 city council and committee calendar is there a motion to approve sir a second i'm probably probably don't need a motion in a second i'm sorry any discussion
 Could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Glowgaman. Aye. Toomber. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irby. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. Next we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Committee recommends award a bid for 607 Walnut Street.
 fire cleanup to North Main Illinois service of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $231,825 funding sources and hastings funds. Next item number two committee recommends approval for the award of bed, well 13 and well 41 HMO room build out to Larson Larson Builders of West Park, Illinois.
 and that amount of four hundred and thirty eight thousand five hundred dollars the project is estimated to be completed by march 26 2021 funding a source a source is water replacement account
 Item 3 committee recommends approval of the water main relocation to N track group of loves park Illinois in the amount of 945,670 dollars and 50 cents the project is estimated to be completed by May 28 2021 funding source rather replacing the improvement account item number four committee recommends approval of the acceptance of administration of children
 and families office of head start supplemental cola and quality improvement grant award item number five committee recommends approval of the award of rfp camera expansion program to montel technologies llc of rackford illinois in the amount of 247 970 dollars
 Funding sources of police department operating budget number six committee recommends a group of the proposed resolution to rebate percent of liquor license fees to bars and restaurants as a business assistance program for those bars and restaurants with a liquor license for sale of liquor by the drink, including beer and wine by the drink.
 Item number 7, committee recommends approval of the proposed canvas fund resolution creating a canvas fund utilizing 3% local tax on canvas sales for the purpose of funding programs for economic and business development, education, youth programs, job training, health, and other financial assistance to individuals, businesses, and communities within the city of Rafford that have been disproportionately impacted by canvas related laws.
 Number eight committee recommends approval of the agreement between the city of Brackett and Rose Grange for our co-responders drug grant. Number nine award fits central garage main drain replacement repair to Dale's Plumbing Inc of Pecatonica, Illinois in the amount of $41,797.10. The funding source for this is the property fund operating budget. Is there any discussion on this item or on these items? Yes.
 Okay, on item number. On item number 5, is that still related to item 3 and 4? We just voted on. Yes, ma'am. Okay. And item number 7. I would like to offer. An amendment to that.
 I believe that the items, the way they are listed, is quite general and easy to go outside of those areas that were most affected and therefore not benefit the individuals that were most impacted during those years being in prison. So my amendment would be to take out from...
 FROM EDUCATION THROUGH HEALTH.
 THROUGHOUT THEIR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO TAKE THAT OUT AND TO REPLACE IT WITH FUNDING FOR INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES.
 Affected. Affected.
 I'm sorry I can't find the paper so what I will do Mr. Mayor is ask that this item be laid over and then I can talk to the staff Is there a second to the second Second Item is automatically laid over No Mr. Mayor this needs a vote the automatic layover rule pertains to
 Committee reports. This is a resolution. This will need a vote. So we have a motion and a second. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. No. Irving. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly.
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? No. Beas? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, 2 noes. Okay, that's out. Any other comments? Any other questions? No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Questions about any of the other items that are up? Thank you. Any other questions about any of the other items up? Yes, Your Honor. All the things you know, Miss. On the item of the bars and restaurants, so I get it clear, right, is that a clue to clubs too? Mr. Meyer, do you want to unmute? I didn't. Is that a question to me?
 Yes, I'm asking you Alderman Quinones said, does that include bars and restaurants? It should be here. Yes, I can answer that Mayor. This would apply to any liquor license except package liquor. So yes, the clubs would be included. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions? Hey clerk, will you please call the roll? Dir Keefe? No on five, aye on the rest.
 Logerman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? No on 5, aye on the remainder. Ervin? Alderman Ervin? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? No on 5, aye on the remainder.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? I'm an aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No, I'm five. I am the remaining. Chiarelli? Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 14 ayes. Item number 5, 10 ayes, 4 noes. Items 6, 8, and 9, 14 ayes.
 Thank you. Next up we'll go to new business. There's nothing under planning and development committee. So we'll go to code and regulation. We have an ordinance approving the request for permission to place for Seattle city on parcel located at 410 North 4th Street. We have an ordinance approving the request to vacate at Paper Alley adjacent to 2605 9th Street to Capital Web Systems.
 We have an ordinance approving the request to vacate a portion of Harding road, which is at that end, adjacent to 1015 Harding road to prestige. In investments and before in the ordinance approving to repeal the 2 hour parking restriction on the west side of course, from green street to Cedar street number 5, we have an ordinance approving the traffic.
 on Clinton to be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of Brown Avenue. Number six, we in ordinance approving to repeal the 20 mile per hour speed zone limit on 11th Street from frontage 3020 11th Street to St. Edwards School. Number seven, in ordinance approving for traffic on Rowan Avenue to be required
 to stop prior to entering the intersection of Greenwood Avenue, thus repealing the existing two-way yield on Greenwood Avenue at Rome. Number eight, an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of East Gate.
 parkway from broadway to colorado avenue number nine and ordan's approving for a special use permit for outdoor storage of u-haul truck rentals in an i-1 light industrial zoning district at 4850 north main street
 Item number 10, an ordinance approving a special use permit for an auto dealership in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 5643 3 Street. Item number 11, approval of the modification of the existing special use permit to increase the number of passenger vehicle sales from the maximum allowed 8 to 16 in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2707 Auburn Street.
 item number 12 an ordinance approving a special use permit for a drive-through in conjunction with a restaurant and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 3402 north main street item number 13 an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the with the convenience store at sea in a c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 1006 charles street item number 14 an ordinance approving sale by liquor by the drink
 in conjunction with a restaurant bar and video gaming in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 1201 Broadway. Item number 15, in order to improving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant bar and the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an outdoor smoking area in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 505, 507 East State Street.
 Number 16 in order to prove the modification of the existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at North Main Bar Incorporated doing business as North Main Bar at 1428 North Main Street. Is there any discussion on any of these items? Any discussion on these items? Sure. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Um,
 Number 14, I just want to know the Alderman of the Ward, what their thoughts are on that particular item. That's 1201 Broadway. Is that Alderman Quinones' ward? Yes.
 So what was the question? Do you support 1201 Broadway? Yes, yes, I support it. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any other discussion? Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. No, I'm 16. I am the rest. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost.
 16, aye on the rest. Was that no on 16? Correct. Thank you. Alderman Hervey? No on 16, aye on the remainder. Alderman Irvin? Alderman Irvin? Aye.
 sorry about that no 16 iron remainder thompson kelly all right softman no one 14 and 16 i am the remainder rose i had all of them
 No, I'm 14 and 16. I am the rest. He known as? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Torelli? Aye.
 Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 ayes. Item number 14, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item 15, 14 ayes. And item number 16, 8 ayes, 6 noes. Thank you.
 Next up we have finance and personnel committee and ordinance improving the sale of city owned property located at 1123 7th street, sub number 1126477003 to Ricky L. Davis in the amount of $3,000. And the board number two, an ordinance improving an agreement between the city of Rockford and Edward Bros and associates LLC for the placement of necessary equipment for the use of cameras at 5055 Linden Road, Beacon Hill.
 number three an ordinance approving an agreement between the city of eifert and occidental development llc for the necessary placement of equipment for cameras at 4801 in great oaks the
 Number four, in order to approving the 2020 proposed property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted at an amount of 55,568,892 dollars for the levies and the corporate police protection, police pension, school crossing guards, fire protection, fire police, street and grid judgments, tuberculosis sanitarium, public library, public library
 public library maintenance of buildings, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers' compensation and auditing funds. The final city levy amount will be approximately $47,164,495. Number five, in order to improve the 2021 fee schedule. Number six, in order to improve the 2020 tax levy for street and bridge purposes from
 0.06% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable properties in the City of Rockford to 0.10% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford.
 Number seven, in order to approve the 2020 property tax evasion for 2020, the debt service levy is $12,170,578 and will be abated in its entirety.
 The ordinance authorizing the city of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties of Illinois to consent to certain modifications to the city's multi-family housing revenue bond, series 2004, Karis Apartments Project. To execute certain agreements, certificates, amendments, and instruments required in connection therewith. Suspend rule 15.
 So I guess I first make them see if there's a motion to suspend rule 15 for item number 8. So moved. Second. We have a motion and we have a second. Is there any discussion on the suspension of rule 15? Seeing no discussion on that suspension clerk, could you please call the roll? I'm just the suspension. Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Irvie. Aye.
 Irving? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? No. Hoffman? Alderman Hoffman? Hoffman? Aye. Thank you. Alderman Rose? Aye. Beach?
 Aye. He known as? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No. Shirely? Aye. 12 ayes, 2 noes. Thank you. So we have eight items before you. Is there any discussion on those eight items before us?
 No discussion. Clerk, can you please call the roll? Durkee. No on two and three. Aye on the rest. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Sustained on one. Aye on the remainder. Hervey. No on two and three. Aye on the remainder. Irvin. Aye. Kemp.
 Thompson Kelly? No, 1, 2, 3, and 8. I got the remainder. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Alderman Beach? Did you get that? No, we didn't. Which way do you go? I'm going to the right. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the right. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the left. I'm going to the left.
 ALL RIGHT. THANK YOU. THANK YOU, SIR. OLEMAN KINONES. AYE ON 2 AND 3. AYE ON THE REST. OLEMAN HANLEY. AYE. MCNEILLY. NO ON 2, 3, AND 8. AYE ON THE REMAINING.
 Alderman Chiarelli. Aye. Item number 1, 13 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 2 and 3, 9 ayes, 5 noes. Items 4, 5, 6, 7, 14 ayes. Item number 8, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Thank you. All right.
 Next, if you don't mind, everyone, I would like to go back to petitions and communications. I know there was a lot of pent-up excitement about a potential bid opening. Legal Director Nicholas O. Myers could not even contain himself and just wanted to get this done tonight. So, Mr. Myers, could you please do your best at opening up this bid and bringing lots of money for the city?
 Am I on, Glenn? All right. I have a bid from Northern Illinois Services on 7301 Auburn Street. We're not really moving up the excitement. I have a check in the amount of $10,000 for that bid, along with proposal number P20320. I'll refer that bid to finance and personnel. Okay.
 uh the proposed lease payment is five thousand dollars per year with options thank you okay uh i guess at this time we can go to uh officers reports uh alderman durkee anything to report
 Well, Your Honor, I have all kinds of wisdom, wondrous stories, insights, and even humorous anecdotes that I would love to share tonight. But unfortunately, the Chicago Bears have completely solid my disposition. So I will decline. Father McLovin. No, sir. Thank you. Father McEwenberg.
 No, Mayor. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Did Alderman Toomer just say no? Hurry up. Go fast. Hurry up. Based on that, I'm speechless. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Alderman Irving. I have nothing. Hurry up. Hurry up. Hurry up, Mayor. Alderman Irving. I got something.
 I just want to say that we had a great turnout this past Saturday with our harvest fest. I'm sorry. Great turnout. We had about 350 kids come out and enjoy the time, have some dance offs and some food. It was a good old time. We was COVID friendly. Make sure you put that out there. But yeah, that's all, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 yes your honor i have one thing please everyone go out and vote vote vote thank you thank you uh does that vote three times okay of course it is alderman hosman
 Thank you, Mayor. I do have something. I'd like to thank Tim Schler from Top Box Foods. He contacted me last week, and we've already set up a schedule. Rockford Housing, they are going to be providing 1,000 boxes of food for our residents beginning November 19th. Again, thank you to Tim Kohler and Top Box Foods. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Rose. Just real quick. I wanted to say kudos to all the trick or treaters. This past weekend who followed a lot of the rules that. You're out and you were watching people were following the coven rules and I just feel like it says a lot about our community. So I just wanted to make a statement on that. Thank you. Thank you.
 No report tonight, sir. Alderman Quinonez. Not so, sir. Alderman Hanley. No, thank you. Alderman McNeely. Alderman McNeely.
 Yes, thank you. I had an event this past Saturday at church on Henrietta. They gave out hundreds of bags of food and they gave back the bags of food to the Rock River Valley Pantry over on Cedar. It was a great event and certainly something well needed in the community. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I want to thank you and your staff and everybody who worked on the reduction for the liquor license fees. It's much needed and help for restaurants and bars. I appreciate that.
 Thank you to you and your staff again for the hard work on keeping our levee flat this year. It's a very proud moment for us, and I appreciate the council voting yes on that. It's wonderful. And I only had one trick-or-treater this year. I had my wife go out at the end of the driveway and come and ring the doorbell, so I didn't feel too lonely. Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate all your hard work. Thank you.
 Appreciate that. And Alderman Torelli, I'm guessing you also want a lot of people to go out and vote. I'll just say I don't think anyone else is up for an election besides you on this call. Just want to say good luck to you and we'll all be thinking about you. At this time, I'd ask if there's a motion. I really don't even want to ask this. If there's a motion to convene.
 into closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters. So moved. I'll second. We have a motion and a second. One of those famous amendments coming at this time, this would be a good one to have an amendment on. No? Okay. Clerk, could you please call the roll? How are we going to achieve this? Gerke. Aye. Lozaman. Aye. Toomber. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 Herbie? Aye. Irvin? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Fortina? Aye.
 Okay, thank you. So at this time, Mr. Trommels, I believe you're going to give us an education on how this is going to work.
 Yes, your honor attorney Myers is going to go into conference room B, and he'll still join the conference and I'll turn off the audio and council chambers. And then you can convene your closed session. I can, sir. Okay. So I just. Pretty council changes in mind.
 question if uh glenn's all good we're good yep okay so now we're back in the open session is there a motion to adjourn us for the evening so moving turkey second motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion clerk could you please call it turkey no i mean i just gave me a heart attack welcome tonight
 ALL RIGHT. CAN I ABSTAIN? ALL RIGHT. SERVEY? ALL RIGHT. IRVIN? IF I ABSTAINED, WOULD EVERYBODY HAVE TO STAIN? NO. YOU. ONLY YOU. ALL RIGHT. THOMPSON KELLY? ALL RIGHT. I'M ALL RIGHT. ALL RIGHT. ALL RIGHT. ALL RIGHT. ALL RIGHT.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13-I. Have a great night. Good night, all. Have a good one. Night. Thank you. Thanks.