Good evening and welcome to the City Council meeting of the City of Rockford, Illinois. The date is Monday, November 7, 2016. Our invocation this evening will be from Fire and Police Chaplain Kenneth Henley of Freewill Baptist Church in Rockford. Let us pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, tonight I ask your guidance upon the City Council as they make decisions for the City of Rockford that it might be for the benefit of the citizens. Amen.
 But, Lord, that they would use the best judgment they have to do what is right for our city. I would also ask, Lord, that you would keep our police and fire departments safe as they protect the city from crime and from fire and from different medical situations. Lord, I pray that you would just guide and protect them in all that is said and done. These things we ask in Christ Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Getschis. Here. McNamara. Here. Ross. Here. Hervey. Here. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Here. Newberg. Beach. Here. Elliott. Here. Beck. Here.
 McNeely, Chiarelli, 13 present. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. So motion to accept the journal. On this, again, we have two journals, actually. The date of October 17th and October 24th. There's been motions and seconds to approve those journals. Any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting these journals, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you.
 There are several speakers signed up for public speaking this evening. I'll remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over it, I will remind them to wrap up. You can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our first speaker this evening is Jennifer Smith.
 Good evening. I came and spoke two weeks ago about the Spring Creek multi-use path. And I'm here again asking for your support when that comes up in your CIP discussion in the future. But I wanted to add a little bit to my comments from a couple weeks ago and talk a little bit more about a full, safe system for bikes and pedestrians in our community.
 Two weekends ago, since I've spoken, two people have been killed on the streets walking and biking. One gentleman, David Miller, excuse me, Richard Walker, nope, David Miller on Sandy Hollow Road was hit not by one but by three cars. And Karen Meagan on North Central hit checking her mail while on her bicycle.
 And so I think when we think about safety for pedestrians and bikers, we don't want to think about these things in single intersections or single sections of a road or of a path, but really to think about the system of safety for the people of the city who are trying to enjoy the outdoors, but also to get to work and to school and to places of worship.
 There's a lot of celebration and I join you with a celebration about the Bell School and State Intersection which is finally being completed to the tune of $5.7 million which I'll remind you is the same amount that's allocated for the entire neighborhood program every year for streets.
 And I know that 80% of that came from the federal government, but there isn't enough time or enough money for every intersection to get that kind of treatment. We need to start thinking much more efficiently, much more systematically about what we're gonna do to keep the people who are walking and biking in our city safe. So I ask you as you consider the CIB going forward into the future, give it a systems approach. Think about where those areas that people really need to walk and bike, how can we connect those places?
 And we can't wait around for $5.7 million for every intersection for that to happen. There are 10 intersections between Bell School and Alpine Road on State Street that are about the same intensity as that intersection. So that would be, you know, $60 million. There's a major city in the United States who put in 20 years worth of bike infrastructure. It's one of the best biking cities in the country, and they did it for $60 million.
 So there are models that we can do things a little more efficiently, more effectively, and looking at a whole network of safety, and I encourage you to think about that going forward. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the Book of Proverbs, the 28th chapter, the 27th verse, it says, He who gives to the poor will lack nothing, but he who closes his eyes to them receives many curses. What I want to speak about tonight...
 about African Americans, lies about African Americans in Vietnam. There were 21 African Americans to get the Medal of Honor in Vietnam. And I'm going to name them for you tonight. James Ellison Jr., Marine Corp. Webster Anderson, Army. Eugene Ashley, Army. Oscar P. Austin, Marine Corp. Matthew Leonard, Army. Donald Russell, Army. Milton Nolet, Army.
 8. Riley Pitts, Army. 9. Charles Kevin, Army. 10. Rupert L. Sargent, Army. 11. William Bryan, Army. 12. Rodney M. Davis, Marine Corps. 13. Robert Jenkins, Marine Corps. 14. Lawrence Joel, Army. 15. Dwight Johnson, Army. 16. Ralph H. Johnson, Marine Corps. 17. Godfield M. Langhorst, Army. 18. Claire Sasser, Army. 19. Clifford Simms, Army. 20. John E. Warren, Jr., Army. 21. Martin Lawrence, Army.
 There used to be a time when Vietnam was going on, the judge would ask a young man, he'd say, you got two choices.
 military, five years in prison, or two years in the United States Army. And my good friend here, A.C. Davis, I know him very well, he can tell you this. And I've been wanting to tell Mr. Tim Hanson this for a long time. He's not here tonight, but I'm going to get it off my chest. I don't like you. I love you. You can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday, and I wish you many more. And I got this list about them dogs just barking all the time, and I'm sick and tired of it. Give this to Mayor Morrissey. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you very much.
 If our clerk wouldn't mind, we'll just get some moment to get that note I had asked Profitt to put together for me. I appreciate that. Thank you all. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. And again, what does this flag mean to you? Last Thursday, I was driving down Broadway, 6.45 a.m., and went past one of those many pop stores on Broadway that coincidentally only sell pop, if you know what I mean, wink, wink.
 Anyway, there happened to be seven or eight individuals lined up waiting for the store to open, anxious to purchase their pop for the morning. Then I realized what day it was. It was the third of the month and they just got more money on their link cards. At least they're shopping local.
 Okay, folks, this is it. The last day before we make America great again or our country becomes the laughingstock of the world where everyone loses their God-given rights, their freedom, the pursuit of happiness, and the right to live your life without government interference. Our national freedom is at stake.
 Several weeks ago, I was speaking with someone whom we all know, and he said he was angry about what Trump said about women. I agree, but those words were taken out of context in an interview that was over two hours long, set up by the Bush family, and it was 11 years ago.
 Let's fast forward to this week where Hillary has a concert with some scumbag rappers whose own lyrics call women hoes and bitches, promoting illegal and illicit drugs and the raping of women. And then she has the temerity
 to go and hug these people. Disgusting. Now let's move on to Michelle Obama. She is so upset with what Trump said. She is practically crying and with a cracking voice says, our children should not have to watch the campaign on TV and hear those words.
 Wait a minute, Michelle. Children aren't watching the campaign, but they do listen to music, including that garbage from the rappers. And what does Michelle do? She invites these scum to the White House for dinner, these same people who denigrate women in every verse they sing. Michelle, you are a hypocrite and your crocodile tears fool no one.
 Have you noticed no terrorist attacks? No Black Lives Matter protests? Now ask yourself why. It shows that it's all controlled and orchestrated by the powers that be and it would not look good for the campaign of Hillary Rodham Nixon. Clinton, Nixon, what does it matter in the name? They're both liars.
 When you go to vote, ask yourself these four questions. Is America safer today than it was eight years ago? Does Hillary Clinocchio have the honesty and integrity to be president of our United States? Who is more likely to hold Washington accountable?
 Who owns these United States of America? Is it we the people or the politicians? This is our turn again to kick out the powers that be. Kick out those who would suppress us. Kick out those who would lord over us. Your future is at stake. I will not be silent. I will be heard. And one last thing. When you go to vote and there is only one person to vote for, leave it blank. Thank you.
 Because one person to vote for is no choice. Leave it blank. Last week, my family and I went to the Nicholas Conservatory to see the lorikeets. If you haven't been, go. It's really cool to have all these birds fly on you and then feed them. It's really neat. We're going again tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Boski and all the ones that are citizens of Rockville, Illinois.
 Proverbs 17, verses 27 to 28 highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. It's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn and give you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause and think and listen so when you do speak, you have something important to say. Former Gulf Senator announced Clinton vote.
 Trump could get us into a nuclear war. Senator Gordon Humphrey, a staunch Republican, voiced in New Hampshire on Sunday that he's backing Hillary Clinton for president. On Tuesday, millions of lifelong Republicans would vote against Donald Trump. I'm one of them, declared Gordon Humphrey, a former U.S. senator who served more than two decades in that chamber. He made the comment in a video released by the Democratic nominee campaign.
 The Boston Globe described Humphrey's vote as a stunning development, given the former senator's conservative, ideological, and support for the Tea Party group. Many anti-Trump Republicans, including Senator Kelly Antone, a Republican in North Carolina, North Hampshire, have said they will cast a right-hand vote for Humphrey.
 for a fellow conservative or alternative to vote for either Trump or Clinton. Trump attacked on women, the disabled, war heroes and minorities are disgusting. A normal person doesn't do that. But Trump is not normal. He's cruel. He's shameless. He's a bully. And he gets worse. Trump has a simple unfit to be president. You do not want a commander in chief who
 have a temperament belligerent onion and he answered he continued truck to get us into a nuclear war that danger has not gone away and it would be a mushroom with Trump finger on the nuclear trigger Colin Powell who served as Secretary of State and Republican Party George W Bush administration said on Tuesday he will vote for democratic Hillary Clinton in November 8th presidential election according to the New York page
 He praised Clinton and said he considered a Democratic nominee a friend who he had known for 20 years. She is smart, she's capable, she was a good secretary of the state. Powell said according to the Newsday, she is balanced, she has temperament, and no matter what anyone says, she has stamina. I think she is fully qualified to serve as President of the United States and was served with distinction, Powell would quote as saying, teachers use this nasty election to spark political student debate.
 by mock elections to write projects and electoral college math. Many teachers around the country are embracing the often nasty presidential race between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton as a real-world teaching tool. The election provides materials for other subjects beyond social studies.
 In math, Miller students have learned about the magic of the number 270. Using additional and a subtraction, you come up with a different combination to get to 270 in the electoral campaign. To end this, so it is not what the party you vote for, but it's about who the candidate is and what is he or she going to do for the community.
 Then we can work on more for it with transforming Rockford. I want to end by saying that we have people who are in office, but when you see someone, even though you don't speak, you should speak to that person.
 Mayor Marcy, I noticed you last year in office. Next week I'm having my Thanksgiving dinner at 3 o'clock at North Main Manor. I would love to invite you as the guest speaker so we can have a breaking of the bread of you going out at 3 o'clock. Treadle, make sure you follow up with my office. I appreciate the invitation. I will. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Michael. Thank you. Final speaker this evening is Michael Smith. Good evening.
 As you may know, tomorrow's ballot includes a measure asking voters to approve or oppose the Illinois Transportation Taxes and Fees Lockbox Amendment. The measures on the ballot largely from the efforts of a group called the Citizens to Protect Transportation Funding, or CPTF, which is leading a campaign called the Safe Roads Amendment. CPTF contends that Illinois' fiscal mismanagement and inability to pass a budget has contributed to the backlog of roads and bridges that are described as being in poor condition.
 The group claims that $6 billion in the past 10 years has been diverted away from transportation budgets and rather than proposing a statute, CPTF seeks to have an amendment directly written into our state constitution. Citizens who vote yes tomorrow would add section 11 to article 9 of the state constitution which effectively locks in transportation related revenue streams like motor fuel taxes, vehicle registration fees and various user fees to be used exclusively for transportation purposes.
 Elaine Neckertz, who is one of four representatives who opposed putting the amendment on the ballot, states that the lockbox amendment will grant explicit protections to transportation funding that no other spending priority would receive. Education, social services, natural resources, and more.
 Establishing transportation funding mandates through a state constitutional amendment would have profound implications for responsible budgeting efforts in the coming years. The lockbox amendment would be akin to the pension and retirement rights given to state workers, whose benefits, according to a 2015 Illinois Supreme Court ruling, quote, shall not be diminished or impaired.
 These amendments are difficult to modify or reverse. They present extreme funding challenges. We know our pension obligations already exceed $116 billion. So adding a similar provision for transportation would add considerably more to our funding obligations, while increasing the likelihood that funds from other departments would be rated to cover the costs. Additionally, there are a number of assertions from CPTF that are unclear and ultimately problematic.
 The group claims by issuance of amendment alone that roads can be repaired without raising new taxes. However, state fuel taxes are one of the key revenue streams for the road fund. That tax has not been raised in over 25 years. Likewise, federal gas taxes also not been increased since 1993. If no additional revenue is raised, which is not explicitly stated in this amendment, it seems reasonable to conclude that funds will be taken from other departments.
 Our functional insolvency in the state makes the task of funding service delivery platforms especially complex. We know this. Elected and appointed officials from the region are mindful of the spillover effects that occur when key services like mental health triage units remain unfunded.
 So, elevating one system like transportation above all other services increases the possibility that those services will lose much needed funding to pay for pet transportation projects causing local governments to run this officially. Therefore, I would recommend that council members and those in attendance tonight vote no on tomorrow's lockbox amendment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications. Alderman Connell. I'd like to read in.
 for planning and development, a memorandum from Mark Williams, economic development manager, regarding development agreement with Delicate Plastic Inc., utilizing community development block grant, CDBG funds for employee training in conjunction with job creation at 1310 Preston Street, 13th Ward, referring to planning and development committee. Thank you, Matt. I'll be referred
 element shirely thank your honor got several items tonight the first is a memorandum from patrick hayes the legal director regarding the draft 2017 city council and committee's calendar the second is a traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on november 9 2016 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulations meeting on november 14 2016.
 The third is a zoning board of appeals agenda and the fourth is a liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda to be held on November 15, 2016 and the meetings from those and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on November 28th. Now that's not, is that correct? Yes, November 28th, 2016.
 The fifth item is a memorandum from Vicki Manson the housing and program manager regarding transfer of city-owned properties to Rockford corridor improvements under the blight reduction program and the partnership agreement and
 The sixth is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding Platte No. 4 of Woodhaven Subdivision. And the seventh is a memorandum from the Legal Department regarding annexation of 3946 Pebble Creek Trail. All those items will be referred to codes from the Regs Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Manager. Be referred. Ellen Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Matt Vittner, Director of Public Works.
 Regarding letter of understanding with Cherry Valley Township for the resurfacing of 20th Street from Lookout Drive to Sandy Hollow Road. I have a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, legal director, regarding Rockford Public Library collective bargaining agreement. I have a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, legal director, regarding amendment to lease for City Fire Station number seven between the Greater Rockford Airport Authority and the City of Rockford. The amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Greater Rockford Airport Authority
 I have a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding transfer of City Vehicle BUS to MABA S Division 8. I have a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, Finance Director, regarding fiscal age and agreement with Rock River Training Corporation. And finally, I have a memorandum from Terrence Hall, Comprehensive Planning and Design Administrator, regarding Madison Street Corridor Design and Development Action Plan. And these items will be referred to finance and personnel. Matters will be referred. Thank you.
 Further petitions and communications? Mr. Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to announce the receipt of the third quarterly payment of the franchise fee from Comcast in the amount of $455,180.78. Thank you. Thank you. Any further petitions or communications? Proclamations? We have three proclamations this evening. Our first is regarding Veterans Appreciation Week.
 I'd invite Dave Davis and others that may be here on behalf of our Winnebago County veterans to please come forward.
 Whereas tens of millions of Americans have served in the armed forces during the past century, and whereas hundreds of thousands of Americans have given their lives during the past century in order that we may maintain our freedoms and way of life, and whereas by act of Congress, May 13, 1938, the 11th of November was declared each year
 to become a legal holiday, a day to be dedicated to the cause of world peace and to be hereafter celebrated and known as Armistice Day in honor of veterans of World War I. Whereas Veterans Day not only preserves the historical significance of the day, but helps focus attention on the important purpose of Veterans Day, a celebration to honor American veterans for their patriotism, their love of country, and their willingness to serve and sacrifice for the common good.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of November 5th through the 11th, 2016, to be Veterans Appreciation Week. We call upon citizens to observe not only the Veterans Day holiday, but to reflect upon the entire week the sacrifices of all those who have fought so valiantly to preserve our freedom and our heritage. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I appreciate this very, very much. And on behalf of the 21,000 veterans in Winnebago County and those in Rockford, I thank you very much. And everybody have a good Veterans Day and make as many events as you can. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you again. Our next proclamation is regarding Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. I invite Todd Kisner, president of the Rock River Homeless Coalition, to please come forward, and any others that may be with him that are part of the coalition, to accept the proclamation to please come forward. Whereas despite significant progress, the city of Rockford recognizes that hunger and homelessness continue to be serious problems for individuals and families in our community.
 Whereas more than 40,000 people in Winnebago County live in poverty, with many of them having to use services of a local food pantry or soup kitchen. Whereas the National Coalition for the Homeless and National Student Campaign Against Hunger and Homelessness are sponsoring National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week.
 whereas the purpose of the Awareness Campaign is to educate the public about the many reasons people are hungry and homeless, and to encourage support for homeless assistance service providers, as well as community service opportunities for students and school service organizations.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of November 12th through the 20th to be Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, and we encourage citizens to recognize that many people do not have housing and need support from our community. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. On behalf of the community and the members of the coalition, the Rock River Homeless Coalition, we thank you for the opportunity to bring this awareness to our city and that our families, friends, communities, neighbors there are struggling with hunger and homelessness. So we appreciate the awareness next week, and thank you very much. Appreciate it. Applause
 Our final proclamation is regarding Epilepsy Awareness Month, and we invite Dawn Lee that is here and others that might be here on behalf of the Epilepsy Awareness Month to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Whereas the Epilepsy Foundation of North Central Illinois, Iowa, and Nebraska is celebrating more than 38 years of service to the Rockford area,
 And the mission of the Epilepsy Foundation is to ensure that people with seizures are able to participate in all life experiences and will prevent, control, and cure epilepsy through services, education, advocacy, and research. Whereas there are approximately 65 million people who have epilepsy worldwide, and 1 in 10 people will have a seizure in their lifetime.
 Whereas with nearly 150,000 annual new cases in the U.S., it is important for the Epilepsy Foundation to increase seizure education and awareness. Whereas in conjunction with other national organizations and in cities around the country, the Epilepsy Foundation hopes to use this month to spread awareness and education throughout the community.
 Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morse, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of November 2016 to be Epilepsy Awareness Month. And we urge our citizens to recognize and appreciate the dedication and commitment of the Epilepsy Foundation to our community. Thank you. I just want to say thank you. Four years ago, just over four years ago, Dawn was able to walk.
 On August 28th, she was put in the hospital at Rush. September 1st, put in a drug-induced coma. September 17th, had a complete right temporal lobe resectioning and a week later had another surgery. Within 24 hours, she had 46 seizures. So this is why this is so important to both of us and the other 65 million in the world. One in 26 will be diagnosed with epilepsy and one in 10 will have a seizure.
 There are more people that die of epilepsy than there is breast cancer in the United States. It's 50,000 to 39,000. So this is why it is so near and dear to my heart. Thank you for the time. Thank you. Thank you. God bless. She's a hugger. Yeah, I know. That's good. God bless you. We need more huggers. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for our proclamations. We'll move on to our committee reports. Planning and development. Alderman Durkee, are you taking that? Or Alderman Connell? I'm not sure. I'll do it. Go ahead. Under Roman numeral 5A, number 1, on the planning and development, the planning and development committee recommends approval of the 25...
 2019 Consolidated Plan, 2017 Annual Action Draft Plan, which directs this expenditure of Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnership, and Emergency Solution Grants Program Funds. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Your Honor, I'd like to suspend rules first. Second. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules. Enrollment number 5A1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I just have it. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'd like to place this up for passage. The matter is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I know it will probably seem late in the day, but I would like to know if there's any adverse effect of laying this over. The housing committee meets tomorrow.
 and I don't know if we can amend the agenda, but there are several items within the consolidated plan that I just want to make sure we have the opportunity to look at those within the context of
 housing, especially as it relates to some of the things with the home funds. We've talked a lot about what to do with our foreclosures and some of our abandoned properties and just to have a little more meat to the bones discussion with regard to those things. So I would move to lay it over.
 for that purpose if we can't amend that agenda then lay it over until we can have a discussion with housing I'm not sure what the due date is for this emotion and second normally
 be an automatic layover, but I want to get as a point of information, Mr. Davis or Mr. Cagnoni, what are the due dates and the relevant time period we need to keep in mind for this submission? Thank you.
 Under the HUD regulations, our annual plan is to be submitted 45 days before our program year, which is January 1st. So the submittal is due November 15th. So if the committee wanted to or the council wanted to lay it over this evening, that would be acceptable. We could discuss it at the housing committee.
 and then schedule a special council meeting for next Monday. Now, there is a chance that HUD could delay the submittal date requirements. They have done that last year, and we have asked for clarification, and that is a possible outcome, but I can't say that in certainty this evening.
 So the due date, unless we hear otherwise, is the 15th of November, has to be received in their office by that date? That is correct. It is submitted online. Submitted online by the 15th. All right. So that is because of the motion to lay over, which was seconded, it is an automatic. Your Honor, may we have one moment? Certainly. I want to make sure there's not been a change in the housing committee meeting for tomorrow.
 There seems to be some indication that it may have... There's a housing committee meeting tomorrow. Is it too late to amend the agenda on that, Mr. Hayes? So an agenda may only be amended within the 48-hour window for an emergency purpose, and I would not imagine that this would be an emergency. However, there's no impediment to having discussion on a matter. Next week we have a planning and development committee meeting,
 where the referred item could be amended or adjusted so that if the committee members wanted to, we could...
 The discussion could take place at housing. The housing committee could make a recommendation to P&D to take some sort of action. I would be much more comfortable if a matter was agended for 48 hours before any entity took action. But because it's not final action, I think that the committee could make its recommendations for changes. And either the council, the special meeting next week or the planning and development
 could take those matters up next week and then put it on a council agenda for after the committee meeting. Those are your options. I hope I didn't give you too many. Any further discussion? If there's no further discussion on the item, the item will automatically lay over, and it will lay over.
 I guess let me ask, did you want to lay it over to have a special meeting next week? I would request that there be a special city council meeting a week from today so that there could be action in time for the vote. We'll agenda that up then as a special meeting a week from today for P&D to address the issue. Closing regulations. Alderman Shirella. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5B1, 2, and 3, I move to suspend the rules. Seconded.
 It's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on enrollment number 5B items 1, 2, and 3. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, seven. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I move to place those items up for passage. That is up for passage. It's their discussion.
 Mr. Rowley. Thank you, Your Honor. On item number two, this is in my award, Your Honor, and in full support of this application for an accessory structure. And we had a lengthy discussion two weeks ago at the committee level about this.
 about reversing the ZBA on their decision recommending denial. This accessory building had been up on that property for many years and Commonwealth Edison had requested that they remove this structure that was on the property for many years and they did because it wasn't a blowback easement. This property is utilized as a...
 Apple orchard and it's a beautiful piece of property and over the years they've accumulated a lot of equipment to care for these grounds and I feel that it's a justified variation to allow this and I would Respectfully ask the council to join me in approving this item tonight. Thank you for the discussion. I
 Alderman Hervey. I just wanted the record to reflect, I agree, because the structure had been there before and it does have the use as an orchard. I just wanted to make it clear for the record that it's my support is because
 the structure previously existed and only was taken down because it obstructed an easement, not as an exception to the size of detached units on these type properties. I just don't want to accidentally set some precedent or something. I agree. Thank you. Further discussion? Alderman Newberg.
 I also wanted to remind people that there were no neighbor Objections to this variation They were all notified and none came forward at the zoning for the discussion hearing none Again, these are Roman numeral 5 B Adams 1 2 & 3 clerk. Please call the roll hi, that's just McNamara frost her being Colonel Thompson Kelly
 Odo Newberg I beat le a back McNeely cheer Ellie I Met her passes matters pass. Thank you. Thank you Thank your honor number three item C Under see item one is the approval of vouchers an amount of five million eight hundred forty seven thousand nine hundred forty three dollars and twenty seven cents I placed it up for passage
 Thank you. Up for passage. I'm sorry, we need a motion. Do we need to spend rules on that? I didn't think on the vouchers we don't need to. Is that a place enough for passage? That is up for passage. If you're not clear, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Aye.
 Thank you, Matt Ers. Matt Ers, thank you. Officers, reports. Somebody short. Number one, just wanted to, for someone who may have been out of the country last week, the Cubs won the World Series. I just think it's important. I know we've had a lot of lifelong Cub fans. And, you know, I think in some ways God works in mysterious ways.
 We are going through a lot of conflict in our country right now.
 It's very tense. A lot of people are wondering not just what's going to happen tomorrow, but also Wednesday. I think in some small way, maybe in a big way, the Cubs winning the World Series is going to help our nation to get through this next little bit. I certainly hope it's an area that a lot of us, you know, it was great to see White Sox fans coming together and actually cheering for the Cubs. It was an outstanding thing. And I hope that poor guy who's a fellow Notre Dame grad, Steve Bartman,
 Remember him from 2003? I hope he can come out of hiding from wherever he may be. So just want to congratulate the Cubs, and I'm just happy that I lived long enough to see it happen. And Jim Ryan just reminded me the Packers lost, but that has nothing to do with the first thing. Also want to mention next week there is going to be on November 15th at Heartland Church,
 an event sponsored by Transform Rockford called the Roadmap Reveal. We've had a number of city staff and obviously lots of community members that have been involved in developing suggestions for Transform Rockford's work in this. It's going to be from 6 o'clock to 7 p.m. at Harlan, doors open at 5 p.m.,
 There's a whole bunch of other, I know our staff is extremely busy and a lot of different work preparing our budget for next year. And there's been some good discussion. I appreciate that. And we will, and I've had a number of conversations with individual aldermen. I would just say continue to, you know, we're going to have to continue to do the work that we are. But just want to put a plug in for the work that will happen after this.
 tomorrow on the state budget. So much of what we're working on from a policy standpoint, from a budget standpoint can be implicated on what may or may not happen after this
 after election day tomorrow. But our hope is that we will get movement in a lot of areas. I'm actually drafting an editorial, which I'm going to try to put in for next Sunday's paper after the election, just focusing on the fact that now that the election's over, we have a lot of work to do and communities across the state. I also wanted to just put one plug in for one of the sad notes last week. We published the notice that Pat Hayes will be leaving the city of Rockford
 The good news is that Pat will be joining the Illinois Municipal League as their general counsel, and that will provide a really valuable connection for us on so many of the issues that have been really important to Rockford. I think the IML will be in great shape with Pat there helping to carry the workload and all of his staff
 Very tough experiences. He had a few less gray hairs when he first started the job, and those gray hairs have been well earned. And, Pat, we'll miss you a lot, but appreciate your work and service for the city. He's got a few more days with us. He'll be leaving, I think his last day is December 5th. And we'll be making some announcements about our plans for legal department between now and then. I'm happy to have conversations with council members along the way. Thank you. Further officers' reports.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to – that was a very good game. It was very stressful, I must say. I know I was exhausted after it. I also want to thank staff for Thursday meeting with me and the business – Auburn on business meeting, Chief O'Shea and Todd Cagnone and Mike Williams.
 Kimberly Bruce and Officer Presley. It was a very informative meeting, and I do appreciate their input and their support on it. I also want to remind all of the pledges for the senior luncheon that make your pledges honorable either tonight or next week. It's our last week, so pony up. Thank you. Thank you very much. Further officer reports. Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you. Thank you. Great game. Excellent game. I wish I could have been in Chicago to celebrate, but certainly enjoyed it watching it on TV. I also was pleased that the Sox joined in and celebrated with them. I look forward to next year.
 I would like to congratulate our city attorney, Patrick Hayes, as well. I'm wishing you the very best. I certainly have enjoyed working with you. And excuse me. There's one more thing. I can't remember. But thank you. Great game. Thank you very much. Further, Officers Partholom and Herbie. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Oh, vote, I'll pick it up for you. Starting tomorrow, 7 a.m. or 6? Is it 6 a.m.? 6 a.m. until 7 p.m.? Make sure I get it right here. I'll tell people something. Please go out and vote. I know there's been a lot of discussion about whether there's anything to vote for. But having been a child and watched people die,
 and suffer. I wasn't around for the women's suffrage movement, I'm not quite that old, but certainly for the civil rights movement, for people to have those rights, to me there is no greater waste than to not exercise a right that we've been given.
 So please get out there and vote, regardless of what people may tell you about the quality of candidates. There are other initiatives that are on the ballot. Agree or disagree, voice your opinion. If you don't like the fact that there's an uncontested seat, don't vote for that seat. Or put in Donald Duck or somebody, Mickey Mouse, I don't care. But get out there and exercise your right to vote. It's the most important thing we can do.
 I'd also like to acknowledge two things that occurred in the Fifth Ward. And I think it shows the criticality of the criminal element that has crept its way into this community. I'm not going to mention the street or the name, but there is a gentleman who's been a Fifth Ward resident recently.
 probably close to 60, 70 years, who is being victimized almost on a daily basis by a family of criminals, a group of juveniles. Chief O'Shea may know the number, but I believe they victimized this elderly gentleman six or seven times. I mean, it's just constant, constant, breaking into his home, threatening his person. He's not leaving. He's not leaving.
 I admired the dickens out of him. The police have had to actually set up. I mean, they just park across the street.
 to have to protect the house. They are that bad. They are that bad. These are people who seem to believe that they can just walk around and break into people's homes and steal whatever they want. And I already got on Alderman Thompson Kelly's case because she sent them out of her ward and ran them over to the fifth. But what I'm really talking about is very serious.
 It shows the weakness of the landlord-tenant ordinance that we have, and I'm gonna beg Mr. Hayes, because I have such respect for what he wanted to do with that ordinance, to ask before he leaves, your final act be to redraft that ordinance. And with the teeth that you believe it needs to have to make this city safe and to hold people accountable,
 for their actions. These people should not have been able to rent anywhere within the boundaries of this city, not with impunity. And literally, they're bouncing from one place to the other and creating havoc.
 I almost went back to my old Italian days in Southwest Rockford and called on La Costra Nostra to come and take care of dead serious. We used to deal with it a different way. We don't do that anymore, but I want really to send these people to sleep with the fishies.
 But it's just horrible what they've done to this poor man. So, please, let's get an ordinance that allows us to hold landlords accountable for renting to these people. Thank you. So, a number of hands went up. Alderman McNeely, I think, had a follow-up. Yes. And then we'll get back to, I think, Alderman Connell and Alderman Odom. Was that your hand, too? Thompson-Kellogg. Go ahead. Thank you so much. I'm impressed with that.
 but I certainly want to remind everyone to get out tomorrow and exercise your right to vote.
 As Auderman Hervey said, people have died for years, for decades, for the right to vote. And certainly women. Some people don't consider it significant that we do have a first woman up for running for president. I consider it significant. I considered it significant when we had the first
 black African American be up for election for president. And I think that we as Americans, as we see all the things that are going on throughout this world, we truly need to observe and appreciate our country and our rights. So don't take it for granted. Millenniums, none of us. Hopefully
 The seniors did get the opportunity to have the mail-in or early voting, but if you didn't, if you know someone, a senior or someone, assist them, take them to the poll tomorrow. If you don't know where your poll is, you certainly can call the Board of Election, and they will direct you. Thank you.
 I'm sure there will be plenty of phone calls to your house if you need some help to get to the polls. Just go. Just go. Whether you know who to vote for or not to vote for, exercise your right to vote. And I also would like to encourage us for, I don't know if this is the same family or not, but I certainly have a family in my ward that has moved around the city.
 also known for them not wanting to, no one wanting them to live in that particular neighborhood or any other neighborhood.
 So, Chief, you would know, and certainly we don't want to discuss it openly, but if it is, we certainly need to address this. I, for one, would be more than willing to go to this individual's house. As a community, we need to show support. We know what's going on with these youngsters going and threatening, particularly senior citizens, right?
 It's not the first time. Your ward is not the first ward that maybe not the same group of individuals, but it's certainly not the first time that something like this is happening. This is a time that I think that we should come together as a community to show support to the gentleman that has been accosted, whose home has been broken into. I recall years ago when we had...
 a Muslim bakery come to our community. And there were people that were going to the bakery, going inside the bakery, spitting on the people, calling them all kind of names. And we came together as a community and went to that bakery. And we bought coffee and we bought whatever bakery items there was. That made a huge difference. I don't believe we received any more calls.
 from the owner of that bakery regarding people coming in, threatening them and doing just stupid stuff. So I think that we as a community, if we're allowed to know what that address is, to go and show this gentleman support. And I hope that we will. And I will take the liberty of saying that we can call the mayor's office,
 for someone that may have some suggestion or for individuals that want to participate doing that. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley, I think you were next. I just want to add to the request that Alderman Hervey made of Mr. Hayes that along with your recommendations, because you also look at a fee structure for that registry as well, because it's definitely going to have an effect on the budget.
 Thank you. Olleman Connell, then Olleman Otto.
 Yes, I'd like to acknowledge and thank NIRW for their Take a Veteran to Breakfast at the command post last Saturday. It was a great opportunity to actually thank the veterans and to listen to their stories about their service for our country. So I want to make sure that everybody please remember to thank a veteran for their service this week and ongoing and remember to vote because that's what they fought for. Absolutely. All of Minota.
 I would like to back up what Alderman Hervey and Alderman Thompson-Kelly have said. I've had that same type of issue in my ward to the point where the nuisance abatement vehicle had to come out. So not to put unnecessary pressure on Director Patrick Hayes, but I think that we need to have a little bit more control, and I believe that we allowed the—
 the landlord association to have way too much say so because they're not getting the calls. They're not going to the neighborhood and on the block where those people are afraid. It's the aldermen that are. We're getting the calls, the police.
 So I think that we need to do our job as city officials, and I think we need to do it the way that it should have been done. And so, Director Hayes, please, before you go, please help us fix that so that we can have some type of control over these landlords and these situations instead of these people moving from neighborhood to neighborhood to neighborhood. Further officer's reports. I'll be back.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I wasn't sure if Alderman McNamara was going to speak on this, but just remember us, we're ribbon cutting today. It was a very exciting opening of an Alpine Bank branch on North Main and Auburn. Well, actually North Main and Myatt, but right there by the
 Alpine Bank, their investment in that area definitely benefits a lot of people. Very convenient location, excellent walkable neighborhood branch and just a lot of excitement in the area about it, just seeing something new and something that is going to get a lot of support from the neighborhood. So just wanted to send a big shout out to Alpine Bank for believing in our community and believing in Northwest Rockford.
 One other footnote on that, and I'm glad you brought it up. They said that their sales and just visits are already ahead of their schedule, or what they projected quite a bit, number one. Number two, they said when the founding bank for them was Belvedere Bank, that opened in –
 1908 which happen to be the last year prior to this year when the Cubs open the World Series or won a World Series So I said if they open up another Westside Bank Location maybe they'll get another World Series for the Cubs next year. So we'll hope that occurs There's another hand that was up on the beach. Thank your honor a few weeks back. I made a comment about Some of these massage parlors that are open up so that leaving some problems I discussed it with the chief and there are more questions
 creeping up and I think that our ordinance needs to be looked at to tighten up that we can have a better look when applications come and I am concerned because right now they're just all of a sudden appearing and signs go up and once they're up in business it's very hard to deal with at that time so I'm not sure exactly what we do forward, why we do this but both of them in the 10th warden we're very concerned about that. Let me get you this, I apologize you had your hand up earlier and I missed you. I just wanted to
 comment on what Alderman Beech had said. Remember, I think it was a couple months ago, we had a discussion when approving a liquor license on this, and we talked about submitting a resolution to the Legislative and Lobbying Committee. I drafted that resolution, I think I emailed it to everybody, and we just haven't had a meeting yet. I did just kind of base on everybody's
 receiving that draft resolution really well. I've reached out to our Springfield contingent and our lobbyist. I'm trying to move that forward because in order for us to pass an ordinance, we're going to need some help from Springfield due to our lack of home rule authority. I'm kind of under the radar trying to push that forward to give us the authority to do just what it is that you're saying, which is to take up an ordinance that can help the
 make it so that we've got a say as to whether or not
 an institution has the right to a practice massage. So what I'd ask my colleagues is just to be thinking of ideas of what would we want that ordinance to look like. As Alderman Hervey said, we're having that discussion. There are a lot of fine establishments out there that offer a very helpful service that helps people rehabilitate, but we need to make sure that they stay in business and those who are potentially operating as fronts for human trafficking and other illicit activities are not allowed to practice in the City of Rockford.
 I am out work moving out and forward are just why I would like to echo the same appreciation for our
 Attorney Hayes, Patrick's done an absolutely fantastic job really helping me get my feet under me as an alderman as to what we can do and can't do and making a lot of very helpful suggestions. So I really thank him for that. Then I would like to say that there's a lot of talk this year about the 108-year curse for my Chicago Cubs. I would like to echo to everybody there's a 109-year curse for the Cubs winning back-to-back World Series championships. So looking forward to seeing that broke next year.
 Thank you. Further officer's reports. Just wanted one other editorial note in terms of the election tomorrow. I believe I read that there's already been well over 13,000 people who have voted. There was a long line outside the downtown location.
 for early voting today, and I'd heard the similar case for the Eastside location. So from the standpoint of our local democracy, I also saw that record numbers of early voting in the state of Illinois across the board, so there's a lot of people who are engaged in this election. That's certainly a positive thing from the standpoint of engagement and hopefully puts us in good condition to move forward whatever happens on Wednesday for the work we have to do.
 Over Newburgh. Thank you. I just wanted to meet the people of the city. The ninth ward has had quite a few Residential robberies attempts and I just want to remind people citywide it's getting darker earlier, but these are during the day and
 So it's not just at night. Please, remember, lock your doors, lock your garages, put your garage doors down. If you have gates, put locks on your gates. Help the police as much as you can. If you see something in your neighborhood that is strange, call the non-emergency number and let the police know about that. They are working. They have done some arrests, but they need the citizens' help on this.
 Thank you. It's a great reminder and reminds me of the point that the majority of our robberies typically are during daylight hours, obviously when people are more often at home. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just two things. There was an extended discussion on two items on the council floor during officers' reports, that of residential property ordinances as well as massage parlors.
 And, again, it came up that home rule is a, that lack of home rule is a hindrance. Sooner or later, we have to address the elephant in the room and consider this with some serious thought and move forward with it. Otherwise, we just do the same thing over and over again, which is the definition of insanity. The other, also, I'd like to echo many of the council members regarding Attorney Hayes. I've...
 I learned quite a bit from attorney Hayes. I found him to be pretty patient with me in some arenas and have found him to be a man of integrity and honor. And I think he's represented the city well. Although we may disagree with him, part of his oath is to represent his client with zealousness.
 And I think over the years, he's done that. He's done that with integrity and honor. And I've always been impressed by his knowledge and his capability. So I personally will miss him. And I think it's a little bit of a loss for the city. So thanks. And just as a reminder, we'll have a few more meetings to work him over until he leaves. So don't miss the item or anything else on us, Mr. Hayes. We still have some work for you to do.
 Appreciate that. And, again, he won't be far away. So anytime we're going to be down in Springfield, we'll have to pay him a visit. We'll look forward to that. Alderman Beach. I'm sorry. May I speak again? Sure. One of the things that was crossing my mind in the last week or two is that in discussion with the chief, he's saying to us that the way we report crime, the way we get our statistics, is different than the way most departments report, which may sometimes inflate.
 where we are in relation to others and if i'm understanding that correctly then i'm wondering if it makes any sense at all if nothing more than our own understanding is if we can calculate just on a side sheet the way everybody else is calculating their crime and compare those numbers because if we're preparing them correctly and that would inflate our numbers compared to everyone else
 I don't think that's fair, and not that we enjoy any negative statistics. We want our crime down. But if what I'm thinking is true and what I understand to be true, I just thought I'd put it on the floor and see if that makes any sense at all. Thank you. So just as an initial response, and I would leave it up to Chief O'Shea to –
 me if I am in error, but generally speaking, the National Incident-Based Reporting System, or NIBRS for short, which is the one that we use, is the sort of gold standard, and that's the one that the FBI at national levels is promoting. The UCR is what most of the departments still do, Uniform, what's the Stanford on UCR?
 crime reporting system. So our numbers do get translated into UCR, if I remember correctly, and that is actually what we end up getting compared against. There's a lot of nuance into, I've read some of the materials, Chief O'Shea, and I've talked about it at times about potentially, I don't know that we are over-reporting. I think we're accurately reporting, and I think there may be other departments that
 you know, don't have the same level of accuracy that we have. And we've reviewed this. It was an issue several years ago. So, I don't know, Chief O'Shea, if you want to add any more to that or if you want to leave it to a longer discussion at a different date.
 I'll gladly forward the difference between NIBRS and UCR side by side. Our records manager has it on a sheet, and it'll show you very accurately what the difference is. It's not an apples to oranges. It's kind of a...
 Macintosh Apple to a different kind of Apple type of reporting, but it is more accurate reporting. Everyone in the country is supposed to be reporting on NIBRS by I believe 2020 according to the FBI. But you need to actually see it, so I will gladly forward that to the council and the mayor. And it's side by side, and Roger Rates has laid it out, so there's no misinterpretation, there's no miscommunication, you can see it for yourself and have the actual factual data.
 Thank you. Alan Beach? Yes, well, I really appreciate that because whatever difference it is, we're the ones that are getting the blasted headlines. We're the ones that are being told we're the second worst city in these kind of things based on some numbers. I like to see them, and I really appreciate whatever you can do for that. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports unfinished. I'm sorry, motions and resolutions. Alan Beck? Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 7C...
 items 1 through 8 I would place up for passage thank you motion and resolutions Roman and most 7c items 1 through 8 up for passages their discussion
 Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. Just for item three, I believe last week or the week prior we had, I guess the week prior, we had an item for light vehicles. Was that taken off the agenda? Yes. I just do not remember. That was laid over. The administration actually wanted to take a further look at it. So thank you. Alderman Newberg. Number seven, the rejection of the bids. Okay.
 Is there a timetable on putting out a bid, or are we in a certain time this has to be done by to take new bids? Mr. Ryan? Beyond getting anything done this year. So we would like to go out to bid as soon as we can to get cheap prices, but the majority of the landscaping work obviously would be next year. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm gonna frost. Thank you. I just had a question with regard to the award of bid for the janitorial services on the on the spreadsheet I noticed that in the group one item two. Yes, I'm sorry number two on the Spreadsheet that was attached or the bid tabulation. I noticed that under City Yards administration and then City Yards CG and building 8 and the water division on Cedar Street that it appears to me that the charges the monthly charges are
 are all seemingly rather high for cleaning the building. I just didn't know what, is there something specific about the city yards administration building that makes it so high or their building eight that makes it? Your Honor, this did come up at committee, and I believe Director Eklund was able to shed some light on that. I'm not sure. Ms. Eklund, I'll take that.
 Well, I think that the City Yards Admin Building, we have a number of staff, field staff coming in and out of the building on a regular basis. They have lockers in that area. So I don't know if you've been in the Yards Admin Building, but it does get –
 Pretty dirty on a regular basis because you have those that's where they that's where they take breaks Punch in and out start the day in the day so that that is a possibility for the additional cost in that in that space on the frost and I just CG in building 8
 That's another building I take it all together? Yes, so that's the central garage, and Building 8 is where the traffic staff operate, the sign shop, and the signal repair area. So there's some administrative offices, supervisor offices, and then, again, some general work areas there. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion and any of the items. If not, clerk, please call the roll. Again, this is Roman numeral 7C, items 1 through 8.
 Getschus Aye McNamara No on 2, aye on the remainder Ross No on 2, aye on the remainder Irving Aye Connell Thompson-Kelley Odo Newberg Beach Aye Ellier Beck Aye McNeely Chiarelli Items 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, 14 ayes. Item number 2, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Matters will pass. Thank you.
 In business, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item under Roman numeral 8A1. I'm sorry, Mr. Hayes, did you say something? Oh, I'm sorry. That laid over. That's laid over. Pardon me? Mr. Durkee's matter, or Dr. Durkee's matter laid over. It's laid over, yeah. I'm sorry. I made an error. I should have caught that. You're absolutely right. My apologies. So, yeah, the matter did lay over under its committee report. So, that is not up. We'll go to Alderman Shirelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. On the Roman numeral 8, B, 1, and 2, I move to suspend the rules. Second. I'm going to motion, excuse me, motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 8, B, items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Your Honor, I place those two ordinances up for passage. The matters are up for passage. Is there discussion? Alderman Forrest. Thank you. With regard to number 2, the...
 New Business Bocce restaurant on 2990 North Perryville Road. This isn't in my ward, it's just outside my ward and since that building has been built it's had the pleasure of having a couple good places in there and the last one really didn't work out so so much and I know that there was some concern at the ZBA meeting about some protesters and I just wanted to make
 Make it clear to the objectors and everyone here that the folks that are going to be running this place are part of the Cascivanni family that's been involved in running a number of restaurants and grocery stores in Rockford. And I've known them always to do a great job, and I wish them well, and hopefully this will pass, and there will be a new place to go for breakfast and lunch and dinner in Rockford. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion on any of the items. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Durkee Aye Goetzes Aye McNamara Aye St. Louis Ross Aye Hervey Aye Connell Aye Thompson-Kelley Odo Aye Newberg Aye Beach Aye Elliott
 back I think nearly cheerily I 14 I sure that is back woman show yes you're on I have one more item that I need to read in tonight it's an ordinance approving a variation for required landscaping heard the submitted site plan and approval of a variation the required parking spaces for the submitted site plan in a C 3 general commercial zoning district at 2019 and 2021 South Main Street and I am laying
 I'm laying that item over automatically, Your Honor. This item was approved as a committee report in September 15, 2014, for this address, and it was inadvertently not placed on our city council agenda for the ordinance. So that's why I'm rereading it in tonight and laying it over so we can vote on it at the next scheduled council meeting. As an ordinance on the 21st. As an ordinance. Thank you. All right. Thank you.
 Any further items of business before the council? Thank you. There's a motion to adjourn and there's been a second in the discussion. All those in favor of adjourning, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes 7, means adjourned.