On October 28th, 2024. We have a motion by Alderman Beach, a second by Alderman Tarina. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay, thank you. So next we have some amazing guests with us this evening that we want to honor this evening here as city council. We'll give the parents a little bit of time to come on in as well. So we're really fortunate this evening that we have with us the Guilford High School flag football team that placed second in the state of Illinois. So I want to call out, we have Coach Greg Taylor, Assistant Coach Gregory Ford, Assistant Coach Johnson. With us we have 15 seniors, I believe, and the rest are sophomores and juniors. But if you are like me you were kind of captivated at least online With this amazing run that these fantastic Ladies have had I just want to say on behalf of the city of Rockford how proud I am how proud this City Council is And how proud our entire community is you are amazing? scholar athletes in our city and we couldn't be a really more proud of the work that you've done on and off the field, especially not just getting second in the state, but this is historic because this was the first time that this could happen. And you have put the city of Rockford, Guilford, and the amazing ladies of Guilford on the map and in the history books forever. And with that, we at the city provide every person who goes way above and beyond in the city, either city staff or a citizen, what we call a challenge coin. This may be a little difficult to do with how many there are here, but we provide them with a challenge coin. And this tradition that dates way back, but it's for people who have went above and beyond. And you have went above and beyond. You've done it on the field. You've also, how you carried yourselves throughout the entire season, you've made us proud. You've went above and beyond representing not only yourself, your family, your neighborhood, but our city. And I just wanna say on behalf of the city, I thank you, we appreciate you, and congratulations. I may walk over here and hand each of you as you walk out. uh... this challenge point but i believe we have my you want to say a few words do i get to hold that for your now it hi everybody how you doing today okay uh... i've been playing fly football for twelve years now plan on his team with bodies girls and in coast cost us any cost a lot of cost for uh... they're great mentors everyone's wonderful in Even though we didn't come out number one in the end, sometimes the number one team doesn't always win. And I mean, after we left, I was crying every day because I'll never get the chance to play with them ever again because it's my last year. But I just want to say thank you all for celebrating us. And I appreciate it from the bottom of my heart. And we do, too. And I will also say, I believe today you were named, what, number five in the country? Is that right? On ESPN? Number five in the country? Thank you. We want to thank the city of Rockford and the surrounding areas for supporting us. We have coaches from other teams outside of this area who made contact with us, congratulating us, and they were really supporting us, and we appreciate that. And, Mayor, we really appreciate you taking the time out to invite us here and coming to see us off when we headed down to state, and we would like to present you with a game ball. Thank you. This is remarkable. Just made my day. I don't know if I want to give that to you. All right. Someone watch Mark. So I think I'll have you exit, but as you exit, I'll give each of you a coin. And if someone isn't able to be here, we have coins so we can make sure that they are shared. Thank you so much. And one thing I didn't mention, and I should have, so I apologize. I want to say thank you to the families. Thank you. What we need right now is a lot of people loving on our kids. And you are showing that day in and day out, that you are loving on these kids. I just want to say I appreciate that. And we as a city sincerely appreciate your involvement and commitment to these young people when they're on the field and when they're off the field. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great. And the chair's back. Thank you, Councilmembers and everyone in the audience. I just feel they've just done an amazing job and have been just really captivating throughout their season. With that, we'll be moving right along. We have no proclamations. We'll move into petitions and communications, and we'll begin with Planning and Development and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, we have a memorandum from Tim Hinkins, City Engineer and Interim Public Works Director, regarding the approval and acceptance of the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity budgetary line item grant for Mason Avenue reconstruction, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And all items will be referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number two is a memorandum from Samantha Flynn, Stormwater and Environmental Coordinator, regarding the approval and acceptance of the Green Infrastructure Grant Opportunities Application to Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for the Northwest Concrete Drainage Way. Item three is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed development agreement with NTRK for the demolition and future redevelopment of 2729 Kishwaukee Street, former Rock River School. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. our committee has five items item number one the traffic commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on november 13 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on november 25 2024 a memorandum from jacob rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 2821 north bell school road number three is a memorandum from jacob rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 3738 south main street Number four is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 4555 Spring Creek Road. And number five is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed placement for the sale of 813, 819, 821, and 825 West State Street and 111 and 125 Kilburn Avenue. And all five of these items will be referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and Alderman frost I care number one is the memorandum from Timothy Hinkins regarding the jurisdictional transfer of Bell School Road from Argus Drive to Guilford Road and Number two as a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins regarding the jurisdictional transfer of Linden Road and both these mayors will be will be referred to the finance And personnel committee. Thank you Next we'll have our public speakers I So next we have our public speakers. There's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers Uh, you have three minutes to address, uh the city council Uh, there will be a buzzer that or an alarm that will go off that is for you to close your comment uh also, I would Ask that we have some decorum inside council chambers. Obviously a very uh, very deeply personal issue that will be discussed, I'm sure, by many of the speakers and ask that we have some civility with inside these chambers for those speakers. Our first speaker this evening is Goldie Pekarski of Rockford. Thank you for this opportunity to speak. As the Mayor said, my name is Goldie Pekarski. I'm a retired Rockford public school teacher. I'm currently the Executive Director of the Jewish Federation, and I'm a second-generation Holocaust survivor. I was born in a refugee camp in Germany in 1949 to parents who had suffered the unimaginable loss of their entire families. I could never understand how so many people worldwide could hate Jews during that time period. But now I see it unfolding before my eyes. The first thing that happens is anti-Semitic propaganda. Anti-Semitism is an evolving conspiracy theory, and today it targets the only Jewish state in the world, Israel. Faceless accusations of genocide and apartheid seek to demonize and delegitimize Israel. Even though the Jews are indigenous to this land, with roots going back thousands of years, an early history of the Jews and their connection to the land can be found in the Old Testament. Another stage of hate is the erosion of logic. On October 7, Israel was viciously attacked, starting the war. Thousands of Gazans invaded, kidnapping 250 people and committing barbaric acts. Hamas, which is recognized as a terrorist organization in the U.S. and others, has vowed to repeat October 7 over and over. They're going to do it over and over. Israel has no choice but to protect its people by defeating Hamas. Hamas's strategy is to use Palestinian civilians as human shields, seeking sympathy and pressure on Israel to stop defending itself. How is it possible that the protesters want the Palestinian people to continue to be ruled by these heartless terrorists? The City Council's job is to protect and unite everyone in Rockford, and this resolution does the exact opposite. It creates hostility, divisiveness, and danger. The proposed ceasefire resolution is highly charged misinformation and is part of a national political agenda. Already, a pro-Hamas group here has boycotted a Jewish-owned business. Passing this resolution will only embolden such actions, risking Rockford's reputation and discouraging Jewish professionals and businesses from coming here. Our Jewish community has contributed much to Rockford, and we've always welcomed others, including Muslim professionals and businesses. But we can't stand by as this hatred grows. There is a saying, what starts with the Jews doesn't end with the Jews. Goldie, I'm sorry, my alarm did go off. It's just not very loud. Thank you. Sorry about that. I'm going to try to get that fixed. I'm going to try to get that fixed, but after three minutes, if I see that it's going down to zero, I am going to just ask the speaker to stop. My thank you for that. Our next public speaker is Nadine Siddiqui of Cherry Valley. Thank you, everyone, for having me here. Dear Alderman and... Let me introduce myself. I am a physician in a local hospital for the last 18 years. I am here today to speak on humanitarian aspect of this Gaza war, which is the worst humanitarian crisis we are witnessing in our lifetime, according to the UN. I earned my citizenship by serving under Serb Derga in Beloit for five years. I took care of thousands of Rockfordians. You know, I'm a nocturnist. I work 14-hour shift at night. I took care of hundreds of COVID patients. I also started, founded a bridge clinic in 2008, which is in downtown, you know, here, which provides health care to those who have no insurance. You know, those people who have no insurance, they can come here and have some care in 2008. I have organized blood drives at Muslim Center twice a year for last 10 years. What's happening in Gaza is the worst human catastrophe in our lifetime. Gaza is a small strip of land 25 by 4 miles where 2.5 million people live. 70% of the total population are aged less than 20. Let me give you some examples of life in Gaza. As most of you seen in clips and heard two stories with most tearful, which are very tearful and traumatizing. I have a clip where a doctor surgeon is amputating her daughter in her kitchen without anesthesia, when the hospital is half a mile away. According to one report, there are thousands of pregnant women who will go into labor within a few weeks. Imagine somebody going into labor in rubble without water and anesthesia, for God's sake. Imagine, for example, you have this building. If a missile strikes here, I don't think most of you will survive. Those people who are lucky to survive will be under sniper fire. This is what life is like in Gaza. Most recorded age of death in the life in the life in the people in in the last few months is less than five What I request today enough is enough We should not take any side vote for ceasefire resolution on humanitarian basis. It's a small step in with profound moral effect as 70 cities have taken in United States, including Chicago. What will it do? This will facilitate life-saving assistance to starving and dying families with children. Restore water electricity. That's what I want. I thank you, everybody. So it's going to be difficult for us to continue to move forward if we thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Jim Roberts. And Mr. Roberts, can you give me one second? I'm gonna see if I can get this working. You don't have to have it work. It's fine. No, I know you too well. I gotta have that work. Give me one second, sir. Thank you, sir. I'm Jim Roberts. I was a pastor for 36 years. at Emmanuel Lutheran Church about five blocks from here, southeast. I don't know where I am, but it's close. And I'm friends of Goldie. We're both on the Interfaith Council. We don't always agree, but we respect each other. It's very hard to watch TV at night. with all this been going on in the Middle East. It's excruciating. I don't know, our children are grown, but I don't know how they would handle watching all of this from October 7th through the West Bank going on, those hostages, the refugees, starvation, death, missiles, drones, rifles, bombs, boulders, and despair. The big sticky word in the resolution is the word genocide. It's clear to me that President Netanyahu has the power and the weapons to do something like that. And that scares me. This does not reflect upon Jewish people all over the world. It's not the same thing. This is not anti-Semitism. I stand with the Jews in Palestine who are out in the street trying to protest their own government and bring an end to the war in Gaza. I stand with the five Hasidic Jews that travel from New York City to Chicago by the Chicago Convention Center to stand with Palestinian people. And they held up signs saying, we are Jews too. I was very impressed with them. They're very serious, as if to distance themselves. In the Hebrew Bible, we were made from mud in the image of God, as children of God, a God whose love has no bounds. In the Christian New Testament, we're still mud. We're still in the image of God. We're still the children of God. And that God's love has no bounds. In the Quran, We're still mud. We're still an image of God and the children of God whose love has no bounds. And before every surah in the Koran is bismillah ar-Rahman ir-Rahim. And that is another way of saying our God has no bounds. Thank you, sir. I'm done? You are done. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Rony Galan of Rockford. Good evening, Mayor, Council Members and the public. Thank you for allowing me to speak today. My name is Ronny Golan and I'm a Jewish, American and Israeli, but also representing the local Jewish community of Greater Rockford. I'm a local artist and a gallery owner. My sixth consecutive art gallery in Rockford in the past 28 years is the Underground Gallery right across the street from here. First let me say that since I have only three minutes, I will not be able to talk about these following subjects and some others. I will not talk about our responsibility of fighting terrorism. I will not talk about Hamas being a designated terror group. I will not talk about releasing the hostages that are suffering in the tunnels under Gaza. I will not talk about people starting a war and then complaining they are losing. I will not talk about morality and cowardice of hiding behind women and children and using them as human shields. I will not talk about many other lies and dangerous propaganda, but I will say this. As city council members, you have the right to your own political views. It is a free country after all, but the office you hold now cannot and should not be about international politics. You are elected to serve us all and not to pick aside international affairs. For this we have the federal government. If you vote for this resolution, you are picking aside and you are marking yourself as political in matters that have nothing to do with our city. Approving the resolution will open the door for future resolution about everything else besides serving the Rockford community. You will be marching directly into a political trap and there will be no return. You can expect resolution after resolution that will force your hand to choose publicly a side in any conflict that is going on around the world right now. How about your opinion on Sudan's war going on as I speak? What's your opinion on 8.1 million displaced and 2.1 million refugees and estimated 65,000 dead? I'm interested in your opinion on the war in Yemen, over 150,000 people dead or murdered as of today. Should we have a resolution about that as well? If I'm interested in your political opinion of any conflict, I will meet with you personally or call you. Approving this resolution will create a rift in our community and some people will obviously feel alienated. This is already happening now in Rockford and I am talking from personal experience. During the two days of art scene, I had protestors blocking the entrance to my gallery by shouting, screaming and scaring people away. I am not personally afraid, but yes, I am troubled for the state of our city when I am offered by the police to be escorted to my car for safety. This is Rockford 2024. This kind of resolution will strengthen the protest to be bolder and disrupt our life as one community. And so I ask you to vote no to this resolution and keep international politics outside of these chambers. Thank you very much and you can give my time to the next speaker if you want. Okay, thank you. Our next public speaker is Robert Pates. I'm going to be changing the subject. So this evening I want to speak about the Rockford Promise program that you're going to be voting on. And I do believe that it should be opened up to the private school students. I think it's only fair. I think the next part of this concept would be to encourage college students to return to Rockford with their new knowledge base and add Rockford, which would add to Rockford an increasing education level that employers look at when they're looking or seeking to expand their businesses. Increasing the education level. of our residents will also increase our per capita income, and that's what a lot of businesses look at to bring in their stores. And that's what's holding back some of the stores moving into Rockford. And lastly, Rockford needs to become an attractive place to young minds that we want to return to Rockford. And so that happens by marketing Rockford as an affordable destination for young minds and families to create the future that they want to live, patronize, and prosper in. From trendy boutiques and grocery stores to kitschy retail shops to independent bookstores to bars and clubs that make young people feel like they're right in the middle of something happening to restaurants and that expand our palette of flavors and our multicultural society. That's what expanding educational opportunities can do for Rockford. Thank you for your time. Next we're going to move to new committee reports and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, committee recommends approval of the proposed funding agreement, long-term loan, and the amount of $500,000 annually for two years for the continued capitalization and advancement of the community development financial institution in partnership with Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation, Rockford Local Development Corporation, and local financial institutions. The funding source is the casino tax revenue plan. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. item two committee recommends approval of the proposed funding agreement in the amount of $100,000 with Discovery Center Discovery Center Museum Park for HVAC replacement project for the multi-tenant building located at 711 North Main Street the funding sources the budget surplus plan the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank You counsel got two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? I Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have eight items. Another item number one the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking from 7 a.m. To 5 p.m Restriction on the south side of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street. It's 100 feet east of 12th Street Thus repealing the existing parking restriction of no parking from 7 a.m. To 4 p.m On the south side of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 11 feet 100 feet east of 11 12 Street. Oh The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4725 and 47XX West State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the 2024-2025 contract between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a strip center for a halal kosher grocery store, a convenience store, a dry cleaner, restaurants, a community center, three office buildings, 28 duplexes, 25 four-unit buildings, and 16... 4 unit townhomes in a C1 limited office zoning district and R3 multifamily residential zoning district. At 3XX, 5XX, and 9XX South Mulford Road and 61XX East State Street, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals recommendation of denial for a special use permit for an outdoor U-Haul truck rental in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 320 North Mulford Road. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 2975 North Perryville Road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 1603 11th Street. the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and lastly number eight the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant laundry facility and video gaming terminals in the c2 limited commercial zoning district at 3333 north watson avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you Thank you. So council we have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those eight items alderman frost? Yeah, I make a motion to lay over number four. That was a motion to lay over number four. Did I get that right? So we have a motion we have a second and that'll be automatically laid over So we have items one through three and items five through eight. Is there any further discussion? All the wrong makes thank you so much item number five are are we talking about i don't know who would i speak to about this item uh mr cagnone could are are we talking about two u-haul trucks i believe it was two u-haul trucks this would be at 320 south mulford which is the gas station on the west side of mulford road are they parking them behind the gas station are they kind of out of sight i i can't state if they're completely out of sight um i think i believe you would be able to see them from mulford road And so what was the reasoning behind the denial from the Board of Appeals? Staff recommendation was for denial We had identified this as a code violation that had resulted with the applicant the property owner pursuing the special use permit and generally the zoning Board of Appeals felt it wasn't appropriate use at that location Let me just understand so they had a code violation or That is, yes. This individual? And so when they applied because they had a code violation, that's why it was denied by staff? Staff recommended denial because they didn't believe it was appropriate use at that location. Okay. Thank you so much. Any other discussion on the remaining items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 13 eyes. Thank you next we're gonna go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost Thank you Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $9,034,574.03 as approved in the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on October 28, 2024. Number two, the committee recommends approval of a grant of easement at 115 North Madison to Commonwealth Edison for installation of equipment needed to bury overhead power lines as part of the Madison Street Reconstruction Project, a legal directive shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement between Rockford University, Rockford Promise, and the City of Rockford for a location-based scholarship program. The proposal would allow eligible students graduating from a private or public high school in the City of Rockford and students that live in the City of Rockford that are eligible for the federal Pell Grant and the State of Illinois MAP Grant the ability to earn a bachelor's degree from Rockford University with all tuition paid. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four is the proposed sale the city-owned property at 605 North Main Street to the Rockford Area Arts Council for their bid of $1,000 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these four minutes before you Thank you council got four items before us any discussion on those four items clerk. Will you please call the roll? Toomer frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey Bonnie, 13 ayes. Thank you. Next, we have officers' reports. Any council members have reports? Alderman Bonnie? Thank you. First, I wanted to invite everyone here and the public to the soft opening of the Lit Hookah Lounge in the 14th Ward this Friday from 4 to 10 p.m. Is in the it's the same location as it was previously under a previous owner. It's at the northeast corner of Alpine and Harrison And I want to congratulate the owner Abrahima Allah show this is a Palestinian owned business and thank all of the aldermen who supported my proposal to amend our hookah ordinance to allow byo be to Provide this be a sustainable business model Going forward. I think this is gonna this establishment will be a least a small shot in the arm to a shopping center that could use some more livelihood and I'm excited by the prospect of the possibility that something there'll be an announcement soon the Currently vacant save a lot grocery store that in that same mall that was that Closed no not too long ago. I hear that right on Friday. You're bringing beer for everyone you know I Didn't steal the football we need to have work on I trust issues Tom I'll buy you a beer. Let's put it that way I The other, I also wanted to on a personal note, I've been absent from council quite a bit lately. I had a 80% blockage in my widowmaker artery and I had a stent put in it and I had some ongoing problems after that, including a sudden cardiac event about 10 days ago. where, in fact, I was actually in the emergency room five times in six weeks. The first four times I drove myself, but the fifth time I did need to call 911. And so I wanted to thank all of our firefighters and paramedics who came to my home. and transported me to OSF and I had to ask Chief Pankow today to identify them for me because the trip was somewhat of a blur now. To be perfectly honest, I was gasping for air and wasn't sure I was going to make it to the hospital. And, you know, the one I had watched the council meeting where, ambulance times were debated and dr. Turkley Durkee rightly noted the the you know the matter of minutes that could be life and death and so I also asked the fire chief for the response time which was seven minutes and three seconds from the time they received my call to the time they arrived at my door and so I want to you know the most the most important thing really was that in it, you know and what was a sort of terror inducing situation for me everyone I dealt with on the fire and rescue team Made me feel as calm as was probably possible under the circumstances and You know I was Chewing baby aspirin and taking nitroglycerin and the ride from you know, it's probably Maybe not even a mile from my house to OSF seemed quite long, but it You know, it was it was In nor immensely Better for the crew that that was there and so I wanted to thank this was a engine 11 lieutenant Chris Beeman firefighter paramedic Pat Nielsen and Firefighter paramedic Larry Walton. It was medic 11 firefighter paramedic Mulati or Casey Malati firefighter paramedic Joe Puccini and the call taker was telek telecommunicator Tegan Cox who incidentally stayed with me on the phone until for that seven minutes and three seconds and until they arrived and I Finally, I would like to thank the Chief for her leadership of this department. And it is a, you know, anytime we discuss this, it really is, you know, we are talking about matters of life and death. And, you know, I guess it's hard to find the words to express, you know, what it feels like to be on the, you know, Inside of an ambulance when you know compared to what it is like to talk about it when we're sitting here So thank you to everybody. Thank you I think we speak for the full council leaders happy that you're doing okay, so we're happy that you're back other rose and then alderman toberg Just real quick if you have not had a chance to see the show POTUS at the West Side showroom Check it out. There is Some shows happening this weekend on Friday and going into Saturday One of the things I came across on their feed was that they're not able to actually advertise because the links in Facebook and some of the social media chats are blocking it due to the presidential election. So, but it's POTUS is the name of the show on at the West Side Showroom. If you can make it, they would definitely appreciate it. You can go to the West Side Showroom on Facebook and you can find more information on the tickets available for those shows. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. uh this friday three to six noah's ark animal sanctuary is partnering with whispering willow pet funeral and cremation services for twenty dollars uh they are doing the pause for patriots now again this is free for individuals but for veterans pause for patriots uh they will sponsor up to $2,000 worth of cat and dog adoptions for US veterans the veterans from Any veterans from Winnebago County and Boone County will only need to pay $20 towards the adoption of a pet so they will need to provide proof of status of their veteran ship and anyone who knows a veteran who is looking for a furry friend and They can go down there, and I know Alderwoman Prunty may be down there because they do have operations in her ward, and Noah's Ark is in the third ward. So it's a good cause. So if anybody can make it down there or knows veterans who are looking for a furry friend, let them know about this endeavor. Thank you. Thank you all the one makes I just want to remind everyone that Rockford Mass Transit District is offering free rides for voters on Election Day between 6 a.m. And 7 p.m. TO RECEIVE THE FREE RIDES FOR A FIXED ROUTE, PASSENGERS ARE ASKED TO SELF-IDENTIFY TO OPERATORS THAT THEY'RE EITHER COMING OR GOING TO A POLLING PLACE WITHIN RMTD'S SERVICE AREA. AND THIS ALSO DOES APPLY TO PARATRANSIT RIDERS. UNFORTUNATELY, YOU DID NEED TO GET THAT IN BEFORE 5 O'CLOCK TODAY. Apologize for getting this information out But I do want to let everyone know if you are a registered voter and you don't have transportation to the polls All you have to do is find your closest fixed bus route and it will get you to your polling place. Thank you Thank you. And thanks for sharing that information any other reports, okay Next our appointment is still laid over. I believe till the 6th. So we'll move to motions and resolutions and We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the 2025 City Council and Committee Calendar. And number two, the committee recommends approval of the Festival of Lights and IDOT Resolution. The Festival of Lights is scheduled for the following dates, November 29th to December 1st, December 5th to the 8th, December 12th to the 15th, and December 16th to the 31st. Thank you. Thank you. Council got two items before us. Any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Serena. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. 13 ayes. Excellent next we're gonna go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you number one the committee recommends Approval the award joint purchasing contract for rock salt and both road salt to compass minerals in the amount of 1 million four hundred and thirteen Thousand one hundred and twenty dollars. It's a one-year contract in the funding sources of the Street Division operating budget. I Number two, the committee recommends approval of a water contract for private tree removal loan program to Busy Beaver Tree Care, Citizens Tree Service, and Tree Care Enterprises in the amount of $60,000. The contract duration is one year with two possible one-year extensions and the funding source is the construction services operating budget. 3. The Committee recommends approval of the Water Construction Engineering Agreement for the 2024 Citywide Street Repairs Group 5 and 6 to Willett-Hoffman in the amount not to exceed $36,375.16. The contract duration is through November 29 of this year, and the funding source is a 1% infrastructure sales tax. 4. The Committee recommends approval of a resolution authorizing staff to reimburse Rave and the amount of $125,000 for audio system improvements at the Coronado Theater from the art and culture allocation of the Casino Tax Revenue Plan. 5. The Committee recommends approval of a resolution authorizing funding reimbursements for sidewalks and bus stops on Linden Road in conjunction with the PCI Farm Services per the approved budget surplus plan and the amount of $50,000. Number six the committee recommends approval of the resolution authorizing the acceptance of the DCEO regional site readiness grant application authorization and award acceptance in the amount of 2.5 million dollars The city would would provide matching funds up to six hundred and seven thousand dollars for this project If awarded the funding source would be from the approved 2023 budget surplus plan 7. The Committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the award for the Illinois Medical Respite Capacity Building Initiative from the Illinois Public Health Institute Grant Award in the amount of $100,000. This grant does not require a cost match, and the grant term is from October 28, 2024 through June 30, 2025. The grant will provide funds for the implementation of a medical respite program for homeless individuals with medical needs. I place these seven matters before you. Thank you. Council, seven items before us. Any discussion on those seven items? Alderman Trena. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a question on number four. Do we know the full price of the audio system that we're investing in, hoping to invest in for Coronado? Mr. Cagnone, or I'm sorry, Alderman Tunberg, do you happen to recall that number? Yes, Alderman, yes, 10th Ward Alderman, and I sit on the Rave Board, and they are looking at, I believe, about $400,000, maybe up to $450,000. So this, although not the amount of full cost, but it really did help the amount immensely. Reaching that amount this will again be owned by the city Their their sound system is inferior especially inferior to Hard Rock especially, and this will also be a mobile sound system that as we look to bring Davis Park online with more events, they will be able to transport the sound system from the Coronado down to Davis Park for events and back. It's going to save, it will eventually pay for itself. because we have to, as a city, rent that equipment or then we pass the cost and or we then pass the cost on to the programming, the concert promoters, Bands etc And their costs then go up so we'll be able to maintain our costs But eventually it will and should pay off Thanks, do you know if this is gonna be purchased like this year? You know good question yes, they are actually looking at a Getting this implemented towards I believe the first part of this next year Other questions alderman Beach Thank You Number one Are we buying this salt just for Rockford or is it part of a bulk purchase? arrangement with other municipalities or through the state director Hankins and her Yeah, I believe it's just for us, although we use the state's purchasing power through the state bidding. So have we, well I'm sure that we have, but looked into networking with other cities around Rockford? To maybe get a better price if that's possible. Professor Haggerty? Yes. Alderman Beach, we've participated in the statewide bid for SALT for most of, all but a couple of years that I've been here. The state bid, obviously, we're... Combining with not only the state of Illinois, but also mean as many municipalities across the state to get the most competitive rate We can we found that when we went off state contract It was successful year one, but then the value declined over time. So we believe this is the best Most competitive rate we can achieve for for salt. We do sell salt to I believe to the housing authority to the school district to Rock Valley for use on their own property so they do buy from our supply and we sell that to them Thank you, then then your honor just wanted to say a number 76 When will we know if that grant goes through because I noticed down here it says if this project is awarded so Are they thinking that it might not come up? I That the grant might not come through mr. Gagnoni. Thank your honor. So it is a competitive grant that we're in the process or we have submitted for and So I don't know what the timing in full is going to be from DCEO. We did get communication last week in regards to understanding that it has been submitted and advancing forward. But I would expect first quarter, if not towards the end of first quarter 2025. Thank you very much. Alderman Beach any other questions? All their one makes thank you so much my first question is for item number Four is the arts and culture budget from the casino tax revenue the only Place that this funding could come from could it have come from I guess I can get more specific Could it have come from redevelopment funds or something like that? I? Mr. Cagnone it could have yes The reason why I say that is because it just breaks my heart to know that the very first thing we do takes half of the $250,000 Towards arts and culture because there's so many more art projects and things that I would love to see in this community but my bigger question is is kind of piggybacking off of Alderman Thunberg's comments, how do we know that ASM will kind of contain these costs? Because we talked about doing this so that they would not have to charge so much to those acts that were coming to the Coronado Theater. So how do we know that they will not pass those costs back to us in some way or take the money or Whatever the situation may be. How do we know that they're going to? Lower that cost to those acts and make sure that that money is kind of freedom. Mr. Thank you. Thank you all the woman there's not a requirement within this funding agreement that sets forth the rate that they are can charge vendors or entertainers that utilize it, but that certainly is the intent, and that is also why we have two representatives from city council that participate in their board meetings. This has been an issue that has been taking place for quite some time, uh... that uh... you know the the absence of having the equipment that they're pursuing here has been either uh... cost barrier to attracting certain events to come to the community either on the promoter side or asm side depending on how the deal is structured and when you look at how these deals are structured You know, it's complicated because they're not all the same. Your point in regards to making sure that, which I believe is your point, that, you know, ticket events are affordable in relation to other types of events within our community or affordable for individuals that want to put on events is something that I think the Board is always looking at. So I'm not certain if I answered your question there. Because I'm just curious is there anything in writing that makes it you know for sure that ASM has to lower those prices Yeah, so As I as I stated no There's there's not a condition within the agreement that says that they have to lower the prices. Is that something that we can do? considering It's our funding and i'm not quite certain how we would structure that. Um, Within within an amendment You know, we they certain rave is certainly a partner that of the city. We do have an intergovernmental Agreement and there's certain requirements for reporting that come out of that. I This is in addition to what's covered under the intergovernmental agreement and certainly something that we have done in the past, most recently with the concrete improvements around the facility, the BMO facility that is. But I do think it would be challenging to try to put in a condition of approval that structures their rate. I get that. Okay. I don't have any further questions. Thank you. Other questions all the wrong training. I'm back on number four two I'm struggling with I believe the allotment was like what 250,000 and it's taking it from that fund I want to see them get this but I I don't want to see it come from this fund So I'd like to make a motion to lay this item over. Okay. Thank you. I We have a motion and a second that items automatically been laid over Oh, I'm sorry. We're gonna need to have a majority correct. Thank you. Sorry. So we have a motion. We have a second Is there any discussion on? Laying the item over I'm going alderman Toonberg then alderman Beach alderman Bonnie. Did you have your hand up? Alderman tumor Thank You mayor. I would concur with with administrator Cagnone on a few things on that I This is a, at times, a cost that is passed on as an expense. The promoters, and I wish that ASM was here to get more into the nitty gritty of things, but it is a cost that either we try to pass on to the promoter, to the act, to the expense, that ultimately comes at the expense, And those expenses also, when promoters look at coming to Rockford, they're looking at the profitability of bringing their act to Rockford. If they get stuck with a $16,000 or something expense, they may be looking at other surrounding cities. So that is something that we could then take off of the equation. As far as using it for the arts and culture fund, when you look at the impact that the Coronado has on our arts and culture, arts and culture obviously, as we all know, just doesn't mean going out and painting a mural or doing a painting of something. I mean, it is a broad canvas, pun intended. So, when we look at not just it doesn't come to just concerts necessarily as in acts coming to rockford that this sound system is going to immensely help we're looking at things like the rockford symphony orchestra the rockford dance company plays that that come and go that you know are local or not We look at things like high school graduations. That PA system there is absolutely inadequate. There are reasons why also that we've gotten feedback from promoters, from acts that have come to Rockford that have also reiterated that fact. So this, to me... Would fall under arts and culture more than it would economic development or other forms redevelopment fund I think the Coronado theater with this kind of PA system Would absolutely fall under arts and culture Because it fits that venue. Thank you. Thank you alderman Beach. No, I think this all the work some done. I My comments because we have to rent that if they need it. So that is an direct expense to Great, so I think this makes a whole lot of sense to what we're doing But I concur with what Alderman to my say in regard. Thank you alderman Bonnie. Thank you question first administrator cagnone mentioned the IGA the current IGA is actually expired right It's going month to month right now. Yep, month to month, but expired when? How long ago? Mr. Kagnon? I cannot tell you the exact date, but we've been in discussions for numerous months, so probably over 12 months, and the natures of those conversations was aligning the capital improvement plan of BMO and Coronado with Rave and the Blackhawks. Obviously, you know, Council is aware of the significant investment that's been made in the BMO facility through the $23 million investment, which was a combination of money by RAVE, ASM, the city and the state of Illinois, and then additionally the significant investment that we have ongoing in the Coronado Theater. We're very much trying to line those activities so that when we have a finalized IGA, there's a level of comfort on both parties that the monies that are being provided by the city through the redevelopment fund are there for primarily capital improvements. That's significantly important for the Blackhawks ongoing investment. There's some secondary opportunities for additional capital investment that we have collectively been working on as well, but that's been a big reason why the IGA hasn't advanced to council for consideration. 99% of the agreement is finalized and has been finalized for several months. It was a level of comfort for both parties in regards to what the city's contribution for capital was going to be. How much longer do you think it will be before we see that agreement? If it's only 1% away from done? So I had communication with the RAVE Board on Friday related to that exact question. I believe both parties are ready to move forward, subject to one piece of external funding for capital. Okay. So I mean, in the interest of full disclosure, I am a member of the Executive Committee of the Board of the Friends of the Coronado. I which is not a council appointed a mayor appointed position but You know, I think it's important to remember that as I alderman toonberg was in alderman toonberg suddenly becoming a fan of the arts like my heart is I'm a little worried if I might have to leave again. But um, yeah, I don't know what's going on here, but I mean it it it is the I Is our premier arts venue it is a national it's on the National Register of Historic Places but it's not just any National Register of Historic Places, it is a it is a It's highly regarded among people who are, you know, by the National Registry of Historic Places for the high quality of its restoration. So besides the, you know, to the extent that architecture is also an art, it is a, you know, important. It is a super important venue and probably after this building that we're sitting in was the renovation project that began the 20 year plus catalyst that we've enjoyed going on in downtown Rockford and I don't see why it would be a problem to use the. this revenue source for an asset that is this important to our city that at the time, you know, it was a massive public-private fundraising undertaking. 18 and a half million dollars Raised people in the community in this community many many people donated all kinds of money to that project I'm among I'm sure I'm not the only one in this room who has their name on the glass wall as a donor and I just think that the public support for this venue is so high and I I think with the you know, there's a lot of concern about the future of the Coronado Theatre with the Opening of the of the casino, which is not to say anything negative about the casino But I think that I'd hate to see a layover I hate to see anything that puts a bit a question mark over the Coronado Theatre. So I'd be opposed to the layover Thank you. We have alderwoman meets alderman Rose alderwoman Trina. I I just there are a lot of comments afterwards after speaking and I just want to clarify I am also very much for giving the money to this or to this cause It's a preference of where I would like the funding to come from and so I just felt I wanted to make that clear Because I just don't want any miss Perceptions that I don't agree that this is a needed issue item for the Coronado and that I don't agree that it's going to be cost-saving. I just want to make sure that costs are actually saved and that money is not pocketed, you know, money that we have put forward to assist is not, you know, eventually comes back to us in certain ways. So I I just wanted to clarify that I am for this project if anyone was thinking differently. Thank you. Thank you Yeah, I was just curious since this item came up how much do we have in the redevelopment fund currently? Other Monroe's can't come back to you and get that answer as you go to all the woman Trina. Absolutely other woman Trina I Yeah, definitely just repeating myself. I don't need a history lesson of why the Coronado is important to Rockford. Like, I probably support it more than anyone in this room. I go to a lot of arts in this community, so I don't need an arts lesson. I'm not saying that they don't need the money. I never said I don't want to support them. What I'm saying is... we allotted $250,000 for arts and culture for the city of Rockford. If we give them $125,000, what does that leave? Not very much. So my thought was, I'm looking at wanting to support more art, so let's not deplete the fund with one thing when it can come from another place. Thank you. This is getting a lot of fun. Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to the $250,000 that we suggested for arts and culture from the casino tax, and that's what it was, it was a suggestion. If there was some other project that came forward, we have the ability, I think, on everything we had with respect to the casino funds to actually modify that. That would be a concern with respect to them someone being concerned about where like if the money's going to that Well, I mean we we put money into funds down here every single week Allocate money to different funds. I don't know why it'd be any different For the rave if there's some sort of trust issue We have two people on the board and we've to my knowledge has never been an issue with with that. Just with respect to, although Alderman Toomberg left the room after he was talking about just murals for arts, yes, I mean, the Coronado is used for a litany, performing arts, creative arts, visual arts, all sorts of things. And I guess my point is that if we don't fund this sound system or part of it with the casino tax, when the Rave leadership was here, I was thinking about the fact that we're not going to be able to fund this sound I'm hopeful that this theater does have a long service life ahead of it and some of those shows perhaps move to the to the casino. So I think it's appropriate use for the money coming from the casino to benefit This new sound system which will benefit all the other events In groups that have a chance to use it and like I said again, we own it This is not the same as the BMO with the city of Rockford owns the Coronado So whether we fund it through this way or another way you're just flipping hats around but at the end of the day The burden comes back Somewhat to us. Thank you also just remind everyone we have a motion in a second on a layover So we can actually have the debate on where the funds come from and whatever else you want to happen a little bit But we now have a motion in a second for a layover director Haggerty. Do you have the answer on that? I do. So we are estimated to have a balance at the conclusion of the 2025 budget that's proposed of just over $2 million. We anticipate we'll use the bulk of that, however, to cover an operating deficit in 2026 of about $1.8 million, which leaves $281,000 left at the end of 2026. Balances will, after that point, grow as we retire a significant amount of debt service in the fund. We have Alderman Bonney, then Alderwoman Turena. And again, we are discussing the motion, the second of the layover of the item. Alderman Bonney? Well, at the risk of being accused of giving a lecture on another subject, why are we not prepared to amend this tonight to move this to a different funding source rather than lay it over? I don't have that answer, Alderman. No, you don't. I'm asking the person who accused me of the lecture. All right. All right, we're getting into a whole bunch of fun here. Let's just try to be as, I gotcha. We have a, let's just try to be as civil as we can. And Alderman Tarina, I need to go back. I couldn't hear you. I'd like to retract the motion to lay over. All right, so now we don't have the motion to lay over. Alderman Meeks, would you retract your second? Okay. Okay. Good news is now it's back and you guys can have as much discussion over the item as you'd like That is back. Does anyone have any discussion over any of the items that are before us? Under finance and personnel or in to work. Thank you mayor. I will make this short believe it or not The 250,000 that is in question. We do have the opportunity next year to have another 250,000 due to the Seven million dollar agreement we have with the hard rock is that correct every year right now We'll have 250,000 towards arts and culture unless council decides otherwise all right Thank you any other discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? tuber frost Serena fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey funny 13 eyes on all items except one and that's 12 eyes one of same. Thank you next up We have legislative and lobbying and we'll go to alderman frost. Thank you. There's one matter the committee recommends approval of a resolution Calling for a ceasefire in Palestine the West Bank Lebanon and Israel that we have one item before us is there any discussion? on the one item before us alderman rose and Yeah, I just wanted to just thank the members last week who pushed this item forward. I've been hearing from different individuals throughout the city of Rockford who have experienced losses of their family, losses of their property, losses of their entire lives. I did want to address one of the things that came up. from one of the speakers in regards to the terminology known as genocide. That has come into question and there have been claims made that the use of the term genocide is anti-Semitic. I just would like to make a note on that for the record. Back in February of 2020 there were numerous organizations Over a hundred actually that had written a letter and in support of the use of that term Genocide and I did want to add those to the record. I One is historian Amos Goldberg, who is the Jonah M. Makover Chair in Holocaust Studies at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem that's in Israel. He published an article online which basically accused the State of Israel of committing genocide in Gaza. Raz Sigal is the Program Director of Genocide Studies at Stockton University. who has concretely said that the genocide in Gaza is a textbook case of genocide. Siegel believes that Israeli forces are completing three genocidal acts, including killing, causing serious bodily harm, and measures calculated to bring about the destruction of the group. Ben Kiernan, the director of the Cambodian Genocide Program at Yale University, Professor Barry Trachtenberg, the Rubin Presidential Chair of Jewish History at Wake Forest University. Robert McNeil, the anatomical pathology technologist, and international forensic team at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. He's an ambassador and he is also a part of the studies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina UK network. Professor Damien Short, the co-director of the Human Rights Consortium and a professor of human rights and environmental justice at the School of Advanced Study in the University of London. Taner Akam, the Armenian Genocide Research Program. He heads the Armenian Genocide Research Program at UCLA. Victoria Sanford, PhD, part of Lehman College and the Graduate Center and the affiliated scholar at the Center for the Study of the Holocaust, Genocide, and Crimes Against Humanity at City University of New York. Adam Jones, the professor and political sciences professor at University of British Columbia, who has also written textbooks on genocide, says there is plenty of this demonization and dehumanization on the other sides as well. But whatever peace constituency existed in Israel seems to have vanished. And there is a growing consensus for genocidal war, mass population transfer, and long-term eradication of Palestinian culture and identity. Ernesto Verneja, a professor in political science, professor at the University of Notre Dame, said it could be called a genocide even in a narrow legal sense for several months now. Michael Becker, a professor of international human rights law at Trinity College in Dublin. has made the same claims based on the South African case at the ICJ. And I'll remind people that one of the largest organizations in the world that monitors and came up with the 10 steps of genocide, Genocide Watch, also have made similar claims and called for a ceasefire in February of 2024. I wanted to make those names available for the record because because, you know, when I use the term genocide, I'm not using it as a propaganda tool. I'm using it as a formulation for an argument that historians and genocide studies experts have made clear. And so I think that's important for residents and people to understand that these are things that I'm not saying. It's what the experts are saying. Thank you. Other council members who have comments or discussion on the item before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Thunberg. Frost. No. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. No. Rose. Beach. Barrios. No. Meeks. So typically we use abstentions for a conflict of interest. I think our council rules require vote unless there's a conflict so conflict of interest would be a professional personal Conflict in a matter that's being voted on for like for contracts for example awards of contracts and words of bids things of that nature Director Meyer is it possible for some dicks? Yeah, so under rule three says every member present when a question is taken shall vote unless excused by counsel Unless what unless excused by counsel? Would someone go how would someone go about getting excused by counsel it probably be just a request that she's made We require a council vote other one meets. Would you like us to have a vote on that? Okay, so did what I finish this vote and then come back to that no I'm gonna Pause the boat for a second Director Meyer is that okay if I pause? Yeah, a little uncharted territory here. We've not had it and you should come up with an abstention that won't we finish the vote? And then I'll do a vote Alderman meets subside alderman Bailey's up next Bailey weighs heavily on my heart. This is this is not the forum for this issue I respect all the comments made pros and cons and So, therefore, my vote would be no. This falls in the hands of our congressional leaders, Sorensen and LaHood. Thank you. Bonnie. To the audience, please keep your comments to yourself. Alderman Bonnie. Well, since even though we're not supposed to be talking with rural college... Under order, or in progress... You don't need to keep it going. I would suggest to Alderwoman Meeks that she could simply walk out and not be present for the vote. Just do your vote, Alderman Meeks. No, okay now we'll go back Do I need a motion a second to ask for an abstention? No, okay clerk, could you please call the roll on Council allowing alderwoman Meeks to abstain on item d1 turkey to burn for us Tarina I You're voting on if you're gonna allow all the woman makes the ability to abstain on this vote Frenzy Wilkins Other one makes do you have a reason that you'd like to see because I've make my decisions based on my residents Perspectives and I have equal perspectives being brought to me. So I don't feel comfortable one singular vote That's my reasoning Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Bailey Bonnie no other one makes and now clerk What was a vote the final vote for item d1 two eyes 11 notes? No, I'm sorry for the overall Oh two eyes 11. Oh, thank you. Okay. Next we'll go to new business and we'll go to planning and development all the one Wilkins Thank You Your Honor Item number one is an ordinance approving the funding agreement in the amount of $500,000 annually for two years for the continued capitalization. Do you want me to keep reading? We'll wait until the door is closed. I feel like I've got a lot to say. Okay, thank you. Now we'll go back to new business planning and development. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is an ordinance approving the funding agreement in the amount of $500,000 annually for two years for the continued capitalization and advancement of the community development financial institution in partnership with Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation, Rockford Local Development Corporation, and local financial institutions. The funding source is the Casino Tax Revenue Plan. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item two is an ordinance approving the funding agreement in the amount of $100,000 with Discovery Center Museum Park for HVAC replacement project for the multi-tenant building located at 711 North Main Street. The funding source is the budget surplus plan. Thank you. So we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? So we have two items that are before us, counsel. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. 13 ayes. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee. All in the room, Tarina. Ring, ring. Okay, we have six items as four was laid over I'm number one in ordinance establishing a no parking from 7 a.m. To 5 p.m restriction on the south side of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 100 feet east of 12th Street and Thus repealing the existing parking restriction of no parking from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the south side of 2nd Avenue from 12th Street to 100 feet east of 12th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, an ordinance approving the annexation of 4725 and 47XX West State Street. Number three, an ordinance approving the 2024-2025 contract between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. Number five, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 2975 North Perryville Road. Number six is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 1603 11th Street. Lastly number seven in ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant Laundry facility and video gaming terminals in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 33 33 North Rockton Avenue. Thank you. Thank you So council we have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items? Look, will you please call the roll turkey? Toonberg frost Torino Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, 13 ayes. Thank you. Next we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is an ordinance granting a grant of easement at 115 North Madison Street to Commonwealth Edison for the installation of equipment near to Barry Overhead power lines as part of the Madison Street reconstruction project. Number two is an ordinance bringing the development agreement between the Rockford University, Rockford Promise, and the City of Rockford for a location-based scholarship program. The proposal would allow eligible students graduating from a private or public high school in the City of Rockford and students that live in the City of Rockford that are eligible for the federal Pell Grant and the MAP state grants the ability to earn a bachelor's degree from Rockford University with all tuition paid. And number three is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property located at 605 North Main Street, which is the Armory Building, to Rockbury Arts Council for their bid in the amount of $1,000. I place these three matters before you. Thank you. Three items before us. Any discussion on those three items? Alderman Durkee Thank You your honor. It's just a comment. I didn't comment on but on number three I think that's whoever came up and crafted. This is an outstanding idea. I think it this Campus and so to speak between burpee and discovery and then an art center or a museum or whatever the arts people can figure out Would be a great idea to continue enhance that that area so whoever made this happen I Kudos to them. Thanks. Thank you any other discussion clerk. Could you please call the roll jerky? Toonberg frost Serena fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Barrios Meeks Bailey funny 13 eyes excellent Does someone have a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second any discussion? Okay? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.