I'd ask before we begin with our invocation and with our pledge that we take a moment of silence for Officer Cox. One year ago today marks the date that we lost Officer Cox and I think it's appropriate that we take today to remember and honor Officer Cox. But also I'd ask all citizens to um
 keep in mind our officers and our first responders, all of them that put their lives on the line, but not only them, their family members. I think they often get forgotten about the sacrifices and the dedication that they play a tremendous role in our community. So with that, I'd ask for a moment of silence. Thank you. To begin our evening, we have an invocation from Gary Sherwin of YMCA Bridge Ministries. Let's pray.
 God, we thank you for all the ways that you provide for us. And we thank you for all the ways that you bless us. And I thank you for every person that's here tonight who works for the city to make this city a great city. And I believe it's becoming greater all the time. So we're asking your presence with us tonight as we both remember Officer Cox, but also as we look ahead to the things that need to be settled and decided. We pray for wisdom. We pray for understanding. We pray for grace and mercy. We ask that...
 you would have your will in our community. We pray it in Christ's name. Amen. And before we start with the pledge, we are fortunate this evening to have the fourth graders from St. Rita Girl Scout Troop, 1638, with us. We rehearsed. I know what you mean. I had to answer questions tonight, but I won't admit it. In the name of Jesus Christ, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,
 Alderman Hoffman. Hi. I just want to state while we have the Girl Scouts here that their leader is the person who started the Blue Light Movement in Rolling Green a year ago, and we thank her. Thank you. Thank you. I'll also state if you want really difficult questions, talk to fourth graders. They will not let you off the hook. With that, clerk, could you please call the roll? Jerky. Jerky.
 Logerman? Here. Toomberg? Here. Frost? Here. Thompson-Kelly? Here. Hoffman? Here. Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. McNeely? Here. Shirelli? Here. Ten present. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for City Council meeting held on October 15th. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Aye.
 All right, motion passes. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on October 22, 2018. All those in favor say aye. There's only three aldermen tonight. I'm joking. Those opposed? All right, the motion passes. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the strategic planning session held on October 29, 2018.
 So moved. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Motion passes. Need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on October 29, 2018. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Motion passes. Next up, I'm going to hand it over to Alderman Frost to do a public hearing on the 2019 municipal budget and appropriation ordinance. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I hereby call the public hearing on the proposed 2019 municipal budget and appropriation ordinance to order. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5-8-2-9, a public hearing must be conducted by the city council prior to the adoption of an appropriation ordinance. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on October 24, 2018. That notice informed citizens of Rockford that a copy of the proposed budget and appropriation ordinance
 Could be reviewed in the finance department on the third floor of City Hall at 425 East State Street in Rockford, Illinois from 8 to 5 on weekdays. The proposed budget was also available online on the city's website. Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed appropriation ordinance? If so, please step to the microphone, give us your name, address, and make a statement. No takers? It doesn't look that way. Your Honor, I would ask this public hearing be adjourned. Thank you.
 Next up, we have Alderman Chiarelli, who will hold a public hearing on the pre-annexation agreement of 5430 North Main Street. Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5-11-15.1-3 for the pre-annexation agreement for the following property, 5430 North Main Street. Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the pre-annexation agreement?
 Are there any comments or questions from the general public? Hearing none, Your Honor, this public hearing is closed. Thank you, Alderman Shrelle. Next up, we have three proclamations this evening. The first is Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, and Todd Kisner of the Rock River Homeless Coalition is with us. And, Todd, if you have anyone that you'd like to join you up here, they can do so as well. Come in solo. How are you?
 Good. Thanks for being here. Thanks for all your work.
 Whereas hundreds of individuals in Winnebago County, many of them children and families, experience homelessness each year. And whereas more than 45,000 people in Winnebago County are living in poverty, with many of them having to use the services of a local food pantry or soup kitchen. And whereas a national coalition of homelessness and national student campaign against hunger and homelessness are sponsoring National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week.
 Whereas the purpose of this awareness campaign is to educate the public about the many reasons people are hungry and homeless, and to encourage support of homeless assistance service providers as well as community service opportunities for students and school service organizations.
 Whereas there are many organizations committed to sheltering, providing supportive services, as well as meals and food supplies to the homeless through the efforts of the Rock River Homeless Coalition.
 And whereas the city of Rockford recognizes that hunger and homelessness continues to be a serious problem for many individuals and families in our own community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of November 10th through the 18th of 2018 to be Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. Would you like to share a few words, Todd? Sure.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to thank everybody in the city for their support in this proclamation. And what it does is bring awareness again to a part of our community that sometimes is forgotten. And as we approach this holiday season and the start of Hunger and Homelessness Week, it brings again to mind of these folks that are sometimes forgotten, and hopefully we can make it a better place for them in our community. Thanks.
 Next up, we have a proclamation for Heartland Community Church Month, and I believe we have Pastor Pei, Craig Day, and several others. I encourage anyone who would like to come on up. You're just going to sit out on this one, huh? Really? All right. I would just start and say I think it's pretty fitting that we're celebrating Heartland at this time of year,
 You've done so much in the somewhat short period of time that you've been in Rockford, 20 years. But now that we're moving towards a huge event that I think all my kids will grow up knowing to be always this annual event. But I sincerely, and I think I speak for the council, truly appreciate the work that you've done through Sharefest, but also through Strawn State and so many other probably not as noticeable contributions. So thank you.
 Whereas Heartland Community Church held its first service on September 6, 1998, and is now celebrating its 20th anniversary.
 And whereas God has created in Heartland Community Church a heart and love for this city and its residents and a desire to see everyone experience a rich and deeply satisfying life. And whereas over the past 20 years at Heartland, thousands of lives have been transformed, marriages restored, addictions broken, friendships formed, purpose discovered, and hope renewed because of the grace and love of Jesus at work and those humbly submitted to his leadership.
 And whereas, Heartland was inspired to create Rockford Sharefest to mobilize thousands in our community to bring help and hope through the restoration of 13 public schools, 3 public parks, and downtown Rockford.
 And whereas Heartland is committed to continuing to continue putting its faith into action by loving this community and its people like Jesus does in both word and deed. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of November 2018 to be Heartland Community Church Month. Would you like to share some words? Thank you very much.
 Thank you so much for the recognition. Certainly nothing that we do is for recognition. We just love this city, and that would be my heart and my hope for everybody to know on behalf of so many people who have served on the staff of Heartland Community Church, so many people who serve behind the scenes as elders as they join me here, as ministry team leaders and as volunteers in so many great ministries here.
 Our heart really is just truly to see, as Mayor recognized, to see this city flourish. We love every single resident who lives in the city of Rockford and the greater Rockford region. And our hope is that they would get a taste of that rich and satisfying life that Jesus promises every single person. And they matter so much to us. And so thank you so much.
 for giving us the opportunity to partner with you, the City of Rockford, and with every great organization who makes Rockford as great as it is to make Stroll On State and Rockford Sharefest and so many great things happen in this city and all of the things that you are invested in making this city great as well. Thank you so much. Next we have Jolene Smith and National Hospice and Palliative Care Month. And others, yeah. You doing well? You're all right. Thanks, Lisa.
 Whereas Northern Illinois Hospice has served the Rockford community as a nonprofit hospice since 1979 and was the first hospice provider in our region, as well as one of the first 50 in the entire nation.
 And whereas hospice and palliative care empower people to live life as fully as possible, surrounded by family and loved ones, despite serious and life-limiting illness. And whereas the highest quality of care is delivered by an interdisciplinary team of skilled professionals that include physicians, nurses, social workers, therapists, counselors, health aides, spiritual care providers, and others,
 who make the wishes of each patient and family a priority. And whereas Northern Illinois Hospice has 123 active and trained volunteers who currently contribute more than 6,000 hours of service annually. And whereas hospice and palliative care providers encourage everyone to learn more about options of care and to share their wishes with family, loved ones, and their healthcare professionals.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of November 2018 to be National Hospice and Palliative Care Month. Would you like to share a few words, Lisa? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you to the city for recognizing Northern Illinois Hospice and hospices in our region for the work that we do. We have many friends and neighbors tonight who may be experiencing a life-limiting illness, and their burdens are eased by the work of hospice and palliative care workers. We love what we do, we're honored by what we do, and we're grateful to be here tonight.
 Next up, we have petitions and communications, and we have Planning and Development Committee Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There are two items from planning development under Roman numeral 4A. Number one, memorandum from Wayne Dust, planning contractor, regarding the proposed revolving loan project for Coleman Village cleanup.
 Additional cleanup and temporary structural repairs, this will be referred to Planning and Development. A second memorandum from Mark Williams, who is the Economic Development Manager, regarding a development agreement for Caney Aerospace, KA13 Capital LLC. This will also be referred to Planning and Development.
 Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Next up, we have Code and Regulation Committee with Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Three items this evening. The first is a memorandum from LaFecurie Yvonne, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the third quarter report from July 2018 through September 2018 on liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement.
 The second is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held November 14, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on November 26, 2018.
 the third is a memorandum from nicholas meyer legal director regarding proposed amendments to chapter 11 of the city of rockford code of ordinances all three of those your honor will be referred to the codes and regs committee thank you alderman shirely next up we have finance and personnel committee uh with alderman frost
 thank you first we have a memorandum from sharice hunter director of human services regarding an amendment to the 457 deferred compensation plan next is a memorandum from the keifer vaughn assistant city attorney regarding an extension of the lease agreement between the city of rockford and rock valley college for 424 buckby street for use as a classroom in hands-on manufacturing workforce training classes
 Third is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, City Engineer, regarding a city-state agreement for West State Street Phase 2 right-of-way acquisition. Number four is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the 2019 fee schedule. Number five is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding updates to parking fines. Number six is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, City Engineer, regarding the 2019 through 2023 capital improvements.
 program number seven is a memorandum from george davis executive director for human services
 regarding human resources policy and procedure for hiring key Head Start staff. Number eight is a memorandum from Glenn Trommels, Information Technology Director, regarding intergovernmental agreement with the Winnebago County for the RMS system. And number nine is a memorandum from Glenn Trommels, Information Technology Director, regarding intergovernmental agreement for the ETSB for the CAD system. In all nine of these items, we refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Frost.
 Next up this evening, we are fortunate enough to have Senator Dave Severson as well as our state senator, Steve Stottleman. So if you'd like to join us right up front. Yes, one housekeeping issue I would say is the mics probably work out better if you hold it. They're a little bit hard to hear at home if you don't. Okay.
 But before I turn you over to our chair of the legislative and lobbying, I just want
 From myself, as a newer mayor, you both have been incredibly active and proactive and always communicate back and forth. So I just want to say thank you for your service and a personal thank you from me for being as proactive and open to communication as you have been. So with that, I'll turn it over to Alderman Frost, who is the chair of our Legislative and Lobbying Committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Again, I would like to thank both senators for being here. Last week we had the privilege of having the state representatives here, and this week we have you two here to ask some questions and hear your thoughts on issues affecting our community. With the impending election tomorrow, I know you guys both have tough races, and so we appreciate you taking time out of your schedule. Actually, I'm not on the ballot, so it's been really tough. To be here.
 I believe there was an email disseminated to both senators regarding some issues. And I know that your time is limited and tight tonight. But if we could stick to probably the three most important items that are affecting the city of Rockford in our issues with the legislative and lobbying matters as a committee, and one of them
 Obviously, is is our budget and our pensions and they're all budget related, but our pensions and our increased mandates on funding. The pensions is a great concern of ours. And as you probably are aware that we, the city underwent.
 financial task force last summer and came up with some ideas about trying to save money, but we can't seem to get around the pension issue. We also engaged with a group called the NRN that put together some also some fairly dire numbers facing the city of Rockford over the next few years with respect to our entire budget.
 So that's one topic. The second item would be the LGDF and what's happened to that in the last couple years and how it's affected the city of Rockford. And just, I guess, your ideas going forward, what you think can be done, what should be done, and then I guess what is going to happen if you know it. And lastly, I guess the third issue would be, is maybe something of a revenue source for Rockford is the chance and the opportunity for, if in fact,
 both houses and the governor would sign off on an expansion of casinos, how that would play into effect for the city of Rockford. So with that, I'll turn it over to both of you to just grab the mic and go back and forth, and we can maybe stick, and I'd ask all of them, and if we can stick to these three issues and maybe just address them one at a time, starting with your ideas on pension or pension reform. Okay.
 don't all speak at once first thank you for having us uh follow the house members so we have a chance to clean up the mess that they uh that they've created so um so you want to talk about first on the uh on the pension issue uh uh the pension issue is a problem they're not only facing the state but obviously local governments as well there have been
 There is a current formula in place that, as you know, you have to meet now with what funding level you have to have and certain dates. Having said that, though, there are a number of alternatives that are being looked at.
 I think many of us who have been involved with the pension issue understand that there's nothing magic about being 90 percent funded, that pension can still survive and make it at 80 percent funded.
 Most of us are open to the idea of looking at how can we adjust funding to make it still viable and actually sound, but
 not be at such a strict number, being at 90 percent funding, that a lesser amount can still work. So I think you'll probably see some discussions and some changes coming down this year that allow you a little more flexibility. Having said that, though, there are some other communities around the country that are going
 the state that have not been as near as responsible and their funding levels are significantly lower than yours. And we have to do something to rein in some of the other areas that have not been as responsible.
 I guess I'll just continue with the pension topic. Something clearly needs to be done. One to make sure that some flexibility is offered to local governments to try to balance the budget, but also to ensure that those benefits are available for employers when they finally do retire. So there needs to be continued discussions. Just a couple of reminders. Back in 2011, those hired after 2011 do have greatly reduced benefits in exchange for that.
 municipalities need to be, you know, have fully funded system by, by 2040. Also, we did pass pension reform back in 2013 in the general assembly. Of course that was found unconstitutional. So the idea that you're going to unilaterally adjust benefits or try to change the system, again,
 unilaterally, that's just not realistic anymore. We're going to have to deal with what the Constitution says. But having said that, I mean, I think as Senator Severson, I think there's some things we can do to continue that discussion. You know, one thing that happened in 2013 is that
 The Senate also passed a bill, didn't get a hearing in the House, but the Senate did pass a version where labor organizations, public employee unions were on board. They helped, most of them helped negotiate that settlement. It didn't move forward, but again, that's going to have to be the type of template I think moving forward that we're going to have a state to try to come up with a solution that can benefit everybody. In addition to that, there have been more discussions and proposals regarding a merging of public safety pension benefits.
 I'm certainly open to studying that and seeing what's feasible. Are there ways we can make things more efficient? Can we remove some of the bureaucratic obstacles in how these public safety pensions try to... are implemented? What can we do to increase investment returns? I'm open to studying those types of things. You know, I think there's obviously some negative consequences potentially with merging, you know, these public safety pensions.
 They may not have the type of savings that have been touted and there's a study a couple years ago It said it doesn't achieve the type of savings because the transitional costs and may take at least a decade before Achieving those types of savings that you would start a process in the first place There are also concerns about local control Do you go up low control as a local system by going to a type of a merger type system?
 And would IMRF even take into account some of these other accounts? Some people suggest you merge those two organizations. As you know, IMRF has been pretty well run. It's been stable. People look at that as a gold standard of pension systems, but would they be willing to take into some of these public safety accounts that have not been run so well? And that's the downside of, you know, the IMRF has been working well because municipalities have been held to maintaining those payments.
 would municipalities and cities be willing to maintain instead of just making these minimum payments to keep these account systems to more of a fully funded figure? So there are a lot of questions. A lot of study needs to be done to try to even look whether that would be a good idea. But again, I think it's going to come up for discussion this fall, or excuse me, this spring, as far as whether merging these accounts are good. But I think there are a lot of negative consequences in addition to potential positive.
 Let's study. Let's see what bureaucratic things we can remove or make things more efficient, yet maybe have a hybrid system where we retain local control. But again, I think it is going to be part of the discussion moving forward as far as what we can do to improve the system, to provide some relief for local governments and ensure that the retirement benefits are available.
 Just one more follow-up. I'll just be careful about the discussion about merging together. The ones that really want to merge systems together are the ones that have done a bad job or really underfunded their regions before, and they want to join in communities or funds that have been there much stronger so they can benefit from that. So you need to look at that before you look at merging to see does it make sense
 you gain a little bit on fees, but does it make sense that you have to take on liability for other communities that haven't been as responsible as you have over the years? So just look at that. And, again, I think the Municipal League speaks well for you, and they're very active down there. But, again, they have members that are torn between this issue as well.
 I should also point out I do agree with Senator Severson that I think a big topic will be you know changing the required funding ratio and looking at maybe 80 percent versus 90 percent which prevents some relief it doesn't solve your problem but it obviously kicks the can down the road but it would provide some relief and again um extending the payment periods another 10 years potentially I think those will be up for discussion. Mayor Redekopan Thank you Alderman Thompson-Keller. Would the two of you support legislation giving more local control over the pension system?
 Yeah, I think the concern is with the merger type system, you would try to take away that local control. And I think that's one of the negatives if you do go to some type of a merging system. So I guess it depends specifically what you're looking for local control as far as specific types of provisions.
 I think part of the reason we have some stricter rules in place is not because of communities like Rockford, but there are a lot of irresponsible communities. And so by having set rules in place, the goal is to try to make sure that other municipalities around the state are being responsible and following those laws. So if we give them too much authority,
 is it going to end up being abused. So it's trying to find that balance where it's a problem. But here's one that you came to us with the issue, can we adjust the length of it and can we adjust the payment funding level? And I think the legislature are open to that, and I think you'll have a compromise agreement that's met between the municipalities and the legislature this year.
 Only thing I'd add before the next question is,
 I don't, to be honest, worry about you two. I worry if other legislators truly understand the issue and also the urgency of the issue. I mean, we hear often of Harvey. You know, 25,200 people live in Harvey. But we don't hear enough about Peoria, one of the largest cities in the state that's starting either this year or next year, 100% of their property taxes and dollars that they bring in are going to go solely to pensions.
 You look at the city of Rockford, who, as you stated, and long before I got here and long before most of the people on this horseshoe have been here and many who have been here, we've been very diligent with our payments.
 But you look at 2013, we spent $8 million. 2019, we're going to spend over $18 million. 2035, not that far down the road, we're going to spend over $48 million, and we bring in $48 million. I just worry that the...
 rest of the legislature does not understand the urgency because we're talking about much smaller municipalities like Harvey so much and don't understand the Tremendous negative impact it's going to have not only on individuals citizens who are paying higher property taxes because we can't make our pension payments But huge municipalities that are going to have devastating impacts on the collective state if we don't move and move quickly. I
 I think it just, you know, every lawmaker has mayors, city councils in the district. So, I mean, as this problem continues to evolve, I think we'll become more of a priority as far as trying to see what we can do legislatively. And I may not be aware of it now, but I think that problem is going to continue to grow.
 I think those legislators that are involved or understand the finances, they're the ones who are taking the lead on those issues. So I think it will be there. But I think the point you make is very well, and that's why I raised the concern about merging with some of these other communities that have not been responsible like you have. And so we'll see what comes out of it. I'm pretty confident, though, that –
 this coming spring you'll see some legislation that's going to give you some more flexibility. And maybe what we'll do is allow some of those communities that have been doing the right thing to have more flexibility and some of those that haven't, we may have keep them at a higher standard until they can get to a safe funding level. Great point. Thank you. Sorry, Alderman Frost. Sure. Just to follow up.
 In addition to our efforts working with the IML, what do you two think we as a city or we as a city council can do to keep pension reform as a top priority in Springfield, if anything? I just think it's going to be there. I mean, whatever you can do to lobby and to get the word out, whether it's the city of Rockford or other municipalities across the state, IML does a great job of making sure that those interests are represented in Springfield, but –
 as you deal with budget situations every year what you're going to be dealing with the next couple years it's just a matter of letting people be aware of it so i think the ml does a good job of making sure from a springfield standpoint we're aware what's going on but it's a matter of just demanding solutions thank you with respect to the second topic the lgdf you are obviously both aware of the of the cuts that have been made statewide and how it's dramatically affected the city of
 If you could just discuss with us what you think the state legislature intends to do to restore, if they are, the level of funding to help reduce our burden. It was my hope last year that we were going to be able to phase it out, the reduction. Obviously, it didn't happen.
 you know, in the middle of the budget crisis where $16 billion in debt, backlog of bills, was at that level, and so everybody needed a sacrifice at some point to try to come up with the budget solution. Obviously, that was a hard hit for the city of Rockford and many other municipalities as well, and I sympathize with that. So I was hoping last year, as we, you know, put it,
 the budget together for 2019 we're able to we'd be able to phase that out didn't quite get there you know we're still probably have about eight billion dollars in in on backlog of bills so we're able to cut that in half as far as the reduction to the to the fund and i think we've reduced administrative fee from two percent to 1.5 as well so it was another break as far as what you had dealt with but um my hope is and maybe dave's got different thoughts but i know i'm talking to a lot of people regarding uh you know those involved in the budgets and rank and file lawmakers that
 IT'S MY HOPE THAT WE CAN FINALLY PHASE THAT OUT COME THIS NEXT BUDGET. OF COURSE, IT DEPENDS ON THE REVENUE, WHERE THE ECONOMY AND SOME OF THE OTHER MOVING PARTS WHEN PUTTING THE BUDGET TOGETHER, BUT I'M HOPEFUL THAT WE CAN FINALLY RETURN THAT BACK TO NORMAL. BUT, YOU KNOW, THE OTHER SIDE OF THE PRESSURE IS WE SEE A LOT OF GROUPS, YOU KNOW, A LOT
 Even administrative officials wanted a bigger cut from LGDF and even talked about, remember, one so-called taxpayer-friendly group suggested that we should remove it entirely, which is not realistic. Can you imagine what would happen to property taxes if that was the case? But it's my intent and my hope, and I think a lot of other lawmakers, to eventually, hopefully this year, that we can resolve that cut or absolve that cut completely. Thank you.
 Yeah, I would agree. So two years ago the agreement was to take the 10% reduction. Then in turn, they would, instead of delaying making the payments to you, they would make the payments right away. And so while there was a cut, the timing of the money you were able to get much quicker.
 This year, as the Senator mentioned, when we put together the bipartisan budget, the agreement was to reduce that to 5 percent and also do the expedited payments to the municipalities. So that was reduced to 5 percent with the discussion that the hope is this year that they will get back to – hopefully get back to the zero. And as you mentioned,
 They did reduce also the fee that you paid, that the state charges you to collect all your other fees for you. That was reduced this current year as well. So we'll see what happens this year. It's about a $66 million statewide cost for that 5%.
 with the frankly with the growth in the economy this current year, revenues are coming in better than we had originally budgeted for. So I think the ability to find that 66 million is pretty good. So half of it got back this year and we'll see what happens this spring. Any other questions from the audience? Okay.
 uh lastly uh if you would both uh share your thoughts on the impact uh of any uh projected impact of the expansion of gaming uh as how it relates to to our region here with with um a city rockford being included on the last several uh i guess amendments or or gaming bills that would give us a chance to have a land-based casino well that's
 The good news is that when it comes to gaming, Steve and I are the top two negotiators in the Senate. So the good news is we each represent – he represents Democrats, I represent Republicans, and so we're the ones working on the legislation. So the good news is that Rockford will continue to be in the forefront.
 We have, as you know, we've passed this legislation a couple of times. The last two years we've passed it out of the Senate. It's been held up in the House.
 There is emergency. We've talked about this before, that we have five states around us that have declared war on Illinois, and they're building casinos all around us in these other states. Last year, about $1.5 billion left Illinois just to go to those casinos in the five surrounding states. It's important that we reciprocate, and we were able to get these casinos going in Illinois,
 in those communities that we've negotiated. And so, especially now with the urgency of what potentially could happen in Beloit, that is a significant concern that if that gets approved,
 approved before we get something approved that it's going to be a problem that would be the largest casino in the Midwest it will be just north of just north of us and Indian casinos don't pay taxes so they can pay larger purses they can subsidize their hotels their water parks It could be a significant blow to us. So the urgency I think is important to get done the
 we're not sure why the house delayed things there were some concerns with chicago with the mayor of chicago
 Clearly, there's going to be a new mayor in Chicago this spring, and of the candidates that are talking about running in Chicago, there seems to be a much more bigger push to get Chicago actively involved in that. So I think that's going to be another positive issue with that. The other – the battle that was going on between the Rosemont Casino and Arlington has just lessened because those two have just merged.
 So now we have an interesting marriage of two different strategies, which that will help, I think, expedite it. And then Steve can talk a little bit, too, about the new – the ruling regarding sports betting and how that plays into all this as well.
 So a lot of things happening. We wish it could be done sooner. We wish it could get done in this veto session. But I think realistically it will be looked at next, this coming spring, and we'll try it again. But the good news is that Rockford is going to be as protected. Rockford is part of it. And because of the positions that Steve and I are in, you have a –
 the strongest voice of any community at the table with these negotiations. It has been elusive and a lot of people are skeptical it will ever happen, but I am confident that in the next six months in the spring session we will have a gaming bill. And I think the biggest reason why is what Senator Severson mentioned. There was a Supreme Court ruling that allows states to implement sports betting.
 And why does that matter? What happens is that you have casinos, you have racetracks, you have different gaming industry players that have held up the bill. They fought it. You know, casinos don't want more casinos in the state. You have people that have actively opposed gaming expansion. But with the state, and hopefully Illinois included, of allowing sports betting and potentially iGaming and fantasy sports as well.
 Everybody wants a piece of that. Everybody wants a piece of the action. So you have casinos that want sports betting, so what that allows legislatively is a more comprehensive package. You bring everybody to the table, no pun intended, but you bring people to the table, they each want some of that. So you have leverage to get people to agree to stop blocking the game expansion, which has been incredibly difficult politically the past couple years as you know.
 With sports betting, I think we can craft a deal that hopefully we have more everybody at the table who's winning versus trying to fight the project. It's an incredibly difficult conversation.
 piece of legislation to pass, but with this comprehensive package, I think you can get more people on board. So that's why I'm optimistic. I think things can move. Then obviously we have the ongoing motivation of money. Obviously it's probably not going to bring as much in as it did maybe five, ten years ago, but we're still looking at half a billion to a billion dollars in state revenue. In this state we need capital projects.
 BILL. WE HAVE HUGE INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS ACROSS THE STATE. I THINK THAT'S A GOOD WAY TO FIND A FUNDING SOURCE FOR SOME TYPE OF CAPITAL PROJECT ACROSS THE STATE, CAPITAL PLAN. SO MONEY WILL ALWAYS BE THAT MOTIVATION TO TRY TO GET SOMETHING PASSED OVER THE NEXT SIX MONTHS. BUT, AGAIN, WITH THE DYNAMICS CHANGING, WITH SPORTS BETTING, I THINK WE CAN GET SOMETHING PUT TOGETHER. OF COURSE, THE WILD CARD IS CHICAGO, AS DAVE MENTIONED. WE DON'T KNOW WHO THE MAYOR IS GOING TO BE YET. IT'S KIND OF INTERESTING, LAST WEEK'S SESSION, THEY SUDDENLY OPPOSED THE
 game and expansion, even though it was supposed to be a casino in Chicago. But we'll see what the new mayor of Chicago wants, and that may help dictate what exactly happens this spring. But again, they have financial needs as well. So I think because of the different dynamics, I think it's a good opportunity. I know you've heard that before, but something can happen this legislative session.
 Can I just ask a follow-up? And I'm sorry for a little bit of a naive question when it comes to timing of things. Do you see that Chicago mayor's race potentially delaying any potential votes, or would the timing of that race and a potential vote not coincide?
 It probably means there won't be a vote in this fall veto session, but I think it'll still be all right in spring. The election's not until, I think, April, but we wouldn't finalize a bill until probably end of April anyways. But I think it'll become a big part of that mayor's race because then those candidates will have to be weighing in what they want.
 For the city of Chicago, it's important. It would mean a couple thousand jobs. It would mean a lot of tourism. It means more conventions for them. And every night, if you're in Chicago, every night buses are going up and down Michigan Avenue, picking up tourists and taking them to Indiana to the casino. That's money that's just leaving Illinois. And so Chicago needs it. And the better Chicago does, it means the less
 The state has to support them. That means there's more money that can come to our communities. So we benefit when Chicago does better as well. So it looks like some of the frontrunners that are looking at running for the mayor's race in Chicago are pretty keen on the idea of,
 pushing gaming so I I think it's a positive thing that will help us and I think the mayor's race will be over before there's a final vote on the bill
 All the proposed locations as well are on border communities, Rockford, Danville, Chicago. And I think there's a growing realization that we're losing money. Bus loads going to Wisconsin, Indiana, and Iowa. We're paying for those schools. We're paying for those roads. And I think there's a realization that has come to an end. And the sooner we pass this game in expansion, the more money we'll be able to keep for our schools and keep for our operations here in Illinois. Thank you.
 You hit an interesting point about the other players and whether it's forces. I know here in Rockford we've seen a great expansion and growth. I know it doesn't occur in every municipality or community, but with video gaming. How does the fact that video gaming's been around a few years and bringing in money to communities in the state, how does their position affect
 if at all, or is it just another player with the expansion of an actual land-based casino? Well, I think clearly if there is a casino in Rockford, the revenues that maybe were predicted 10 years ago, that's probably going to be considerably less. People have another option. And we've seen the proliferation, obviously, in Rockford and other places across state. It's been a decent moneymaker.
 While I support a casino in Rockford and the additional money will bring millions of dollars, I don't think it's going to bring nearly what it was predicted to do 10 years ago. So I don't think it eliminates the need, but I think clearly it will dampen the revenue expectations of what a land-based casino would bring to Rockford. It is interesting. Video gaming now is bringing in more money into the state than are the casinos. Right.
 But it's also interesting, though, that there are different people that are using video gaming than necessarily going to the casinos. And that's why if you look at communities like Elgin and Joliet and Aurora, video gaming is still doing well in those areas. But there would be some reduction. It is an interesting battle in Springfield because video gaming, some of the groups don't like casinos. But...
 what's happened over the last two years is the casinos have been buying up most of video gaming and so about a third of all the
 Video gaming in Illinois now is owned by casinos. They're buying them up. So that puts that organization, the video gaming group, at odds with themselves with this, which in essence just lessens their ability to stop a casino bill from going. So that's a positive thing for us as well. But as Steve mentioned, for Rockford, it's still going to be,
 You still have millions of dollars, but you'd see a little bit, a little loss from video gaming, and you wouldn't see as much on the casino.
 The timing is the bigger thing. Your bigger fear is what Beloit would do and the magnitude of what that could do if that got up and running. Because even if we had a casino and they had one, you're going to still lose a lot of migration up there because of the size and the purses and things that are going on. The key is for us to be approved first. Then we legally have standing, and we can oppose that casino in...
 So as a quick background, the Indian Casino has to be approved first by the Federal Bureau of Indian Affairs before it can go to Wisconsin for them to approve it. Because there's no casino within 50 miles of the Indian Casino,
 We have no standing. We can't go to Washington and object to the Bloyd Casino because we have no standing. If we had a casino, then we have standing, and we can go out there and raise the concern of what economically it would do to hurt Illinois. We'd have a case to make. That's why the timing of getting ours done and approved was—
 I think is important. If we can get that done before theirs gets approved, we have a chance to slow down or stop or scale back the magnitude of what the Beloit Casino could be. Are there any other questions? Alderman Shirelli.
 In the casino bill, is there anything tied to the video gaming, the existing video gaming legislation that would be wrapped up into one bill? Is there any changes that could come to the video gaming legislation? There's five machines now. Could it turn into six machines or more machines or less machines? Yeah, and that's always a battle too. And, Stephen, we've been through –
 numerous hearings on what they want and Part of the final bill that we came up with It did it did allow for the video gaming not to have additional machines, but allowed them to have different Additional games right now. We limit what games you can have on those machines under this legislation We allowed for some additional games. We also allowed for a larger larger betting
 um which uh for the city of rockford would mean about a 20 increase in revenue off of your current existing because of the larger bets that would be allowed to make it would be about a 20 revenue increase for the city based on those changes but i don't see increased number of games uh
 in this bill, at least in the version we passed. And the state may take a higher percentage from the video gaming terminals as well. I mean, there was a 5% increase in the last proposal. Now, whether that sticks around for whatever happens in spring, who knows, but I think that could be a likely possibility. But, yeah, it's a difficult...
 bill and people are always angling to uh cut you know get the margins in their favor so you know will it look like what it does right now probably not but um it's it's an amazing political battle as far as what the final provisions are but um we'll see i just used to follow up sure so if the casino bill fails would there be any proposed changes to the the video gaming legislation
 Or would that just stay the status quo and life goes on as it is? Yeah, I think that's part of the problem, that you have these giant animals out there all fighting for their share, and if one doesn't get it, it will probably hold up and stop. Because we've tried that the last couple of years. There's been individual, whether video gaming or sports betting or...
 uh... fantasy betting those things have gotten held up because they all want agreements with everybody so i think it really probably needs to be a comprehensive
 Bill for it to pass that's how you can get everybody to agree to something if they can get something with our sports betting their Fantasy sports, they'll maybe drop their opposition to the casino expansion and that's the only way politically this thing's gonna pass It's a large bill But as if you piecemeal it it's much more difficult Politically as we found the past year or two that was my concern if that casino bill fails Is there anything that we can do is this city and the City Council to enhance our position with the video gaming? Because we're we're not home rule at this current time. I
 I don't know if there will be any at this point. If everything else falls apart, then you come back and look at some things. But Steve mentioned I'm pretty confident that this is going to be done not only because the revenue is necessary, but as you mentioned, the revenue from this goes to capital and a lot of projects, in fact, are funded.
 are scheduled for Rockford area are being held up until this passes because of the revenue that's needed for that. There's not a lot of interest in raising more taxes in Springfield this year. The gaming bill would generate
 as you said, $500 million to a billion dollars a year, that's enough to generate close to $10 billion worth of capital projects without having to raise other taxes. So there's a lot of urgency to get this thing done. Thank you, Senators. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and welcome, Senators. Thank you for coming. Do we know who the investors are, who the owners of the casino for,
 Rockford would be? Not at this point. I mean, first we need legislation that would enable a casino, then we have to go up to the city council to try to figure out an operator and who may be involved. And those are decisions that would be down the road. And ultimately the gaming, so an application would be submitted to the gaming board, and the gaming board is the one who selects who would get the –
 Who would get that license and so it's nothing that we do in legislation It's that independent gaming board that they would make that decision but clearly what the what the city What the city wants would be something that the gaming board would take into consideration that you would have you would have standing to raise a
 the issues or concerns that you want. And those who are vying for that license would certainly come to the city and say, here's the things that we would like to do, here's what the numbers are. But it's important to point out, as Steve mentioned earlier, these are not going to generate the kind of revenue they did in the past, and so when you're asking them to come up with a – to pay the state, you know, $100 million or $200 million licensing fee,
 The margins are going to be very slim, especially if Beloit was going to be concerned. But in the end, nothing that we're doing, legislation, has nothing to do with selecting vendors or anything like that. That's totally done by the independently appointed gaming board. And we can't, we're not allowed to work that board ourselves on this issue.
 independently appointed by whom was pointed by the governor and approved by the Senate and so no no the appointments last I think for four years three years or four years that the appointments are made for
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly. I have a couple of questions. Thank you. You mentioned – the two of you mentioned the 5 percent plus the fees, but you didn't give a percentage or amount of the fees. Is this the total fees will be eliminated through the – to the municipalities?
 kind of the LGDF from 10 to 5% this year. Right. Yeah, my hope is it will be 0%. There will not be any reduction in the fund with the next budget cycle. And there was an administrative fee that was reduced also, so obviously hopefully administrative fee would go away as well. Okay.
 MR. Completely. MR. Well, the admin fee, I think, depending which one now, there's one admin fee that the State has always charged you the 2 percent for them to collect all your local taxes for you, and then send that money back to you. They reduced that to, I think, one and three quarters this year. That's been reduced. I don't see that being reduced any.
 any further, not if they're going to eliminate the 5%. They're still going to charge a management fee to collect your taxes for you. Okay. I just wanted to make that clear because I knew there was a fee involved. And my second part is...
 Capital, and I apologize, Mr. Chairman, that this is not on our list, but they touched on capital projects that is not funded that's supposed to take place in this community. Where do you stand as far as set the casino aside and let's deal with capital projects and the capital projects that you support coming back to this community?
 Well, the big capital project was an appropriation in the issuer's budget for the Rockford Airport. Obviously, money is still owed to the airport for its maintenance hangar that it constructed and the state didn't follow through with the $15 million because of the budget crisis and the grant was frozen. Even though it was in the appropriation, we're still trying to work with the administration and to get that appropriation through.
 Obviously, there are a lot of capital requests that were made, and obviously, because the amount of money coming in from some of the gaming interests didn't quite match it, we have a longer list of money available. So whether a new capital bill will address that, some of the things that were requested but not actually distributed, we'll find out. But until we find a funding source, it's going to continue to be a problem as far as trying to address capital needs here and throughout the state.
 Yeah, so it was 2009 that we passed the last capital plan. Right. And the good news is, Winnebago County came in second with the amount of, we always talk about we don't get our share back. Winnebago County came in second only to Cook County in the amount of revenue that we were able to bring back as part of that capital plan.
 That capital plan was funded, a combination of things, the video gaming and some license plate changes as well. The problem was some of those bonds were issued and the project started to go. And if you remember back then, Quinn vetoed that or stopped the video gaming because of the issue over he didn't want to have VFWs to have VFWs.
 video gaming. And so that delayed for a whole year revenue coming in. So it took a while to get caught up. The second thing is they never anticipated that Chicago would go dry and that they would not have...
 any video gaming or casino. And so that was a lot of revenue that was lost. So, as Steve mentioned, we're not taking in the kind of revenue that was needed to pay for the $15 billion bonding plan. So there's a little over $1 billion left from the 2009 capital plan,
 over a billion dollars that needs to be bonded. If this gaming bill passes, that gets done. Now that's, there's a number of projects for Rockford. The Park District has projects. There's some projects for the Charter Schools have some. There's a couple of road projects.
 So there's still millions of dollars besides the airport money that's all tied up in that. So if we pass the gaming bill, then a lot of these other projects that are on the list will be done, plus there could be some new ones. Well, will you be bringing that information and your priorities back to our legislative and lobbying and administration, letting them know what your priorities and for you to know what our priorities are in this community? Sure.
 If a new – if there's a new capital plan, we'll certainly be sitting down and going over that. Some of these projects were already promised and line-item in there for 2009. They have to be completed.
 Some of those may not need to be done anymore and those dollars can be reassigned. And what has happened in the past, Steve and I worked together on those lists and on any new capital plan that comes up. And we've always worked with the locals to come up with that list and then work together on those projects.
 Thank you. There are a number of projects like a park district and public museum grants that they're still trying to get in addition to the Rockford Airport. We'll hopefully work on...
 VETO SESSION TO CONTINUE THAT APPROPRIATION BECAUSE THAT WAS ACTUALLY LINE ITEMS IN THIS YEAR'S BUDGET. SO A LOT OF THE CAPITAL PROJECTS THAT WERE STUCK IN THE PIPELINE HOPEFULLY WILL BE RESOLVED AND MOVING FORWARD AFTER THE FALL VETO SESSION. BUT AS POINTED OUT BY SENATOR SIEVERSEN, IF WE HAVE A WHOLE OTHER CAPITAL PLAN, THAT WILL OPEN UP DISCUSSIONS AS FAR AS WHAT THE NEEDS ARE AND OBVIOUSLY WE'LL BE LOOKING FOR INPUT FROM DIFFERENT GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS AS FAR AS WHAT THEY SEE AS PRIORITIES.
 Thank you, and I'd like to thank you both for taking the time out of your schedules to come down here. And it's an honor to have two senators representing Rockford in a bipartisan way. I really mean that. You guys are doing a great job, I think, of working together and always in your efforts to put Rockford first. We as a council appreciate that. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you everybody, thanks.
 Next up we have public speakers and I would remind our public speakers that they have three minutes to speak and there are microphones at each end of the chambers. The first public speaker we have this evening is Prophet Yusef. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms the ninth chapter the 16th verse It says the Lord is known by his justice. What I want to speak about tonight the Democrat party future lives and speaking from the moral center of
 The media is now reporting on the debate among Democrats and activists about what the party should stand for and how it will win elections. Established Democrats are said to fear that the populist reform energy represented by Bernie Sanders and rising star Alexandra Cortez, who upset Representative Joe Crowley, the fourth-ranking Democrat in the House and a New York City primary, will turn off the moderate, upscale white suburban Republicans.
 who they believe are appalled by Trump and are the key to taking back the Congress. A Wall Street-funded group known as the Third Way, which might better be known as the Wrong Way, since it has been wrong about every major issue facing the country over the last five years. Champlain slashes corporate trade deals, the deregulation of Wall Street, and the Iraq War among other calamities, even convening a small gathering.
 co-host by a billionaire, real estate developer, mapped out how to counter what the media described as the left. The very terms of this debate are misleading. Ideas that have broad public support, such as tuition-free college, are labeled left. Ideas that offend philosophical conservatives, such as substitute big oil companies, are
 as on the right, championed by Republicans. We'll be wiser to focus on common sense and basic principle. When the Reverend Martin Luther King spoke forcefully against what he called the triple evils, racism, economic exploitation, and military, he was criticized for getting out of his lane by talking about economic inequality and against the Vietnam War.
 He responded, I'm against segregation at lunch counter, and I'm not going to segregate my moral concerns. Cowardice, he taught us, asks the question, is it safe? Exponent asks, is it politics? Vanity asks, is it popular? Conscious asks, is it right? We are a nation faced with great danger.
 inequality has reached new extremes and even with the economy near full employment, working people still struggle simply to stay afloat. Big money corrupts our politics and distorts our government. We are mired in wars without an end. Seventeen years in Afghanistan and County and without victory or a sense, we have a president who believes he profits politically by spreading racial division, appealing to our fears rather than our hopes.
 This is the time for citizens, for true leaders, to move not left or right, to the expo or the caution, but to the moral center. Affordable health care for all isn't left or right. It is a moral center. Jobs that pay a living wage, affordable housing, public education, college without debt, clean water and air, actions to address catastrophic climate change that literally may endanger the world. These are not ideas of the right or left. They are the moral center.
 In this time of trouble, I believe that Americans in large numbers are looking for leaders who will embrace the moral center, not the expert, the safe or the fashionable. They are looking for champions who will represent them. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. Next public speaker we have is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening. Come on.
 Good evening Mayor McNamara, all the residents and citizens of Rockville, Illinois. It's human nature to hide our sins or overlook our mistakes, but it's hard to learn from a mistake if you don't acknowledge making it. And what good is a mistake if you don't teach you something?
 Paul, the polls show by the race for governor, senator, and representative are dead heat. That's why Donald Trump is unleashing racist hatred in a desperate and despicable campaign to save the Republicans. Our blue wave can still elect Democrats all across the country, but we need to turn out every possible Democratic vote. If you have any problem voting, call 866-866-8666.
 687-8683 from your polling place to get immediate help so you can vote as properly cast and counted this tuesday is election day however today i want to talk about domestic violence and we in the african-american community have a problem with reporting domestic violence rockford uh
 WREEX across the state line, domestic violence is affecting our neighborhood, co-workers, friends, and family members. It happens across our community and every community in social, economic class, said Jennifer, manager of the Mayor's Office of Domestic Violence,
 and human trafficking. The reason why we don't trust the mayor's office on domestic violence, the main reason is DCSF. Once they get in your life, it's hard as hell to get them out. They are our modern day slave masters. On Thursday night, Miracle called me over seven times to come and get her.
 I did not until Friday morning the day DCF placed her in a foster home. I have not stopped crying every day for my goddaughter. DCSF got Miracle and placed her in a stranger home. They refused to give Miracle to Percy. I'm so upset with Percy's sister, Bobby Williams. A crackhead and heroin addict was too high, and Miracle, at six years old, went to get help. Miracle was staying with Bobby Williams when DCSF came into her crack house.
 Then, when the all white people in the courtroom, DCF workers, lawyers and judges decided that Miracle would stay with some strange people that she do not know instead of going back to Pershing. They did everything they could to try to keep me out of the picture. We are not white. How can a white person tell us how to live when they have not walked a mile in our shoes?
 Today they have given slavery a new name under the cover of the New Jail Code Law or DCSF. Minority's biggest fear and hate is not the police, but DCSF. The latter stands for Destroyers of Families. They do not help bring families back together. They spend most of their time treating family members like we are their property or animal. This is why one of the main reasons family members do not return
 domestic violence. This month alone I had a few families tell me about their relationship with DCSF and it's a nightmare. Right now I'm calling out all families that have a problem with DCSF, the destroyers of families. To call and text me or email me. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Brantley. Our next public speaker this evening is Brandy Gardner.
 I asked God for a word today and he said he would lead me. My name is Brandy. The Holy Spirit led me to Luke 10, 1 through 12. My first time coming here and I read you guys the whole passage. Later I realized that I was only supposed to read three sentences and tell you guys three things. One, may this house have peace.
 2. Send out workers into your harvest. 3. The kingdom of God has come near. There is a motivational event, I'm switching topics, coming up on the 15th at the Nordloff Center. It's from 6 to 8 p.m. Thursday and also Saturday the 17th from 12 to 2.
 There will be nationwide motivational speakers, also organizations, comedians, etc. One reason why I asked you guys to attend is because my performing arts group will be performing there and they will be doing a presentation. For example, they will be acting like you guys.
 There will be a state representative, for example, a child playing a state representative, and they will also be discussing the roles and duties of that particular person they're playing, and your presence would show as support, would maybe recognize their support.
 If you don't want to come, please reach out to me with any ideas. I would love to hear. I'm not really into politics that much, but I am here, and the Lord does want me to be here. So that's something that will encourage the community to vote. Also, the roles that they will play will be encouraging people to vote and also talking about not only the duties of you guys, but...
 how it relates to the community. Thank you so much for this opportunity. Next up this evening, we have Alderman Joe Shirelli for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. restriction on both sides of Sablewood Drive from Halstead Road south to the end of Sablewood Drive.
 Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of a no parking bus stop parking restriction on the south side of Benton Street from Summit Street to 215 feet east of Summit Street.
 Number three, the committee recommends reversing the traffic commission's recommendation of no action for the request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of 6th Street and 23rd Avenue, thus repealing the existing one-way stop at the intersection of 6th Street and 23rd Avenue.
 Number four the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation for no action on the request to establish 30 miles an hour speed limit on Lyford Road from State Street Royal Oaks number five the committee recommends reversing the zoning Board of Appeals denial for the variation to allow chain-link fence material in the front yards along Camlin Avenue and Logan Street and our to zoning district at 821 Camlin Avenue and
 Subject to conditions number six is 6677 East Riverside Boulevard. The committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals denial of a variation to eliminate the brick stone base requirement for a free standing sign. The committee recommends reversing the zoning board of appeals denial of the following and amending and approving.
 A variation to increase the height for a freestanding business sign from 8 feet to 16 feet 2 inches and a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage for a freestanding site from 64 square feet to 120 square feet.
 The committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals denial of a variation to increase the height for the directional sign from six feet to seven feet two inches for two directional signs. A variation to increase the height for the directional sign from six feet to six feet ten inches.
 and a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage for three directional signs from 10 square feet to 23.79 square feet in a c3 commercial zoning district at 6677 east riverside boulevard subject to conditions number seven the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a pre-annexation agreement and zoning map amendment for county ag zoning district to
 IL light industrial zoning district and be a special use permit for a freestanding solar energy generating facility in an I1 light industrial zoning district at 5430 North Main Street subject to conditions. Number eight, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit for a 1370 square foot addition to the east side of the convenience store.
 at 2914 West State Street, subject to conditions. Number nine, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for a modification of existing liquor license.
 for 1,370 square feet addition to the convenience store at 2914 West State Street, subject to conditions. Number 10, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store, and the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 1909 11th Street.
 Subject to conditions number 11 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store at 425 15th Avenue subject to conditions and The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances for all those items your honor place those 11 items up for passage It's any alderman want alderman Shirely to repeat any of the items you just read. I
 Alderman Beach? You guys are all asleep or something. All right. So we have 11 items before us. Is there any discussion on the 11 items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Nones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 items one two three four five six seven eight ten eyes nine and ten or nine eyes one no item eleven is ten eyes excellent all the items pass alderman frost for finance and personnel thank you number one the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of seven million thirteen thousand uh 813.23 has approved the finance and personnel committee meeting on october 22nd 2018
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the City of Rockford vehicle replacement policy. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the parking lot lease agreement between the City of Rockford and First Evangelical Lutheran Church. The agreement would allow the church to lease 90 parking spaces as designated by the church on the property described. For the term of this lease, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of a lease agreement for purchase of a computer aid design and records management system CAD slash RMS system for 911 in police department with PNC equipment finance.
 At a lease rate of 3.81%, the annual payment would be $1,027,775.75 for a term of five years. The total amount financed is $4.6 million. The funding sources is a 911 and police department budget for 2019. The legal department shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 number five the committee recommends approval of a lease agreement for three fire trucks with pnc equipment finance with a lease rate of 4.1 percent for three fire aerial trucks the annual payments will be 479 528.57 for a term of eight years the total amount financed is three million two hundred and six thousand dollars
 the funding source is the 2019 fire department budget the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number six the committee recommends approval of the 2018
 Proposed property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of $55,567,606 for the levies in the corporate, public protection, police pension, school crossing guards, fire protection, fire maintenance of building, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers compensation and auditing funds.
 The final city levy amount will be approximately $48,187,606. The League of Directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the 2018 tax levy for street and bridge purposes.
 From 0.06% of the value as equalized were assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford to 0.10% of the value as equalized were assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 8, the committee recommends approval of the 2018 property tax abatements.
 For 2018, the debt service levy is $10,530,391 and will be abated in its entirety. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the 2019 budget and appropriation ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 i just suggested none of us called the legal director for a while he should be busy so we have uh nine items uh before us is there questions uh on the night items uh alderman tumor uh thank you mayor uh i would propose we vote on these individual or broken uh into separate items that number nine be laid over
 so to do i guess a couple of things one are you asking for number nine making a motion for number nine motion to lay over number nine and we vote on on those then so we have a motion in a second and i believe that that's automatically laid over so then one through eight would you like them to be voted on please all together
 If Council, I wouldn't have an issue with voting on those as a whole, just as long as we have number nine in motion to lay that over. Okay, so now we have items one through eight with item number nine being laid over. Is there any discussion on items one through eight? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye.
 McNeely, Chiarelli. Items 1 through 8, 10 ayes. Excellent. Those items are passed. Next up we have officers' reports.
 I just want to bring some attention to an item that you have on your desk from Alderman Tim Durkee, who's the chair, and Alderman Joseph Chiarelli, who's the vice chair of the advisory committee members, that state advisory committee members for the existing building task force. This will be scheduled for your consideration and vote by...
 The City Council on November 19th, 2018. We can also provide you with contact information as we have done with the Police and Fire Commission and any other appointees. We can provide you with their contact information if you would like to reach out to them and have questions about anyone who's being nominated.
 I'll open it up to the floor for any officers' reports. Alderman Frost. Thank you. I would just like to make a formal request. I received a letter here tonight from a resident that lives near Palo Verde in Calderwood, who's called me a number of times and had some issues with speeding cars and is requesting a
 a four-way instead of a two-way stop at the corner of Palo Verde and Calderwood. So I'd just like to pass it along so it gets to the appropriate traffic commission and or public works so I can give it to whoever you direct me to give it to. Certainly, we can make sure that Director Stockman receives that and places it on the traffic commission agenda. Thank you. Thank you. Any other further discussion? Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to give a really big thank you to the Public Works Department. We were working on a project in our neighborhood called Friendship Benches. It went wrong from the very beginning. It was a very difficult project. It looked like it would be really simple, but God bless the Public Works Department at the end. They got the cement slabs in. Everything is done, and we're going to be able—
 to meet our requirements for the grant that we got. So thank you. Wonderful, thank you. Alderman Deitch. Your Honor, thank you for letting me speak here from the Office of Report. This last week in the 10th Ward, we had a town hall meeting that was co-sponsored by WRX TV and three of our neighborhood groups. I was well attended in spite of the evening's weather. It was just a wonderful event
 I just want to say again a special thank you to WREX, who has led the community in a discussion on domestic violence. And the event was streamed live.
 and it's being archived on YouTube. So anybody who would like to go back and look for that under that particular evening and the subject title, Out of the Darkness, they can see a run of the whole idea. So I just want to say thank you again for all that participated, and the neighborhood leaders that helped us put this together, Alpine East Ridge, Sandy Towers, B.J. Geringles from Palmwood, and Sherry Rustin from Calvin Park South. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you. Any further officers reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Just wanting to remind the public that tomorrow is election day. And hopefully everyone will get out and have the opportunity to go and vote. It's extremely important, not just this election, but every election. Thank you. Thank you. Any other further officers reports?
 Seeing none, we'll move on. We have an item that's been laid over for five weeks, which is an appointment of Sam Schmitz to serve a three-year term on the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. Mr. Schmitz is replacing longtime Board and Fire Commissioner Lorraine Logan. I believe you've had his information for some time. Is there a discussion on the item before us? Alderman Thunberg? Yeah, I'd like to make a motion to lay this over one more time, possibly.
 possibly make the motion well yeah hopefully only one more time so we have a motion to lay this item over one uh again and we have a second is that automatically okay clerk will you please call the roll on appointment or on the layover for the appointment of sam schmidt turkey lugerman tunberg frost thompson kelly hoffman beach quinones mcneely shirelli
 6 ayes, 4 noes. So it's laid over, right? Correct. Next up, we have motions and resolutions. Alderman Chiarelli for Code and Regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. The first is a pre-annexation agreement from 5430 North Main Street.
 The owner of the subject property has requested a pre-annexation to the City of Rockford. The owner has submitted a pre-annexation agreement and has designated the City of Rockford legal director as its agent for the purpose of executing a petition for annexation upon the property obtaining a renewable energy credit contract from the Illinois Power Agency to install a solar farm. Number two is the 2019 City Council and Committee's calendar.
 Place those up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on the two items before us? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Schoenberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Tenayes. Thank you. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Alderman Frost. Number 1 is an award of a joint purchasing contract for road salt to Compass Materials
 of overland park kansas the amount of fifty dollars and three cents per ton for up to sixteen thousand eight hundred tons for an estimated purchase of eight hundred and forty thousand five hundred and four dollars the contract duration is one year the funding source is the street department operating budget
 Number two is an award of joint purchasing contract for janitorial supplies to supply works of Bedford, Massachusetts for an annual contract of $70,000. The contract duration is one year with four one year optional renewal. The funding source is various operating budgets. Number three is an award of joint purchasing contract for self-contained breathing apparatus to air one equipment of South Elgin, Illinois in the amount of $792,000. The funding source is capital lease funds, fire department capital budget.
 Is an award of non-competitive contract for lieutenant rank testing to industrial organizational solutions of Oak Brook, Illinois. The amount is $63,495. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is board of.
 fire and police commission budget number five is an award of rfp for the cad rms system for 9-1-1 and police to try tech software systems in the amount of 3.4 million dollars for the cad rms application software consulting training and information services the funding source is lease proceeds along with reimbursements by the etsb winnebago county and other municipalities who choose to participate in the program
 Number six is an award of joint purchasing contract for the CAD RMS system to CDWG of Vernon Hills, Illinois, in the amount of $88,000. The project requires Microsoft server operating systems and database servers. The city of Rockford procures all of its software licenses through CDWG on a state of the only contract. The funding sources lease proceeds along with reimbursements by the ETSB, Winnebago County and other municipalities who choose to participate in the project.
 Number seven is an award of non-competitive bid for the CAD RMS system to Dell of Round Rock, Texas, the amount of $152,000. The project requires physical server hardware for production and disaster recovery sites. The city of Rockford has standardized on a Dell hardware to maximize operational efficiency. The funding source is lease proceeds along with reimbursements by the ETSB, Winnebago County, and other municipalities who choose to participate in the project.
 number eight is an award of non-competitive contract for the cad rms system to federal engineering of fairfax virginia the amount of thirty three thousand dollars federal engineering wrote the specification and rfp for the project procurement they have expertise in system cad rms implementations will and will be utilized for the cat system cut over planning and testing
 The funding sources lease proceeds along with reimbursements by the same folks that have been named in every other one so far. Number nine is the award of the non-competitive contract for CADRMS system to Insight of Tempe, Arizona in the amount of $550,000. The project requires high availability storage for production disaster recovery sites, upgrades to the city tape backup system, disaster recovery software, and implementation services.
 The city of Rockford has previously awarded a contract purchase order to Insight for storage and backup needs. The funding source is the same. Number 10 is the award of non-competitive contract for the CAT RMS systems to Sentinel Technologies of Downers Grove, Illinois in the amount of $168,000. The project requires a high availability network for production and disaster recovery sites.
 The last three bids for network equipment 2008, 9, and 16 were awarded to Sentinel. Technology is based on qualifications and or lowest cost. The funding source is the same. Number 11 is an award of non-competitive contract for the CADRMS system to Winnebago County in the amount of $160,000. The project requires interfaces to several existing systems including jail system and court and case management system. The project will pay Winnebago County for the development of these interfaces. The funding source is the same.
 Number 12 is an award of engineering agreement for Sandilson Road and 35th Street sidewalk designed to civil engineering services in the amount of $37,641. The funding source is sales tax.
 Number 13, a police department donation of equipment to the Rockford Public School District 205 Science Department at Rockford East High School. The following is a list of equipment, several overhead grow lamps, fans, vents, tubing and cords. These items will be used for education and training in the horticulture program at Rockford East High School.
 And number 14 is the police department donation to the police museum in Midway Village of the following firearms. A Smith and Wesson 38 caliber revolver, a Steyr M98 rifle,
 A Smith & Wesson 38 revolver, a Smith & Wesson 357 revolver, a Colt 80 45 semi-automatic pistol, an Irma Work 38 caliber semi-automatic pistol, a Smith & Wesson 38 revolver, and a Colt 38 special. The firearms will be placed on display in a secured glass case. I present all these, Your Honor, all 14 of them to the city council. I'm done.
 So we have 14 items before you is there any questions or comments or discussion on those 14 alderman mcneely? Thank you Mr. Mayor on items five through ten all of them stating that The cost shall be shared with the winnebago county and other municipalities that may participate Do we know at this point? How much the county and any municipalities that are going to contribute to any of these amounts?
 Any or all of these amounts? Director Trommels? Thank you, Your Honor. I don't have the numbers in front of me, but right now, as of today, only the only Winnebago County and the ETSB have agreed to the the IGAs that were referred earlier this evening. I'm still working with the other municipalities on whether they're going to participate or not. If they choose not to participate in the project, then the total cost of the project will be decreased.
 So, Mr. Mayor, would the amount for Winnebago County be 50%?
 So I don't know the number off the top of my head, but I do recall in our presentation There was a pie graph that showed the percentage that it would that they would that they utilize and they would pay that percentage I just can't recall that percentage. Can anyone else recall that? Director travels. Thank you honor so on a percentage basis for the RMS piece of the project when a Winnebago County is approximately 25% and
 City Rockford's 60% and the other means municipalities make up the balance of that So then the county has paid their 25% of each of these so this amount each amount would be less 25% for the city Director Charles, I'm sorry. Could you repeat that Alderman? Oh
 So the county has paid their 25%, so each amount would be 25% less than what's being presented tonight, or has those amounts been adjusted for the 25%? So the total amount of the project that's being asked to be funded tonight is the maximum amount of the project cost. That assumes that every municipality will be joining the project.
 And so if everyone joins the project, that 25% that Winnebago County will be paying is a portion of the total project, assuming everyone's coming in. Thank you. Is there further discussion or comments on the 14 items before you? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Abstain on 13. Toomer. Abstain on C.
 Ross. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Item number 1, 9 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 10 ayes. Item number 13, 9 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 14, 10 ayes. Thank you. All those items passed. Next up, we have new business. Alderman Shirelli for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 i have an ordinance establishing a no parking from 10 p.m to 6 a.m restriction on both sides of sablewood drive and halsted road south to the end of sablewood drive we have an ordinance approving the no parking bus stop parking restriction on the south side of benton street from summit street to 215 feet east of summit street
 number three is an ordinance establishing an all-way stop at the intersection of 6th street and 23rd avenue thus repealing the existing one-way stop at the intersection of 6th street and 23rd avenue number four is an ordinance approving the variation to allow a chain link fence material in the front yards along camlin avenue and logan street at 821 camlin avenue
 Number five is an ordinance approving the variation to increase the height from a freestanding business sign from eight feet to 16 feet two inches and a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage for a freestanding sign from 64 square feet to 120 square feet at six six seventy seven East Riverside Boulevard number six an ordinance approving the pre annexation agreement and zoning map amendment from County AG zoning district to I I
 One light industrial zoning district and a special use permit for a freestanding solar energy generating facility At 54 30 North Main Street number seven is an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit for a 1370 square foot addition to the east side of the convenience store at 29 14 West State Street number eight is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license for 1370 square feet addition
 to a convenience store at 2914 West State Street. Number 9 is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 1909 11th Street. Number 10 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 1909 11th Street. And number 11 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store at 425 15th Avenue.
 place those ordinances up for passage your honor thank you so we have 11 items before you just want to call note to items four and five i believe both need 10 votes uh for those two items so items four and five would need 10 votes or every single person i believe here i think so yeah uh thank you so is there any discussion questions concerns about items one through eleven
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Items 1 through 8, 10 ayes. Item number 9, 1 no, 9 ayes, 10 and 11 are 10 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Aye.
 you know number one is an ordinance approving the city of rockford vehicle replacement policy number two was an ordinance approving the parking lot lease agreement between the city of rockford and first evangelical lutheran church the agreement would allow for the church to lease 90 parking spaces number three is an ordinance approving a lease agreement for the purchase of a computer aid design and records management system
 For 911 and the police department with PNC equipment finance of Columbus, Ohio for a lease rate of 3.81%. The annual payments would be $1,027,775.75 for a term of five years. The total amount financed is $4.6 million. The funding source is 911 and police department budget for 2019.
 number four is an ordinance improving the lease agreement for three fire trucks with pnc equipment finance and a lease rate of 4.17 for three fire aerial trucks the annual payments will be 479 528 dollars and 57 cents
 For a term of eight years, the total amount financed is $3,206,000. The funding sources are 2019 fire department budget. Number five is an ordinance approving the 2018 proposed property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director in accepting the amount of $55,567,606 for
 for the levies in the corporate police protection, police pension, school crossing guards, fire protection, fire maintenance of building, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers compensation and auditing funds. The final city levy amount will be approximately $48,187,606. Number six is an ordinance approving the 2018 tax levy for street and bridge purposes from the 0.06% to
 0.10 of the value as equalized or assessed by the department of revenue of all taxable property in the city of rockford Number seven is an ordinance approving the 2018 property tax abatement for 2018 the debt service levy is 10 million 530 391 dollars and will be invaded in its entirety number eight was laid over. Thank you So we have seven items before you is there any questions comments, uh discussion for those seven items?
 Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Rugeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Eight ayes. So, give me one second. So, all those just took eight, right? Equal. All passed? Right. Okay. Sorry, thank you.
 alderman thunberg thank you mayor i'd like to actually make a motion to reconsider roman numeral nine number one for the appointment of sam schmitz to serve on the three-year serve a three-year term on the board of fire and police commissioners yeah i'd like to make a motion to reconsider that we have a motion and we have a second is there any discussion on this motion seeing none uh clerk will you please call the roll
 Turkey Right layover so No, and I vote out my understanding would make it so that the item will not be laid over and then we'll take up that vote again Logum in Toomer all right frost Thompson Kelly Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely eight eyes one nose. Oh
 Excellent, so we now vote on that item. Okay, so now we need a motion We have a motion a second to bring forward the appointment of Sam Schmitz to serve a three-year term on the board of fire and police commissioners We have a motion and second. Is there any is this a voice or So we have a motion and a second
 A second to bring forward Sam Schmidt. Is there any discussion on this item? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Bogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Nine ayes. Excellent. Thank you. And next up we have our favorite time of the evening, which is when we turn to Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I move to go into closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor of going into closed session, please say oh, and we're going to do a roll call. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Beach. Quinones. Aye.
 McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Nainice? Excellent. We'll break for a closed session.