frost Serena printing Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenones McNeely Bonnie 12 present excellent. We have a quorum sir a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on October 24th 2022 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed next We have three public hearings, so I'll turn this over to Alderwoman Torina for our first public hearing on the proposed right-of-way vacation for Four Rivers subdivision. Thank you, Your Honor. Pursuant to 65 ILCS... Wait, hold on. Yeah, yeah. Sorry. One second. Yeah, okay. That's right. Sorry, I just wanted to make sure I was reading the right thing. Pursuant to 65 ILCS... 511-91-1, a public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed right-of-way vacation. Notice of this hearing what hearing was given by publication and the rocker register star on October 21st 2022 that notice informed citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, November 7th 2022 at 530 in council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford Illinois for the consideration of a proposed right-of-way vacation for four rivers bluff on Subdivision including Martin Road Foley Street to Blair Street Berry Road Lyle Street to Grant Park Boulevard Lyle Street Martin Road to Berry Road Blair Street Martin Road to Kennan Road and Grant Park Boulevard Berry Road to Kennan Road. Are there any questions or comments from the council members on this vacation? No questions or counts or Okay, alderman Pronti, please speak Thank you I DID NOT GET A CHANCE. I THANK YOU TODD FOR SHARING SOME CONTACT INFORMATION WITH ME. I DID NOT GET A CHANCE TO ACT ON IT. SO COULD YOU JUST TELL ME, IS THIS DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WAS PRESENTED TO THE PUBLIC BEFORE I'm sorry, and a director, and I know I'm not saying your name. Mr. Cagnoni, is the information provided this evening different than the information provided before to the public? No, it's not. And when you say make sure I'm clarifying what was presented to the public in regards to what was on the committee two weeks ago, this is the same information. This is just the public hearing that's required as part of it. Okay. And going back maybe when they had discussions met with the Residents is this any way different from when they met with the residents when four rivers met with the residents? Thank you I can't say for certainty because I was not at that meeting But I do understand this has been their long-range plan that has been communicated But I can't verify if it's the exact site plan or full information that was provided to the residents at that time Okay, thank you. Any other questions from council members? I Are there any questions or comments from the public? Seeing that there's no questions or comments from the public, this hearing is now closed. We'll move on to our next hearing pursuant to 65 ILCS 511-91-1. The public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed right-of-way vacation. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on October 21st, 2022. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, November 7th, 2022 at 530 in Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed right-of-way vacation of the area between 909 North Prospect Street and... and 1700 Rural Street south of 909 North Prospect Street, also known as Unimproved Brownwood Road. Are there any questions or comments from council members on this vacation? No questions from council members. Are there any questions or comments on this vacation from the public? Seeing that there's no questions from council members or the public, this hearing is now closed. And we'll go to the final hearing. Public hearing is being held tonight pursuant of 65 Illinois compiled statutes 511-15.1-3 for the pre-annexation agreement for the following property, 16XX Memorial Boulevard. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on October 23, 2022. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, November 7, 2022, 2022 at 530 in council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Council located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed pre-annexation agreement for 16XX Memorial Boulevard. Are there any comments or questions from council members on this pre-annexation agreement? Seeing that there's no questions from council members, are there any questions or comments from the public? Since there are no questions from council or the public, this hearing is now closed. Thank you. Your Honor, for my time. Thank you, Alderwoman Tarina. Next, we'll move to petitions and communications, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. I don't understand. Right. All right. Item number one under Planning and Development Committee, memorandum for Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding an amendment to the purchase contract with J. Jefferson Company, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number two, memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding a resolution for the TIF Commercial Rehabilitation Program, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number three. Thank you. Memorandum from Anna Garrison economic development manager regarding a proposed enterprise zone number one boundary amendment to delete parcels referred to Planning and Development Committee an item number four memorandum from Anna Garrison economic development manager regarding a proposed Enterprise zone number one boundary amendment to add parcels referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you next We'll go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Trina your honor The Code and Regulation Committee, we have seven items. Item number one is a memorandum for Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the 2022-2023... Contract between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item number two, a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding the final plot of Green Meadow Estate Subdivision, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item three, a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding the final... PUD PLAT OF COLEMAN YARD SUBDIVISION REFERRED TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE. ITEM 4, THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AGENDA FOR THE MEETING TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 15, 2022. AND MINUTES FROM THAT MEETING FOR CONSIDERATION AT THE CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE MEETING ON NOVEMBER 28, 2022 REFERRED TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE. Item 5, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board Agenda for the meeting to be held on November 15, 2022. And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on November 28, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 6 a memorandum for Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding proposed amendments to the city of rock for code of ordinances article 4 record rotation list for record services service requests section 29 through 176 record charges on police calls referred to code a regulation committee and And lastly, item number seven, the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on November 9th, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at code and regulation committee meeting on November 28th, 2022. Also referred to code and regulation committee. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Trina. Next, we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. All these matters will be referred to the finance and personnel committee. number one is a memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding a city-state letter of understanding for the alpine road reconstruction number two is a memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the rockford park district for harman park number three is a memorandum from owen carter health and human services deputy director regarding the approval of a sub award grant agreements for continuum of care emergency solutions grant Number four is a memorandum from John Posey, Police Business Manager, regarding the acceptance of the fiscal year 2023 Illinois Department of Transportation's Sustained Traffic Enforcement Program, known as STEP grant award. And number five is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the approval of the 2022 property tax levy, the property tax abatement, fee schedule, 2023 appropriation ordinance, and 2023 salary ordinance. Thank you. Thank you alderman frost next we'll move to public speakers. We have five public speakers this evening wanted to Remind all the public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and back left of City Council Chambers you have three minutes to address city city council members at that time you will hear Cell phone rain and that'll be to stop your comments. I Our first public speaker this evening is Marie Kahn. Is Marie Kahn with us? Can come back in case Marie shows up. Our second public speaker this evening is Lawrence Ruse. There's a speaker right there, right? I don't want to talk too loud. How am I doing? Good evening council members, Mr. Mayor, and honored guests. My name is Larry Ruse. I co-chair CAG. We are a community advocacy group. every group has a goal at its core a flame that burns brightly that fuels our passion for a brighter tomorrow cag group members care deeply about our great city we are a diverse group we have ideas recommendations which we hope to present to the council members and to you mr mayor for your review for your consideration and in the hopes of approvals cag hopes that our ideas and recommendations will parallel some of the existing projects that are in process, as well as spark some new areas that can benefit from a refreshing. Our goal is to be a part of Rockford's growth and that some of our ideas will help this great city thrive even more than it already is. I thank you in advance and on behalf of our group members for allowing our voices to be heard, and I wish everyone a blessed evening. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is... Daryl Burnell senior Daryl Burnell senior will come back to drill our next public speaker this evening is Booker T Woodard cleaning Rafa City Council November this 722 good evening. Mayor Rockford, Illinois, thank you for the opportunity. My name is Booker T. Woodard will with senior 1227 Holland Street, Rafa, Illinois a homestead since 1978 I believe the rechecked wood property on Rock Street Fifth Ward could be a USDA museum and Booker T. Washington agriculture center. He died November the 14th, 1915. I also believe urban agriculture could be considered for rechecked wood property in Fifth Ward because the Fifth Ward needs a written plan. Urban agriculture is new money, United Department of Agriculture, vertical farming, and the Rockville Development Corporation Homesteader Booker T. Woodard, thank you very much. I'd like to share with you a letter from U.S. Department of Agriculture, Springfield. Dear Booker, it was nice visiting with you regarding the Urban Agriculture Program. Thanks for the work that you are doing and moving this initiative forward. I include the letter of Urban Outreach Program. for our discussion. Please be informed of your outcome with the Rockford City Council. I just want to let you know this is new money, urban development as a question. A lot of money there. Old buildings are being used, putting hundreds and millions of dollars into them. Thank you very much. Next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Thank you. Proverbs 28, verses 20, 27. God want us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this Proverbs could be re-estated positive. Those who open their eyes to the poor people would be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this through other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's need? This is a very important election, midterm election year. Slavery is on the ballot for voters in five U.S. states. More than 150 years after slaves were free in the United States, voters in five states will soon decide whether to close the loophole that leads to the proliferation of different forms of slavery, forced labor by people convicted of certain crimes, I'm going to go and talk about Florida. What is wrong with this state? Video show a stunning Florida arrest for voting. They are going to pay the price, the governor said during the news conference announced the arrest. Donald Trump's team has found a other way to intimidate people from not voting. Of the 19 people arrested, 12 were registered as Democrats and at least 13 are black. The Herald Times found the governor voted... fraud arrest rejected by miami judge and miami judge on friday tossed out one of the cases against one of the 19 people's accused uh accused by the governor elected of election fraud forcing illegal in 2020 i just do not understand how is illegal for false advertising however it is okay for politicians to blame lie fear mongering. If the Republicans win, it's the Democratic Party on fault. The reason being they did very little to counter the lies and the fear mongering. Plus, they take the have-nots vote for granted. The Rockford City have gotten millions of dollars that was supposed to go on the war on drugs, crime, and domestic violence. However, less than 10% ever reach the have-nots. Most of it goes to the system for administrative costs. Next time, I'll be able to talk a little bit more about whether the funds going. The Democratic Party takes the have not votes for granted. We the have nots is damn if we do vote and damn if we don't vote. This is like doing slavery. The master have slaves and they only count for three fifths of the citizen vote. So who the master vote for, that's the way the slaves vote. I will go into details later. Back in August 2020, Governor J.P. Pritchard stated, those who do not take the coronavirus shot is my enemy. The next time I'm able to speak, I will go into details about that, and the city mayor promised that I have not. Thank you. Thank you. Is Marie Kahn with us? Is Darrell Burnell Sr. with us? Okay, we will move to new committee reports. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you your honor I don't number one under playing a development committee recommends approval of the proposed river edge redevelopment zone a number one boundary Amendment to remove parcels from the boundaries the legal director shall prepare the proper ordinance. Thank you We have one item before us City Council. Is there any discussion or questions? Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I Is there a reason why we want to remove certain parcels? Absolutely. Thank you, Alderman. These parcels in question are related to the Barbara Coleman redevelopment. These are the vacant lots that are along South Main. And the reality is that the River Edge redevelopment zone is best suited for historic properties and actual structures. This is outside of the historic district, and so we are proposing to remove it from the River Edge and later include it into the Enterprise Zone, which is better suited to support the redevelopment. Thank you any further discussion or questions seeing none clerk. Could you please call the roll alderman Logum in timber? frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kinones McNeely Bonnie 12 eyes excellent next we'll move to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina. Okay, let me hear my voice for a little bit tonight I I have 14 items for our committee starting with item number one committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval To repeal the existing two-hour parking on the south side of Indian Terrace east and west to north one block Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item to the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish no parking anytime and On the north side of Javelin Drive from Easton Parkway to South Newtown Drive, thus repealing the existing no parking anytime on the north side of Javelin Drive from Easton Parkway to East End, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 3 committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the following items a request to establish two-hour parking on the south side of Mound Avenue from North Main Street to Indian South thus repealing existing to our parking on the south side of Indian Terrace east-west to north one block and A request to establish two-way stop control at the intersection of Lawndale Avenue and Grenshaw Street. And a request to establish two-way stop control at the intersection of Roxbury Road and Regents Park Road, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Regents Park Road, yielding for Roxbury Road. Item 4. Committee recommends approval of the right-of-way vacation request for Four River Sanitation. The property is described as follows. Martin Road, Ferry Road, Lyle Street, Flair Street, and Grant Park. measuring 5.25 acres, approximately 228,858 square feet. The vacation shall be in accordance with easement agreements between Four River Sanitation Authority, NICOR Gas, and Commonwealth Edison. This information will be stated on the final recorded plat. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 5. Committee recommends approval of the right-of-way vacation request for the property adjacent to 909 North Prospect Street. The property is described as follows. The area between 909 North Prospect Street and 1700 Royal Street. south of 909 North Prospect Street, also known as an unapproved Brownwood Road, measuring .32 acres and approximately 13,927 square feet. The requester has maintained the subject property since purchasing their home and wishes to make improvements to the land. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 6 committee recommends approval of the pre annexation agreement for 16 XX Memorial Boulevard The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance The owner of the subject property has requested pre annexation to the city of Rockford item number seven Committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval of a license for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery convenience store in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 601 West State Street and SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS, THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. ITEM 8, COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS SUSTAINING THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS APPROVAL FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR OUTDOOR STORAGE OF CABLE EQUIPMENT IN THE C3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 605 18TH STREET SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS. LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. Item 9. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for outdoor storage of automotive parts and equipment in an I-1 light industrial facility. Zoning District at 3228, 3230, 32XX, and 3238 Kishwaukee Street. Subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 10. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage for accessory structures from 1134 square feet to 1448 square feet in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 3 Jacoby Place. Subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 11. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for renewal of a special use permit 32-20 for a freestanding solar energy generating system in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 5430 North Main Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 12. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from R1, single-family residential zoning district to I3, airport industrial zoning district at 2630 Mason Avenue. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 13, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning... The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development for a residential and commercial mixed-use development consisting of the redevelopment of 10 historic buildings into residential and neighborhood retail uses, construction of new townhomes, new three-flat buildings, four new mixed-use buildings, two new parking garages, a public central yard, and a grass amphitheater in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 1210 and 1220, 1204, 1306, 1234, 1208, 1334, 1316, 1308, 1314, 1222, 1230, 1326, 1320, 1224, 1304 South Main Street, 1200, 1235, 1XX, 1329 Rock Street, 110, 150, 212, Luma Street, 211, Knowlton Street, 220, Montague Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly... 580 North Memorial Boulevard, the Zoning Board of Appeals recommends approval for a zoning map amendment from Winnebago County AG to I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District and special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 580 North Memorial Boulevard. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these items before you all. Well done. All right. We've got 14 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 14 items? Alderman Toomberg? Thanks, Mayor. Item 5, I'd just like to thank Scott Capovilla on his work on this on the right-of-way vacation. Also, the owners, Steve and Mitzi... months are have taken care of this property for years and years basically for the city and And I want to thank them for that And this was a good move and we're also as a city getting rid of a piece of property that we needed to so Thank you. Thank you alderwoman McNeely. Thank you. Mr mayor on item number nine for the outdoor storage of automotive parts and equipment and Wanting to know what type of automotive parts would be on the outside. Thank you director Franzen passenger vehicle parts So not for sale but related to their operations At that location. Thank you Any other questions or discussion items clerk? Could you please call the roll alderman Logum in timber frost Tarina Brenty I Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenones McNeely no on 9 and 13 I am the remaining funny items 1 through 8 12 eyes item number 9 10 eyes 2 nose items 10 through 12 12 eyes item 13 11 eyes 1 no and item 14 12 eyes Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $9,026,721.93 and $1,000,000. As approved of the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on October 24, 2022. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an agreement with Elite Lifeline for ambulance services when the city does not have internal resources available to respond to calls for service. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these two matters before you. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Bonnie 12 eyes excellent next we'll go to officers reports and you know council members have any reports alderman rose Thank you your honor. I just wanted to thank our Kyle our public works director on responding to a tree issue for a resident. That was really quick And I think they're really happy with the fact that when they emailed me it was a one-day turnover rate So it was nice, but I also wanted to share real quick There's a there's an artist in our town His name is Vic Rivera And he sometimes just throws these really crazy but amazing ideas out there. And one of them that he put out there on social media was the Nelson Knitting Factory and the water tower that's right next to it. And I just thought it was just an ingenious way to preserve some history but also take a look at ways we can continuously kind of, add to our local urban art scene and he proposed an idea of changing that water tower into one of the largest sock monkeys in the world and and I as Crazy as it sounds. I think it's one of the best ideas I've seen in the art world for our city because um, I think it would attract people to that part of town that oftentimes is seen as like not the best neighborhood, but um when you when you get to know the neighborhood and you go to places like tinker swiss cottage and And you see the development happening there and and we see the development happening there That's something like a project like that would would definitely um kind of change the um Think it would change a few things on the way people view that area So just wanted to throw that out there that I hope you know people are open to those kind of ideas in our community whether it's a suggestion by someone or an artist or Just a regular citizen who wants to do some good I thought it would be something to share with the council and with our city staff on maybe looking at you know What what a project like that would cost but I just wanted to throw that out there. I Thanks. Any other reports? Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. Well, thank you for those town hall meetings. I stayed quite a while afterwards listening to people talk about how happy they were that you had those meetings. And they thought that Chief Red, you, Jennifer Ketchapaya, all were wonderful. The only thing is they want more, and they want them Facebook Live. Thank you. Because after they started talking about them on Nextdoor, then people wanted access to them. So I would like to suggest Facebook Live and also going to remind you to put a link for Community Connection on the front page of our webpage. Absolutely. So I know Laura is working on doing a Facebook Live. Against at least one protest than me on that. No, I'm joking, but she is working on doing the Facebook live And also I believe the link should be done now and it should be up there for you. Thank you Absolutely. No great suggestion any other reports? I'm sorry alderman to work. Thanks mayor. I'd like to take this opportunity to be recognize maker space and it is a downtown and if those of you not familiar with maker space, please take a look at the Please look it up. Take a look at their website. It does give opportunities to individuals who are small businesses wants to someone who wants to create something or Could be somebody with hobbies Small businesses have evolved out of things like this so they offer the facilities and much of the equipment for individuals to work on things such as You know woodworking tool PNCs kind of different things And so Kevin Holdman has done a really good job down there They have about 40 members and the nearest one here the nearest is And the only maker space close to Rockford is Madison. So it does attract individuals outside of Rockford that come here and use that space. And my understanding, Mayor, is that you will be going through it as well. Great, that's good to hear. And so maker space, and for those interested, maybe that sit here have constituents I could use a space like that. That's what it's designed for and these individuals that belong to this Are able to bounce ideas off each other and different things so it's a really cool thing and right downtown behind Rockford roasting palace shoes and building behind there, so thank you. Yeah, really excited I'm actually going there tomorrow, and I have not been there for probably two three years So really excited to see the evolution of it any other reports I? I would just add on Saturday evening, had the opportunity to go to the Think Big second class graduation. They had 36 graduates and announced that four have now brick and mortar businesses. So really exciting and just an awesome ceremony for their next class. They already have it full for January. And I want to say there's a waiting list that being slotted for their May of 2023 class. So a really good event. And other item, a huge thank you to our public works team, to the Illinois Department of Transportation for the reopening of West State Street. And was really great to see I mean obviously we know that in the first phase of West State you had the new grocery store you had district one police you had the Crusader clinic and Administrative offices, but as you go out and to phase two you're starting to see residential and commercial businesses Re-investing in their own properties and it's just really amazing to see an eager to see new economic development come to West Street With that the next items are appointments laid over those are laid over still and they'll be laid over until November 23rd At least I should say and next we'll go to motions and resolutions. There's nothing under Planning and Development Committee So we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and all the woman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I The Code Regulation Committee recommends approval of Snow Market. This event is scheduled to be held on Friday, December 16th to Sunday, December 18th. The event times are as follows. December 16th to 17th, 3 to 9 p.m. December 18th, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. This event will be held in the Municipal Lot 31 behind the Norwegian, located at 1402 North Main Street. thank you thank you is there any discussion on this item all those in favor say aye aye those opposed adam passes next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost thank you number one the committee recommends approval the award of the rfp for well drilling consultants with strand associates in the amount of eighty three thousand dollars the project is estimated to be completed by december 29 2023 the funding sources the water replacement improvement account Number two, the committee recommends approval of award of a non-competitive contract for water meter supplies to Badger Meter for an estimated annual value of $300,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through December 31, 2023, with four possible one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered contract renewal only. The funding source is the Water Fund Operating Budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for automated meter reading to United Systems of Benton, Kentucky for an estimated annual value of $200,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through December 31, 2023 with four possible one-year extensions. Again, annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered contract renewal only. The funding source is, again, the Water Fund operating budget. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for well number 13 reservoir exterior rehabilitation to strand associates amount of 99 000 The project is estimated to be complete in 2023 the funding sources of water replacement improvement account number five The committee recommends approval and acceptance of the uw health swiss american hospital mobile integrated health care grant in the amount of 125 thousand dollars the grant will be utilized to provide an ongoing funding for a current mobile integrated health program. This has been a multi-year award to fund an existing position. Both parties continue to see value in this program for reducing 911 calls and hospital readmissions. Number six, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Illinois DCEO Community Block Grant Award in the amount of $1,035,456 The grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is from January 31, 2023 through December 31, 2023. Grant funds will be used for developing and implementing programs to assist low-income Illinois residents in working towards family stabilization and self-sufficiency. 7. The Committee recommends approval of a tax-exempt lease for two fire engines and outfitting the Midland States Bank at a lease rate of 2.85%. The lease will require annual payments of $221,447.66 for seven years. number eight the community recommends approval of resolution authorizing the central services manager to execute a contract for the 2022-23 medium duty fleet for the city on terms as deemed appropriate in the best interest of the city nine will be held out number 10 the committee rockford complete street revitalization project preliminary engineering agreement hr green and the amount of one million five hundred and seventy nine thousand three hundred and four dollars the project is estimated to be completed by december 2023 the funding sources are the mft funds idot and rebuilding american infrastructure with sustainability and equity grant number 11 is award a bid for fire station 4 roof replacement to bp roofing solutions for an estimated contract value of thirty eight thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars the funding source is the american rescue plan funds number 12 is an award of bid for fire station 8 roof ROOF REPLACEMENT, HC ANDERSON ROOFING OF ROCKTON IN THE AMOUNT OF $66,792. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS ALSO THE AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN FUND. NUMBER 13 IS AN ACCEPTANCE AND APPROVAL OF HUD CONTINUOUS CARE PLANNING GRANT FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF HUD IN THE AMOUNT OF $61,387. THE GRANT DOES REQUIRE A 25% COST MATCH IN THE AMOUNT OF $15,347. The grant term is from December 1, 2022 to November 30, 2023. The grant funds will pay for approved clients housing and supportive services. The cost match will be obtained through the community services block grant funds. Number 14 is a resolution approving the appropriation of the MFT funds to be used for the city's matching funding responsibility for preliminary engineering costs of the Rockford Complete Streets Revitalization Project. The requested amount of $2.9 million will cover the city's matching portion of the preliminary engineering, construction, and construction engineering for the project. I place these 14 matters before you. Rack for 13. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So there was 14 item 9s being held out, so there's 13 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 13 items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. On number 8, is there a contract in place right now with the central service manager? Director Saunders. There is not a contract in place right now with Central Services Manager. This resolution would allow our Central Services Manager to, when the order banks open, whether it be through a source well contract or direct from the local Ford dealer, enter into a contract for our medium-duty fleet. I got that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Bonnie 12 ice. Thank you next we'll go to new business and playing Development Committee and older woman Wilkins Thank you your honor an ordinance approving the river edge redevelopment zone number one boundary amendment to remove parcels from the boundaries Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item all those in favor say aye aye Those opposed? Item passes. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, an ordinance repealing the existing two-hour parking on the south side of Indian Terrace east-west to North 1 block. Item two, an ordinance establishing no parking any time on the north side of Javelin Drive from Easton Parkway to South Newtown Drive, thus repealing the existing no parking any time on the north side of Javelin Drive from Easton Parkway to East End. Item three, an ordinance repealing the existing no parking any time on the north side of Javelin Drive from Easton Parkway to East End. Item 3 in ordinance approving the right-of-way vacation request for Four Rivers subdivision. The property is described as follows. Martin Road to Berry Road to Lyle Street, Blair Street and Grant Park Boulevard. Item 4 in ordinance approving the right-of-way vacation request for the property adjacent to 909 North Prospect Street. The property is described as follows. The area between 909 North Prospect Street and 1700 Rural Street South of 909 North Prospect Street, also known as an unimproved Brownwood Road. Item 5. An ordinance approving the pre-annexation agreement for 16XX Memorial Boulevard. Item 6. In ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a grocery convenience store in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 601 West State Street. Item 7, in ordinance approving a special use permit for outdoor storage of cable equipment in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 605 18th Street. item 8 and ordinance approving a special use permit for outdoor storage of automotive parts and equipment and I want light industrial zoning district at 3 2 2 8 32 30 32 X X and 32 38 kishwaukee street item 9 and ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage for accessory structures from 11 34 square feet to 1448 square feet in our one single-family residential zoning district at 3 Jacoby place item 10 In ordinance approving the renewal of a special use permit number 32-20 for a freestanding solar energy generating system in I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 5430 North Main Street. Item 11, in ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from R-1 Single Family Residential Zoning District to I-3 Airport Industrial Zoning District at 2630 Mason Avenue. Item 12 in ordinance approving a special use permit for a plans unit development for residential and commercial mixed-use development Consisting of the redevelopment of 10 historic buildings into residential and neighborhood retail uses construction of new townhomes new three flat buildings for new mixed-use buildings to new parking garages a public central yard and a grass amphitheater c4 Urban Mixed Use Zoning District, 1210, 1220, 1204, 1306, 1234, 1208, 1334, 1316, 1308, 213, 14, 1222, 1326, 1320, 1224, 1324, South Main Street, 1200, 1235, 1XX, 1329, Rock Street, 110, 151, 212, Wimbledon Street, 211, Knowlton Street, 220, Montague Street. Lastly item 13 in ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from Winnebago County AG to I won Light industrial zoning district and a special use permit for installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks the solar panels and I won light industrial zoning district at 580 North Memorial Boulevard Place these items before you would anyone like alderwoman Trina to repeat those? So we have 13 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 13 items? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? No. No one, 8 and 12. Mayor, you just have to be viable. I'm sorry. We'll call a vote. Thank you. Could you please call the roll? Logaman. Toomber. Aye. Frost. No one, 8 and 9. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Bonney. Items 1 through 7 12 eyes item 8 10 eyes 2 nose 910 11 12 eyes item number 12 11 eyes 1 no item 13 12 eyes Thank you. My apologies next up. We'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost Thank you I number one is an ordinance approving the agreement with elite lifeline for ambulance services when the city does not have internal resources available to respond to calls for service and Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Bonnie. Aye. Twelve ayes. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. I hate to stand again, but... At this time, I would make a motion that we convene in the closed session to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logman. Tunberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. McNeely. Bunny. Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. We'll be back after a brief recess for closed session. Okay, we are now back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Maybe. Logman. Logman. Jonathan. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Is there a motion to adjourn? There is. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a good night. Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our web...