Just real quick, I want to thank our team publicly. I was part of that accreditation process. Detective Overts here works diligently in our accreditation department, research and development. So it was not just due to the work of one person, but definitely an entire team. So thank you. Thank you. Next we'll move to public hearing and I'll call on Alderman Bill Rose. Thank you, Your Honor.
 A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 511-15.1-3 for the agreement to annex for the following property. 4130 Blackhawk Road, 5845 35th Street.
 Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on October 14th, 2021. The notice informed citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, November 1st, 2021 at 530 PM. In council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall, located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois for the consideration.
 of a proposed pre-annexation agreement for 4130 Black Hawk Road, 4845 35th Street. Are there any comments or questions from the council members or, oh I'm sorry, are there any comments or questions from the council members on the pre-annexation? Are there any other questions or comments from the public? After all the questions and comments, oh sorry, this hearing is now closed. That's it.
 A little anticlimactic there. Yeah. Okay. We're moving on. Next, we'll go to petitions and communications. And before I call on Alderman, I will call on Angela Hammer. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 The Rockford Police Pension Fund Report and the Rockford Firefighters Pension Fund Report have been placed on the desks of the council members. The copies were required to be distributed to each of the aldermen pursuant to 40 ILCS 5-3-143 and 40 ILCS 5-4-134. Thank you. That sounds like a lot of fun. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Planning and Development Committee Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under petitions and communication, item number one, memorandum from Ifanyi Mogbana, city attorney regarding an extension of an agreement between the city of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of 1007 15th Street and 1233 Revell Avenue for the resident officer program or Rock House. And this is referred to the Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you. Next, we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderman rose. Thank you. Your honor. We have 2 items of member memorandum from Martin bloom project manager for permits and special events regarding the upcoming special event. For the festival of lights referred to code and regulations committee. The 2nd item is a traffic commissions agenda for the meeting to be held on November 10th.
 2021 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on November 22nd, 2021 referred to code and regulation committee. Thank you all the Monroe's next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you number 1 is a member from Carl friends and community economic development director.
 regarding 16xx north lyford road lease this will be referred to the finance and personnel committee number two is a memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding the 2022 through 2026 capital improvement program this will also be referred to finance and personnel committee and number three is memorandum from carl franzen community and economic development director regarding the release of a findings decision in order on the property located at 1226 kent street this will also be for the finance and personnel committee thank you
 thank you alderman frost next up we'll move to public speaker portion of our agenda just want to remind all of our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and on the back left of council chambers each speaker has three minutes to address the city council you will hear the obnoxious cell phone alarm which is my phone that means to bring your comments to a close our first speaker this evening is sylvia cotton oh there you go oh
 Heavenly Father, I just thank you for this, your love, your mercy, and your grace. And I thank you for this moment in time. I just want to ask a couple questions. One, does the city get more money when there's an accident or when someone gets a speeding ticket? I see officers, especially one place over on 9th Street and Harrison. There's an abandoned building there. I think it's abandoned.
 Anyway, I see officers parked in there. I don't know why they're in there. I prefer that they be out in the open because I'm really getting upset with people that are speeding and tailgating. The speed limit is posted, 30 miles an hour, and there are people going 50 miles an hour, 45 miles an hour. I know of three people that have died because of speeding.
 the accident that happened on North Main, and the two young teenagers that got killed. So I just want to read something that's from the Bible. Everyone must obey state authorities because no authority exists without God's permission. Whoever opposes the existing authority opposes what God has ordered, and anyone who does so will bring judgment on himself. Would you like to be unafraid of the man in authority? Then do what...
 then do what is good, because he is God's servant, working for your own good, who carries out God's punishment on those who do evil. In my eyes, I don't see police as heroes. They're servants. Having said that, as surely as I live, says the Lord, every knee will bow before me. Every tongue will confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. And that's everybody in here. One day, all of this is going to be gone.
 that's all i have to say thank you thank you our next public our next public speaker this evening is patty quinn whoa i'm sorry thank you your honor i want to thank the city council and the city of rockford for giving me the time to address a concern i have never in my life done something like this so i'm kind of nervous but i felt compelled to come today for just a little background
 I am a Rockford resident. I'm from the 10th Ward. I looked it up and had to figure that out, I must say. But I was born a Buckeye in Cleveland, Ohio and came to Rockford at the age of six. And I call Rockford, Illinois my home. I have the very best diverse tribe of family and friends. And my daughter is here with me today. Each and every one of us in this room have been impacted by the COVID-19 virus.
 Like many of you, I have worked full-time through the pandemic, and it's been tough, period. We also took precautions and were very afraid of it, especially at first. But now it's been 21 months and things have changed. About 11 months ago, we did get COVID, my daughter and I and my husband.
 We had the best care from Linda Raspadowski. She's an internist here in Rockford. She gave us the fastest steroids within an hour. We took Banlanbin, you know, antimicrono, blah, blah, blah. It was one of the first ones given in Winnebago County, and we appreciate that. So medical care here is really good. My sister Kathleen was in a nursing home here in Rockford, and we struggled through that. So we know how that felt, and...
 Lots of protocols were put in place and we understand why and we observed them. We also lost my sister in March of this year, not to COVID. She spent a year in a 12 by 12 room and she was not let out of that room to prevent the spread. We understand that, we don't fault anyone, but it took a toll and she did pass. I also believe that most people are so very good.
 I believe in the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. I believe that our country and nation are in a great awakening, and we're all going to have a much better time in the future. We need to make choices relative to good versus evil. My request to the Rockford City Council is to continue to keep our city safe. Mayor, if I can be bold, I looked and I saw your WGN interview in October. I listened, I heard it on the radio.
 where you were talking about mandates and masks and you were very clear and I learned your position. Where the city of Rockford does not mandate. It definitely is a proponent of vaccines and that's cool. One thing- Thank you. I got to stop. Oh shoot. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. And one of the scribes came,
 Which commandment is the first of all? And Jesus answered, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind, and strength. This is the first commandment. And the second, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. None other commandments are greater than these. The commanding priority is faith in God. From that flows the necessary and inevitable consequence, love thy neighbor. A life with no subordination is spiritual and moral chaos.
 Conduct stems from faith in God. Small behavior comes from lack of it. Great behavior springs out of it. Racism abounds in America and its small behavior. I cite the following from Chase Bank, a financial giant. The median net worth of white households is $188,000, $36,000 for Latinos, $25,000 for blacks below poverty.
 This is disgraceful and the result of immoral racism. Yet, here in Rockford and Springfield, the political and other communities, especially the black ones, seem oblivious to this data and its moral and social implications, poverty, crime, etc., and others. Whether out of ignorance, denial, or ineptitude, it is wrong and ungodly.
 I have been asked by the Chicago Renaissance Manufacturing to present a message on Wednesday to Deputy Secretary of Commerce Don Graves, a black man who will be addressing the group by Zoom on Wednesday. He wants something that will resonate in Chicago, Rockford, and across America, especially black Americans. He wants to know
 how commerce, and him in particular, can help by investing in marginalized communities, especially black ones such as Westside Rockford. My partial response, Brother Grace, given that manufacturing plays a pivotal role in any country's economy, especially in raising living standards and reducing dependence on foreign suppliers costing billions, we need only look at the debacle, supply chain debacle at American ports.
 We need access to capital and technical assistance. Our organization will be seeking from Commerce $40 million in grants to go where they like some we will seek from the state, county, and city here in Illinois for Westside Rockford. This is great behavior. A part of the Black National Anthem I love to sing is, Lift every voice and sing, till earth and heaven ring,
 ring with the harmony of liberty that our rejoicing rise is how the listening skies let it resound as loud as a rolling sea thank you our next public speaker this evening is ethan turner is ethan turner with us all right we'll come back uh the next public speaker is kenneth dickens good evening everyone
 and everyone in their respective places. It's good to see everyone. I think more than any other time that I've stood here, I spent more time going over what I was going to say based on the relevance of it and the timeliness of where we're at as a city, but also as a nation. My continued speech will be about this 53 million for a specific reason. I firmly believe that a portion of this should
 definitely be set aside for the black and Latino community because we don't know what next year may hold or the year after that and I believe that with the city being in such a fiscal a positive place that that in itself lends credibility to the fact that an area of the city that is so destitute economically deserves a portion of the money I don't think it has to prove itself I think the lack of
 of certain key elements in those areas where they're struggling are proof positive that being hit by COVID is something that we all collectively share as a city. But when you're already down and out, it stings a little bit differently. It stings a little bit deeper. I just want to quote something that the mayor had said in regards to the money.
 And these are, this is a direct quote. It can go to nonprofits. It can go to fill in revenue that the city of Rockford has lost. Say we were down in sales tax or we were down in our redevelopment fund or we were down in our parking fund. We can go back and fill in the revenue we lost there, said McNamara. Now again, as the budget is balanced, it still puts Rockford in a unique place where certain things are covered currently.
 McNamara says the money can't just go towards anything. It can only be spent on COVID related losses. Education has been severely disrupted for everyone. But talking to people in the African American community, I've talked to many mothers and many parents that are saying they are severely struggling with their children because a lot of them, and this is what I've learned recently. They're only able to help and assist their children to certain grade levels. Why?
 National landmark case, the people who care. That was a national precedent where it showed that the education in Rockford on a national level was on display to show that there was segregation in the black community in regards to equal education. So what you have is a cause and effect reaction. You have parents that are struggling after fifth grade to assist their children.
 Here's a solid point. I went to the Department of Labor. Right now they're offering $13,000 to people that are either on Medicaid or have a link or have lost their unemployment. Now, this woman sat down and she said to me that the education level that people are testing at is third grade. Thank you. Third grade in Rockford. Thank you. Is Mr. or is Ethan Turner with us? Ethan Turner. Okay. We'll move on.
 Next we'll move to new committee reports and we have no items underneath plenty and development. So we will go to code and regulation committee alderman rose. We're going to be here for a little bit item 1 committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval. Prohibiting commercial vehicles on Springbrook road from 635 feet east of McFarland road to bell school road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 2.
 The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a two-hour parking restriction on the east side of South 6th Street from 110 feet north of 2nd Avenue to 5th Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 3, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a two-hour parking restriction on the west side of South 6th Street from 180 feet north to 4th Avenue.
 North of 4th Avenue to 5th Avenue, thus repealing the existing restriction of no parking anytime on the West side of South 6th Street, half block north of 4th Avenue to 5th Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 4, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval requiring that traffic on 16th Street be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of 8th Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 5, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action being be taken on the request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of Esmond Drive and Arnold Avenue, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Esmond Drive stopping for Arnold Avenue. Item 6, the committee recommends approval of the final plat of Rockford Peaches PUD subdivisions.
 Item 7, the committee recommends approval of the pre-annexation of 4130 Blackhawk Road and 5845 35th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 8, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Section 3-54, Persons and Premises Not to be Licensed, paragraph 13.
 Number nine, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals denial for a variation to reduce the required parking spaces from 77 spaces to 64 spaces. And a variation to eliminate interior landscape islands and open green areas between a parking lot. And variation to eliminate the required shade tree requirement in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 3707 Auburn Street.
 Item 10 committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit. For a crematory in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 215 North 6th street subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 11, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural on the West wall of building in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 1631 rural street subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 12, the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant with outdoor seating in a C3 general commercial district at 6280. East state street that's the old Chicago subject to amended conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 13, the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of liquor by the drinking conjunction with a restaurant in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 4415 Harrison Avenue.
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 14, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products. In conjunction with a tobacco shop in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 3707 Auburn Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 15 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in an I-1 light industrial district and an I-2 general industrial zoning district and B the sale of tobacco products in in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in an I-1 light industrial district and I-2 general industrial zoning district at 2233 Kishwaukee Street
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And finally, item 16, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for A, the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station, convenience store, and auto mechanic shop in a C2 limited commercial district. And
 and B, the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station, convenience store, and auto mechanic shop in a C2 Limited Commercial District at 3135 North Rockton Avenue. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Wow. So we now have 16 items before us, Alderman. Is there any discussion on those 16 items?
 Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. I would request that we lay over item 9 to give me time to speak with my constituents about that matter. We have a motion to lay over item 9. Is there a second? We have a second, so that's an automatic layover this evening. Is there Alderman Toomberg? Thanks, Mayor. On item 10, is there someone here that could explain...
 That if the sign is one of the stipulations One of their their signs is that a stipulation for that sign to come down? they have two signs up along the street and one is a I don't know. I'm gonna say maybe a 15-foot sign Was that one of the stipulations to come down and I apologize for not making this call sooner during the week to find out I will turn to director Franson. I
 so i believe it is when uh you know as we uh shift into compliance with our sign ordinance uh you know we do use special use permits as a mechanism to leverage those to come into compliance so yes okay um
 Could I request this be laid over? Well, okay, hold on. I have a, before I do that, I was in contact with the individual, and they did make a case that there might be a possible safety issue with this, and I can understand his point in that the smaller sign that is for, and this is for Sunberg Funeral Home,
 i believe and when you're coming off of the whitman street interchange and coming into downtown traffic does tend to go rather fast with the current sign that is more at i guess in compliance with our city standards right now that sign alone
 not very visible when you come off the interchange onto 6th Street and with the sign that it is currently that's supposed to come down to meet this ordinance or to meet this this special use permit that that sign is very visible
 What happens is, if that sign is taken down, I think there could be a safety issue in that cars realizing that that's where the funeral home is that I need to go to, and hopefully none of us will find us as clients too soon, but that cars will tend to jam on their brakes
 to make that turn in and That could cause some accidents there, especially again coming off the interchange So I don't know if the if if that case has been made to Council I don't believe it has or to ZBA so I guess I would say I would like to lay this over if that hasn't been discussed and may I ask a
 Director Franzen, has that issue been brought up? I'm not aware of the safety issue related to the sign. Understanding that staff does promote compliance with our sign ordinance at cases that we have. Certainly the applicant at ZBA agreed to the conditions as complied here, but happy to follow up with them related to that with the layover.
 yeah please please do and again the sign has been up just for your fyi the sign has been up for i don't know 30 20 30 40 years and it does give drivers a heads up coming off that interchange that the funeral home is there so i if i could request layover on this that would be appreciated all right so we got a motion to lay over item number 10. is there a second to that
 we have a motion we have a second so that'll be laid over all right so we're whittling away at these 16 items and we got 14 items before you alderman quinones uh that was uh we requested a third word alderman thunberg that's your award right yes okay that is all right speaking for his ward no other question okay alderman frost i just for uh housekeepers uh alderman wilkins laid over i believe it was
 uh number nine and that we have a number 14 that also deals with the um same property at 3707 auburn street so uh i just make a motion also lay that matter over as well there's a motion and a second to lay over item 14 as well holderman bonnie thank you mayor regarding number eight it was
 stated in committee that the current person's not to be licensed provision that we have is more restrictive than the state law and it didn't get asked and why does anybody know why then do we have a more restrictive ordinance and I assume it's probably been on the books a long long time and no one may know the answer mr. Cagnone
 You know, I can't give a detailed answer to that because I don't know the specifics personally. I understand it was amended more than a decade ago to be more restrictive than the state statute, but I don't know the policy discussion that took place at that time. Sorry. Okay. Okay.
 i i am concerned about the we we've had a sim we've had before us and had removed from tonight's agenda a similar uh or another amendment to the liquor code that had raised objections from a couple of aldermen that it was based that who were concerned that we were making an amendment to our liquor code uh largely based on the request of a single
 business owner and we appear to have the same situation with this except we're talking about a single employee and I would like to see these those two issues considered together so we can address that that apparent inconsistency and
 So I'm curious to know what is the status of Sip and Shop? Is it going back to committee? Is it coming back to the council? Mr. Cagnone? Thank you, Your Honor. It's not on the agenda this evening. It could be placed on the agenda at the next regularly scheduled council meeting, and then it would be at the discretion of council if they wanted to approve it, deny it, refer it back to committee, or lay it over.
 So once it's back on the agenda, it'll be at the discretion of council in regards to how they want to proceed. Based on our conversations with a number of the elected officials, did not feel that there was sufficient support for the license. So that's why it wasn't on the agenda this evening. Follow-up, Alderman Bonney? I'll yield. I'm good for now.
 just so I am clear are you making a motion to lay item 8 over or well I would prefer to refer it back to committee but if we can't get them both to committee with the same motion since it's been removed from the agenda then I'd like to either get them both back to committee or both so if you laid this item over now that means that they'll both come back more than likely on the same agenda if that's the case then yes I would move to lay this over
 Okay. Is there a second to that? I'll second it. There's a motion, there's a second, so now we're whittling this away, guys. That's been laid over. So we have 12 items before us, and Alderman McNeely, did you have a... Thank you. On item 8, I would like to understand... On item 8? Pardon me? I'm sorry, did you say on item 8? Yes. That's why I was closing. I didn't know that wasn't aware of that. That's been laid over now, but what's your question?
 We didn't vote for a layover. It's automatically laid over with two aldermen. All right. That's why I was quiet. You can bring it forward. That's fine. I'd like to understand Alderman Bonney's comparison of the two items, the item that's not on the agenda in item 8. I'm not following what you had stated earlier.
 well we've had when when the sip and chop was up we've had two alder we've had two aldermen who who have made statements to the effect that this wouldn't be before the council if it was coming up out of their wards i think they may need to explain for themselves what they mean by that but now we have a very similar situation where we have the apparent motivation for this proposed
 change in our ordinance is the request by a single employee who has a who owns a property that has a liquor application pending right now and I don't know how we why would why it would be a concern to amend the liquor ordinance in one case because the request comes from a single individual and to not be concerned about it in this case thank you
 Any other discussion now on the 12 items before us clerk? Could you please call the roll alderman Durkee? Logaman Toomer frost Tarina printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's Meeks McNeely, Bonnie M's 1 through 5 14 eyes item number 6 12 eyes to nose item 7 14 eyes item
 Item 11, 12, 14, ayes. Item 13, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item 15A, 13 ayes, 1 no. And item 16A, 13 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Those items passed. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number 1, the committee recommends approval of vouchers, the amount of 9,129,078 dollars. And 26 cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting on October 25 2021. Number 2, the committee recommends approval of the release of liens to facilitate the action auction of the window county trustee properties to the highest bidders.
 For the following properties 814 lap court 824 lap court 812 Haskell Avenue 707 North sunset 439 underwood street. 1009 Willard Avenue with 1316 12th Avenue. 914 North day Avenue 620 super Avenue and 929 Harding street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you alderman frost. So we have 2 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 2 items?
 clerk could you please call the roll durkee hi logan hi tumber hi frost tarina runty wilkins hoffman rose beach quinones meeks mcneely and bonnie item number one 14 eyes item number two 12 eyes one no one of stain thank you next up we have appointments laid over and we have
 17 items before you. Jerry accrued up to the Community Relations Commission for a three-year term expiring October 2024. Victoria De La Rosa to the Community Relations Commission for a three-year term expiring 2024. William Martin to the Community Relations Commission for a three-year term expiring 2024. Thank you.
 Matt not to the Electrical Commission for a three-year term expiring 2024 Brad Williams to the Electrical Commission for a three-year term Expiring October 2024 Kerry Haggerty to the fire pension board to for a three-year term expiring October 2024
 Maureen Kirschman to the Historical Preservation Commission for a three-year term expiring October 2024. Dennis Horton to the Library Board for a three-year term expiring June 2024. Molly Brawns to the Library Board for a three-year term expiring June 2024.
 Jamie Getches to the Library Board for a three-year term expiring June 2024. Mark Buckner to the Mechanical Board for a five-year term expiring October 2026. James Zwiep to the Mechanical Board for a five-year term expiring 2026. Marsha Mueller to the Police Pension Fund Board for a two-year term expiring October 2023.
 David Sidney to the Rockford Mass Transit District Board for a four-year term expiring 2025. Kay Patrick Yarbrough to the Traffic Commission for a five-year term expiring October 2026. Don Bissell to the Traffic Commission for a five-year term expiring October 2026. Maurice Redd to the LTAB and ZBA boards for a five-year term expiring October 2026.
 There are 17 items before you is there any discussion on those 17 items alderman Durkee. Thank your honor on Sharia Crudup, she's also applying for a regrowth grant Which is given by the Community Relations Commission and she also runs an LC 3 which is a for-profit so either that I would assume that either the grant application has to go or
 Or this appointment has to be withdrawn. I think it's a conflict. So she has abstained on all of the items and or not attended those meetings that they've done, the regrow grant applications? I still think it's a conflict. That's just my comment. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg.
 Thank you, Mayor. On item 10, Jamie Goetjes, I'd just like to speak on behalf of Mr. Goetjes. We have a lot of items going forth regarding the library, and the mayor and I were privileged enough to be down there for the groundbreaking. There's a lot of moving parts regarding this endeavor,
 and I think stability on this board is imperative. We have a new individual coming in, Mr. Dennis Horton. I know Dennis, I think he's a great individual and will be a nice addition to the board. But with all the workings that are going on right now with the library, I think it's imperative to have that stability.
 and mr getchas i think it provides that i did make a call to the president of the foundation uh mr tony gasparini who
 I had the privilege to sit next to for a little bit. Well are none other than alderman logum in was gone working for our country and As much as I enjoy having alderman logum in sitting next to me and I welcome him back almost every day It was I think Alderman Gasparini did a great job in his absence, but Mr. Gasparini
 had nothing, but accolades for Jamie getches on the library board. I also made a call to another board member Brad long and Brad actually mentioned that Jamie is probably the most thorough and attentive and and diligent in his preparedness for the meetings there is preparation for the meetings and
 I also gave a call to President of the Board, Paul Loglie, the none other than Paul Loglie. He had nothing but accolades and said that it would be a travesty if Mr. Goetsches was not able to be on the Board any longer.
 just wanted to mention that he is a veteran also which we recognized tonight and does have a pretty impressive and extensive resume so thank you thank you thank you alderman Torino and first Thank You mr. mayor my statement is just more of a comment as we look at this list of
 17 we know one got voted in so there's 18 individuals a lot of these are reappointments So a lot of these are getting a lot of these individuals are getting Three to five year terms extended which means they've already served three to five years so what I know personally from spending time on nonprofit boards is that sometimes your ideas get a little old and sometimes
 Boards just need fresh insight and fresh individuals. And while I will be voting to move all of these forward, I do think that we should consider in the future the importance of these boards and how we're appointing people to sit on them for eight to 10 to 12 years, when we could perhaps look at trying to reinvigorate, rejuvenate some of these boards with some fresh insight from the community.
 just because so many of these organizations just are really impactful to the community as a whole. So just something for us to consider in the future is maybe the terms of some of these appointments. Thank you. Any other comments? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I couldn't agree with Alderman Torino, Torina more so.
 I've stated that in the past and I still believe that Within the city of Rockford There are thousands of individuals that would be very good on boards For the city and provide new insight as to each board and what we should have I have concerns regarding the Community Relations Commission as Ottoman Durkhe has stated and I do think that I
 Alderman, well he used to be alderman, Jamie Gretches, and he is quite conscientious, so I know that he would be good, but it does put me in an awkward position because I came here prepared to not vote for any of these. Not because of the individuals per se, but because we're not reaching out and finding those other individuals in the community that would be an asset to all of these boards.
 So I appreciate Alderman Tarina and Alderman Durkee's comments. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. No 1, 1. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. No 1, 1. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney.
 item number one 10 eyes four nose items two through 17 13 eyes one no excellent we'll move forward uh next we'll go to motions and resolutions we'll go to planning and development committee alderman meeks thank you your honor under planning and development committee item number one
 The committee recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission's approval of the 10,000 Rockford Re-Grow Grant Award to Awaken Foundation L3C, Facts to Hardhats. Item number two, committee recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission's approval of the 10,000 Rockford Re-Grow Grant Award to African American Resource Center at Booker, Flourish, Start Strong, Finish Strong.
 Item number three, committee recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission's approval of the 10,000 Rockford Re-Grow grant award to Discovery Center Museum of Rockford, National Society of Black Engineers, Rockford Chapter, STEM on the Rock.
 Community recommends item number four committee recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission's approval of the ten thousand dollar Rockford Regrow grant award to Rockford regional Hispanic Chamber of Commerce the seat of change item number five the committee recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission's approval of the ten thousand Rockford Rego grant award to Christian Union Church Concerned citizens United for self-improvement community kitchen item number six the
 Committee recommends approval of the 10,000 Rockford regrow grant award to acclimated conscious coaching item number seven Committee recommends sustaining the Community Relation Commission's recommend recommendation for the following $50,000 regrow grant applications for tier 2 evaluation a new genres art space a
 fairgrounds boys and girls club digital fairgrounds and innovative art and technology after school program b torito arts nfp social equity and civic engagement through the performing arts c 815 alive inc 815 alive toolbox 815 alive renegade football team
 D, Beacon of Enlightenment and Lantern Therapy, addressing wounds of trauma caused by cannabis policy and violence. E, KEA Publishing, the Empower Couple Project Class. And F, Comprehensive Community Solutions Alpha Project.
 If approved, the six finalists will be invited to submit a Tier 2 application providing additional details, documentation, and will give a full presentation of their proposed project to the Community Relations Commission. In Item 8, Commission recommends sustaining the Community Relations Commission's recommendation for the following $150,000 re-grow grant applications for Tier 2 evaluation.
 A, Southwest Ideas for Today and Tomorrow, SWIFT. Tabs Property Investors Inc, Petro Family Community Center for at-risk youth. B, Synergy Production Group, LLC, doing business as Lux Academy of Barbering and Beauty and Lux on Alpine Salon and Barber Lounge. And State Line Barber Association, Re-Grow Synergy.
 And CYMCA of Rock River Valley Youth Education and Equity Center. If approved, the three finalists will be invited to submit a Tier 2 application providing additional details, documentation, and will give a full presentation of their proposed project to the Community Relations Commission. And then item number nine.
 The committee recommends approval of the proposed request to the U.S. Economic Development Administration for the defederalization of the city's revolving loan fund. And then last but not least, item number 10, the committee recommends approval of deferment and forgiveness of the CBDG COVID-related microenterprise loans subject to conditions. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderwoman Meeks. We have 10 items before us, counsel. Is there any discussion on those 10 items? Alderwoman McNeely? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number 10, I want to make sure that I understood correctly last week that all of the individuals that applied for the microenterprise loans will be included in this forgiveness.
 Of the loans director franson, correct all uh All recipients of our micro enterprise loans for the covet relief funds from the cdbg funds are eligible for forgiveness And that would include any that were Given over to a third party on behalf of the city to to lend out There were no Loans that were administered on a third party basis. Okay. Thank you very much Thank you mayor
 Just to be very clear you asked all those who applied you answered all those that received It's obviously just those have received correct. Well my mistake I've met received. Thank you any other discussion? otherman Beach Thank you. Our number one your honor The awakened foundation was before us earlier this year on the culinary school was any money at all Given to them. I don't think the thing went through. No, no. Thank you very much. Yep. I
 Is there any other discussion on the 10 items that are before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Are you ready? No. No on page 7B and C. Item 7 is grouped together. Do you just want to say no? No, so item 7 is grouped together. So that's just asking, stating can this group move forward together. So item...
 We can separate. Let's give the clerk a moment to get that prepared so it's easier for her. Okay, can you repeat the numbers for seven that you did not want? A, B, C. Our no's. Our no's. Okay, thank you. Alderman Logerman. Aye. Alderman Toonburton. Frost. No on five. What was the last thing you said? No on eight. I'm eight. I apologize. One second. Take your time.
 alderman frost that was no one seven b and e correct okay alderman terena abstain on item a six i on the rest alderman prenti aye wilkins aye hoffman aye rose aye beach no one a1 i am the roof you know us alderman quinones aye thank you alderman meeks that was an eye mcmillie hi bonnie hi
 item number one 12 eyes two nose items two and three 14 eyes item number four 13 eyes one no item number five it's 11 eyes three nose item six 12 eyes one no one abstain item seven a is 13 eyes item 7 b is 12 eyes two nose item c
 13 ayes 1 no item D 13 ayes 1 no item e 12 ayes 2 noes item F 14 ayes items 8 a 14 ayes item 8 B 13 ayes 1 no 8 C 14 I'm sorry 9 and 10 14 ayes just impressive
 Thank you. Those items pass next we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman rose. Thank you your honor item one The committee recommends approval of the 2022 City Council and committees calendar schedule Item two is the committee recommends approval of the dasher dash. This event is scheduled for Saturday, November 27th 2021 from 11 a.m. To 1 1 30 p.m Step off time is at noon
 The race will be contained within the footprint of Stroll on State Festival. The festival is being held downtown Rockford, bordered by Jefferson Street, Church Street, Chestnut Street, Green Street, and 3rd Street. And then finally, item 3, the committee recommends approval of the snow market. This event is scheduled for Friday, December 17th, Saturday, December 18th, and Sunday, December 19th.
 From 3 to 9 p.m. the event will be held in Municipal Lot 31 behind the Norwegian located at 1402 North Main Street. Excellent. Thank you, Alderman Rose. We have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonney? Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the demolition of 1126 10th Street to Dales Plumbing of Rockford in the amount of $85,903. The funding sources, the construction services division operating budget. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for the HUD emergency solutions grant to youth services network.
 $30,000 for emergency shelter operations to remedy shelter, $5,000 for emergency shelter operations to the institute for community alliances, $30,000 for the homeless management information system and shelter care ministries, and $39,790 for emergency shelter operations and services.
 The contract duration is two years. The funding source is the HUD Emergency Solutions Grant. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of the non-competitive contract for phone system hardware replacement and software upgrade to Sentinel Technologies of Downers Grove in the amount of $258,921. The contract duration is two years. The funding source is the Information Technology Operating Budget.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of a change order for the fiber installation and enhanced radio system equipment to TC Communications of Irving, California. The original amount was approximately $288,000. There was a change order of $77,495.00.
 For an amended amount of $365,890 over five years. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the carryover request for CARES Act funding for the Head Start, Early Head Start grant in the amount of $327,071. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the Illinois Association of Community Action Agencies' Employment Barrier Reduction Pilot Grant.
 In the amount of $112,500, the grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from signature date to June 30, 2022.
 Number seven is this committee recommends approval of the proposed resolution to rebate 50% of the liquor license fee for bars and restaurants as Business assistance program for those bars and restaurants with a liquor license for the sale of liquor by the drink Including beer and wine by the drink I place these seven items before you Thank You alderman frost So council we have seven items before us. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Turkey
 Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Prenti? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonney? Aye. Items 1, 2, 14 ayes. Item 3, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 4, 5, 6, and 7, 14 ayes.
 Excellent those items passed next we'll go to a new business. We have nothing under planning and development So we'll go to court and Code and Regulation Committee alderman rose Thank you your honor number one in ordinance prohibiting commercial vehicles on Springbrook Springbrook Road from 635 feet east of McFarland Road to Bell School Road
 Two, an ordinance establishing a two-hour parking restriction on the east side of South 6th Street from 110 feet north of 2nd Avenue to 5th Avenue. Three, an ordinance establishing a two-hour parking restriction on the west side of South 6th Street from 180 feet north of 4th Avenue to 5th Avenue. Thus repealing the existing restriction of no parking any time on the west side of 6th Street, a half block north of 4th Avenue to 5th Avenue.
 Four, an ordinance approving the traffic on 16th Street be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of 8th Avenue. Five, an ordinance approving the pre-annexation of 4130 Blackhawk Road and 5845 35th Street. I believe number six was held over. Okay. Seven, an ordinance approving a special use permit. That's laid over as well. Okay. So that one's laid over. So is 11. Yes, correct. An ordinance approving...
 I'm sorry number eight and ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on the west wall of building of a building in a C3 general commercial zoning district. At 1631, rural street number 9 and ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with restaurant with outdoor seating in the C3 general commercial district at 62 80 East state street.
 Number 10, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 4415 Harrison Avenue. 11 was laid over. 12, an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in an I1 light industrial district, an I2 general industrial zoning district at 2233 Kishwaukee Street.
 13 in ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in an I-1 light industrial district and I-2 general industrial zoning district at 2233 Kishwaukee Street. I believe that one's good. An ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station convenience store and auto mechanic shop in a C2 limited commercial district at 3135 North Rockton Avenue was number 14.
 Item 15, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station convenience store and auto mechanic shop in a C2 Limited Commercial District at 3135 North Rockton Avenue. And then finally, number, oh, that's it. Thank you. So we have now 12 items since three were laid over before us. Is there any discussion on those 12 items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logaman. Toonberg. Aye. Aye.
 Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Items one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, 14 ayes. Item 10, 13 ayes, one no. Item 12, 13 ayes, one no. Item 13, 14 ayes. Item 14, 13 ayes, one no. Item 15, 14 ayes. Thank you.
 Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. As one matter, it is an ordinance approving the release of liens to facilitate the auction of Winnebago County trustee properties to the highest bidders.
 For the following properties 814 lap court 824 lap court 812 Haskell Avenue 707 North Sunset 439 Underwood Street 1009 Willard Avenue 1316 12th Avenue 914 North Day Street 620 Soper Avenue and 929 Harding Street places one item before you Thank You Alderman frost So council there's one item before you is there any discussion on that one item? I?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Tarina. Aye. Alderman Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. Excellent. Before adjournment, I skipped over and inadvertently the officers' reports. Is there an alderman who has officers' reports? Alderman Rose.
 thank you your honor i um i just wanted to commend the rockford airport authority and their board members on uh coming to some resolution on the uh bell bowl prairie uh
 preservation. I think it a lot of times organizations, especially government organizations come under a lot of criticism for not listening to the people. And I just wanted to commend them on moving forward with holding off on those on the.
 construction project and actually listening to the residents and conservationists on it. I think it says a lot about their board, and I think giving them the due credit that they deserve on listening is something that we should celebrate. Thank you. Other Alderman Quinonez? Yes, I want to thank you, Mayor, for showing up at the Veterans Stand Down Friday and showing your support for the veterans. They really appreciate it.
 i hope everyone understands that alderman kinyonis's father is a world war ii veteran and it was a true honor to meet him and to see you there as well so really it was it was a special day for me that i got to meet him so thank you alderman mcneely thank you
 Mr. Mayor, I just would like to announce that next Wednesday on the 3rd, no that's this Wednesday on the 3rd, I'm having a town hall meeting here at City Hall regarding the violence here in the city. So I invite everyone to come out, let's hear what you have to say, let's hear your suggestions, and let me bring it before this body. Thank you. Thanks.
 other woman wilkins thank you your honor um i just wanted to extend a big thank you um to all those who participated in the halloween bash this weekend really all over the the ward um so first i'll start out by thanking love and loyalty and tony turner for their events we actually spoke before anything took place so we made sure no events were overlapping in the ward so we worked together with that and i was
 It was a good turnout for all three events that happened to Ward 7 this weekend. Beyond that, I'd like to thank Mayor McNamara and Maurice West for helping me sponsor for the Halloween bash for the right way. His team, Northwest Community Center, TNT Funnel Cakes, everything smacking.
 uh tim neighbors county board member tim neighbors um ccs kathy tall alderman rose for coming out jennifer leone washington park community center janine stevenson the mont jones and the rockford park district and the 360 photo booth we had a little bit over a thousand people come over
 out on Saturday. It was crazy but phenomenal to see everyone just come and have a good time. There were no bad incidents whatsoever in the ward all weekend so I appreciate everyone who had a hand in that. Even Mrs. Meeks had a chance to come in a little bit before her event on Saturday so I appreciate it. It was definitely love filled and it was expressed to us that it was felt when they came out so thank you all.
 It was an awesome event except my kids got far too much candy that night They did not sleep Alderman to Burke. Thanks mayor. I would like to thank state rep Vela and Senator Stadelman for at the last minute including in the reimagining electric vehicles in Illinois Act at the last minute they were able to get a
 electric motorcycles put in there which were for some reason excluded and as a motorcycle rider and bicycle rider I have diversity in two wheels so the uh but as a member of a bait which is a brotherhood aimed towards education which I'm a member of uh
 I thank them for getting that included at the last minute and helping you push that through and shepherd it through. So thank you to both of those and I assume State Rep West was on board. I didn't check but I assume he was.
 It's a really important piece of legislation, not just because of it includes motorcycles, but really important all of our local delegations support it, but certainly Stadelman and the Senate and Bella and the House were leaders in it, has potentially significant ramifications, positive for Stellantis, the Belvedere Chrysler plant, and helping lower to transition that facility
 into an electric vehicle facility and get that back to three shifts. So that could be very significant for not just Belvedere, but obviously our whole region. Alderwoman Meeks. I just wanted to commend Rockford United Labor's President Sarah Dorner. On Friday, I attended the RUL recognition dinner. This was my, I think this was my first time attending this dinner. They couldn't hold it last year due to,
 But it was a wonderful event. I learned a lot about the electric vehicles and the bill with Dave Vela who invited me to that event. So I just want to commend them for bringing a lot of just wonderful labor stories for that event. And I was just really happy to be in attendance. So just want to draw attention to that event. Absolutely. It was a great event.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you. I forgot to mention that on Wednesday the event is at 5 30 and it will be in person as well as by zoom if you go to the city website there's a location where you can join by zoom. Thank you. Any other officers reports? Is there a motion to adjourn?
 Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Anyone want to discuss that? No? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Have a wonderful night.