regularly scheduled Monday, November 4th, 2019 City Council meeting. I would just ask that
 Number one, everyone needs to be seated. Number two, those who are in the walkways, we have turned on the TV down in the lobby so that you can monitor the activities that are going on. I will tell you as we go through these proclamations, we will have people come in and then leave so there will be more room available for you very shortly before we get to the meat of the agenda in case you need additional seating. Thank you.
 So with that being said, I will call Chaplain Norma Barrero here to provide us our invocation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we just ask for your presence through your wisdom, through your knowledge, through your resolution, for everything that's on the agenda today, Lord, and we just give this meeting to you to better the city of Rockford and its citizens. In your name we pray.
 I pledge allegiance to the United States of America and to the Republic for the liberty and justice for our country. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gasparini. Gasparini. Thunberg. Here. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 present. Thank you. So we have a quorum for tonight's meeting.
 A motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on October 21st, 2019. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on October 28th, 2019? So moved. Second.
 We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign.
 Thank you. So before we get to the proclamation, I just want to recognize a number of really important and special guests that we have. We have 15 students and two teachers from our visiting sister city, Ferentino, Italy, that's been a sister city with the city of Rockford since 2006. So I just want to say welcome to the city of Rockford and thank you for being here. This is
 relationship means a great deal to the city of Rockford on a number of levels. So thank you so much for traveling here and we're excited to have you in our city. Thank you. I will just let the alderman also know that you do not want to get into a spirited question and answer session with them. They will call you out and tell you when you did not answer their question fully.
 But we had a great opportunity to meet with them upstairs for about a half hour. It was really delightful and really appreciate, again, you taking the time to be here. It means a lot to us, so thank you. Next up, we're going to move to proclamations, and we have three proclamations this evening. First proclamation that we have this evening is for the Friends of the Coronado Day. I believe we have a number of people with us.
 Whereas in 1995, under the auspices of the Rockford Area Arts Council, and at the invitation of the Rockford City Mayor, Charles Box, a group of concerned citizens began a feasibility study to investigate the possibility of renovating the Coronado Theater in a public-private partnership. And whereas, following the feasibility study, Mayor Box appointed a committee and co-chairs, Mary Ann and Gordy Smith.
 to manage and raise private funding for the project. And whereas, the Friends of the Coronado Foundation, a grassroots 501c3 nonprofit organization founded in 1997, initiated and managed a capital campaign that resulted in an $18.5 million renovation, restoration, and 2001 reopening of the historic Coronado Theater.
 And whereas, in 2002 the Friends of the Coronado Foundation was awarded the prestigious National Preservation Award by the National Trust of Historic Preservation for skillfully converting the Coronado Theater from a grand movie palace to a successful performing arts center.
 And whereas the Friends of the Coronado have remained devoted to the Coronado Theater with energy and resources dedicated to meticulous historic preservation, community education, and outreach programming. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the Mayor of the City of Rockford do hereby proclaim November 12th, 2019 to be the Friends of the Coronado Day, and I would just say, I would
 I was not instrumentally involved or involved at all in that coming together, but I just want to say I really think how citizens came together in that public-private partnership is something really special. And I think it really says a lot about
 Really the values of the city of Rockford and I do know the mission of the organization and to see it being lived out every day that just means a great deal and I Don't want to take away from what will be mentioned today, but We continue to see efforts made so that every single Citizen who calls Rockford home and goes through our Rockford public school system has that opportunity to see this magnificent theater So that's what you like to share a few words. I
 So this is a tremendous honor for us and we want to give this to the city. These are pictures of some lovely children that were in here just a few weeks ago and they come in in our classroom project. But I wanted to share with you in the next three weeks we will have 8,000 children in the Coronado Theater absolutely free of charge.
 And the reason we do go to this effort of making it free of charge is so 100% of the Rockford public school children and all school children are not turned away for economic reasons. We are very honored to be here tonight and receive this. And of course, we have Mary Ann Smith, who led this restoration here tonight. Thank you.
 We have a wonderful board, and we continue to do everything we can for the Coronado and for this city, and we're very devoted, and thank you so much for this honor. Which day is it? It's actually on the 12th.
 So on the 12th, we will have the Ailey. I left a program for you. We've made this evening performance on the 11th completely free of charge to the community, which is a first time for the Cornell that we're aware of. And then the next day, 2,000 fourth graders from Marford Public Schools will come to the same performance. So it's a big three weeks for us, but thank you so much for believing in us, and we continue to do all we can for the community.
 I will say if you want to see young people's faces totally lit up, come to Reach for the Stars because when they first walk through those doors of the theater, many have never seen it, and it really is one of my favorite mornings of the year. So next up, we have an Epilepsy Awareness Month, and we have Mary Orlandi and Dawn Lay with us. All right.
 Whereas Epilepsy Foundation of North Central Illinois, Iowa, and Nebraska is celebrating more than 40 years of service to the Rockford area, the mission of the Epilepsy Foundation is to ensure that people with seizures are able to participate in all of life's experiences.
 and will prevent, control, and cure epilepsy through services, education, advocacy, and research. And whereas there are approximately 65 million people who have epilepsy worldwide, and 1 in 10 people will have had a seizure in their lifetime. And whereas with nearly 150,000 annual new cases in the United States, it is important for the Epilepsy Foundation to increase seizure education and awareness.
 And whereas, in conjunction with other national organizations and in cities around the country, the Epilepsy Foundation hopes to use this month to spread awareness and education throughout the community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of November to be Epilepsy Awareness Month. Yes, because...
 She was diagnosed at 2. I was told she wouldn't see 13. She'll be 49 in February. God is so good. God is so good. I said many times on Facebook that when November comes, you've been warned. I share every day, 365 days a year. Doesn't have to be November because epilepsy affects us January through December. And if you don't like it, unfriend me. Don't like it? Too bad.
 It's part of my life, it's been part of my life, and it will continue until I take my last breath of air. And the star of Hamilton just lost his little girl. And I give him a lot of credit for saying she had epilepsy and it wasn't a brain disorder.
 It takes a lot of courage to say that because when Dawn was first diagnosed, she had a seizure disorder because of that stigma that goes with it. I'm trying to erase that. If I can erase it with one person, then I've done my job as a mom. And thank you, Mayor McNamara. Sorry this happened, but this is our life. Mayor, you've done a phenomenal job. Don't apologize for a single thing.
 We do, but both you and Dawn, I mean, we really look forward to seeing you every year, and we appreciate all the work that you do 365 days a year. And it looks beautiful, so thanks for being here. Appreciate it. It's Brandy Gardner here. We have Narcissist Awareness Month.
 Whereas narcissist personality disorder is a mental health condition in which people have an inflated sense of their own importance, a deep need for excessive attention and admiration, troubled relationships, and a lack of empathy for others. And whereas narcissists have a pattern of grandiose beliefs and behave in an arrogant and haughty manner that cause problems with relationships, work,
 school, and social interactions. And whereas people with narcissistic behavior may sometimes expect special treatment or become abusive by manipulating others and making false accusations. And whereas by being reluctant to accept consequences for their behavior, some narcissists are prone to criminal activity. And whereas with many mental health disorders, counseling and support groups,
 often have the greatest impact on behavioral change. And whereas, From the Ground Up is a local support group that assists individuals with resources, transformation, mentoring, and outreach. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of November 2019 to be Narcissist Awareness Month. Would you like to share a few words? Thank you. Amen.
 I want to first state that from the ground up, it's just a part of link between crisis and greatness. We thank you. But most of all, we thank God. We, I thank God. We thank God for founding the earth and for setting its measures and for stretching and measuring our
 A lion across it, we thank God for barcading the sea behind doors and for knowing where and when to stop the proud waves. We thank God. We thank God for commanding the morning and for letting the dawn know its place.
 I thank God for Job chapter 38 and for taking hold of the ends of the earth and shaking the wicked out of it. For your word that states, oh God, that the light of the wicked is held back from them and their uplifted arm is broken. We thank you, God, for exploring the deep waters, the gates of death and deep darkness, and for being aware of the vast expanse of the earth, Lord.
 You know where the light and the darkness reside. Age ain't nothing to you and your greatness. You know all about the storehouses for the snow and the hail. You cut a channel for the flood and made a path for the thunderous storm cloud to make it rain where no one lives, to satisfy devastated wastelands and to cause the grass to sprout.
 You can raise your voice to the clouds to cause a flood of water to cover us. You send out lightning bolts and they honor your command. You put wisdom in the clouds and you know how many they are.
 and who tip over water jars in heaven. You know when the young ravens wonderin' because there's nothin' to eat and you hear they cry and you make supplication for them. So the council, especially Autumn and Magneely, I wanna call them Brother Western, we thank you. Mayor, we thank you. I thank you. We thank our specialist, Toni Thomas. She is a, she is our specialist for this and she has a bachelor's degree
 in behavior science and she is a licensed child welfare specialist. When I moved here I had no idea that I would be able to not only know what my what my purpose is without a doubt but also I had no idea that I would be able to
 allow, I would be able to allow God to operate in it as well as operate in it. I want to thank the man who gave me my first job when I moved here to Rockford, Henry Turgerson. I was married, pregnant with two, with both of my children, walking past cornfields, felt like I was walking through them to get to work. Mother Goldsmith, David Goldsmith, for showing me change, teaching me about patience, and for coming in my dressing room right before I speak at the Norloff Center telling me not to be afraid.
 I never thought I would, never thought the worst, the worst relationship I've ever had. Can I say that again? Thank you. The worst relationship I've ever had would cause me to be where I am right now today. I want to thank Beautiful Beginnings for their resources, constant support, and this hairdo that I almost knocked over when I got in the car. Amen.
 To Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. for teaching me how real deep love unleashes divine power in our situations, endurance, and trials and tribulations. Quick words to any narcissist. From Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Out of a mountain of despair, a stone of hope. Quick words to any victims of narcissistic, of the narcissism.
 From Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., If you can't fly, then run. If you can't run, then walk. If you can't walk, then crawl. But whatever you do, you must keep moving forward. Quick words to leaders. By Albert Einstein, The world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing nothing. Quick words to all of us by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Darkness does not drive out darkness, only the light can do that. Hate does not drive out hate, only love can do that. The gift that every challenge brings, Lisa Nichols,
 An even stronger relationship between my mother and I. We are sisters in war. My best friend Albert, my confidant, for sometimes standing for me and with me. The jewels in my crown, Willie and Diamond Brown. Henry Johnson, a man that fought in the war in 1918 but was awarded his Medal of Honor on June 2, 2015, nearly 100 years after his death.
 he wrote it combat feats in france taught me to continue being great no matter what prophet yusuf and his wife assuring me the power of standing together staying together to all of you who's standing with me in this matter and to maya angelo for telling me
 that even when the narcissists may shoot us with their words, cut us with their eyes, kill part of us, or kill part of our lives with their hatefulness, like air will rise. Out of the huts of history, shame, rise. Up from a past rooted in pain, rise.
 to become a black ocean leaping and wide, welling and swelling to bear the tide. How to leave behind nights of terror and fear to rise into a daybreak that's wondrously clear to rise. Bringing the gifts that our ancestors gave, I am the dream and the hope of the slave. And so naturally, I rise. We rise. We rise. Thank you. I thank God for Sister Brandy.
 In the book of Proverbs, the 18th chapter, the 24th verse, it says, Show thyself friendly, and there's a friend that'll sit closer than a brother. I want to give you this certificate of achievement. This certificate is proudly presented to Brandy Godwin. Well, being an educator...
 for narcissus awareness. You are a force to be recognized with and it's also from my good friend Pastor Albert Smith. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Next up this evening we have a public hearing that's being called by Alderman John Beck. Thank you your honor.
 Hereby I call the public hearing and imposed 2020 budget and appropriation ordinance to order pursuant to 65, Illinois compiled statutes 5 slash
 8-2-9-2006, a public hearing must be conducted by the City Council prior to the adoption of an appropriation ordinance. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on October 25, 2019. That notice informed citizens of Rockford that a copy of the proposed budget and appropriation ordinance could be reviewed in the Finance Department, 3rd floor, City Hall, 425 East State Street.
 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. The proposed budget was also available online on the city's website. Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed appropriation ordinance? Okay, this public hearing is adjourned. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Moving on, will you have petitions and communications? And the Planning and Development Committee has no report. I do not see it.
 And we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Shirell. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have one item. It's the Traffic Commission Agenda for the meeting to be held on November 13, 2019. And the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on November 25, 2019. I refer that to the Codes and Regs Committee, Your Honor. Thank you.
 thank you alderman trelli next up we have finance and personnel committee alderman beck thank you your honor we have a memorandum from wayne dust planning contractor and robert wahomey brownsfield real development specialist regarding the preparation and submittal the us epa grant applications commitment to provide the local match for cleanup grants
 And we have the memorandum from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director, regarding an application for federal grant funds for the annual continuation of Head Start and early Head Start services for the period of April 1, 2020 through March 31, 2021. And both of these items will be referred to finance personnel. Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. Next up, we have public speakers. I just want to remind the public speakers that there's microphones on the back right and back left of the city council chambers. Each speaker is allotted three minutes, and then I'll ask that you finish up. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 19th chapter, the 20th verse, written by a wise man named Solomon,
 It says, listen to advice and accept instruction, and in the end you will be wise. What I want to speak about tonight, why veterans commit suicide. There are 15 reasons, and I have the solution to solve this problem in the United States. The first cause is hopelessness. The second cause is despair.
 and despair is the mother of suicide. The third cause is relationship problems. The fourth cause drug addiction. The fifth cause alcohol addiction. The sixth cause mental illness. The seventh cause unemployment. The eighth cause financial problems. The ninth cause is homelessness. The tenth cause health problems. The eleventh cause is poverty. The twelfth cause is legal trouble. The thirteenth cause is sleep deprivation. The fourteenth cause veterans who have many depraved
 deployments in a combat zone. The 15 caused veterans to have guns in their homes that are loaded and not put in a safe. A 2010 study of the Israeli Defense Force found that suicide dropped 50% when in 2006
 were banned from the then common practice of bringing their rifles home at the end of the day. And more than 60% of United States veterans commit suicide at home with a personally owned firearm. Veterans experience a mental health crisis. I want you to call the Veterans Crisis Line. It's open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at 1-800-273-8255 and select option 1 for VA staff. I guarantee you
 If you eliminate these 15 things, you can eliminate veteran suicide in the United States. I also been wanting to tell Tim Hanson this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it, and happy birthday my good friend, and I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you.
 you happy birthday to you happy birthday my good friend mr tim hesson happy birthday to you thank you for allowing me to speak thank you our next uh thank you next uh public speaker is flossy horton good evening to the honorable mayor mcnamara to the city of fisher to the city council if i was preaching tonight i would title this message what's going on
 The late, great Marvin Gaye had lyrics to a song, What's Going On, that went like this. Mother, mother, mother, there's too many of you crying. Brother, brother, brother, there's too many of you dying. You know we've got to find a way to bring some love in here today. What's going on? What's going on? Why would I mention this song?
 It alludes to the fact that what's happening in the city of Rockford and throughout this country. What's going on with the number of young people dying in our country? Especially African American males right here in the city of Rockford. Why are we concerned at the number of young men dying and still going to college, pursuing a career, being a positive role model in our community?
 What's going on when the very people that we have put in office to serve and protect the citizens use their power to inflict harm and injury to the very people they're supposed to be serving? How do we bring loving here today, Mayor McNamara? What's going on? Do we actually think all these young people were born to die so early?
 Do we actually believe that they are all thugs? They don't want nothing out of life? They don't want to go to school? They don't want to prosper? What's going on? Why? Tell me why. And if that's the case, why don't we have the same concern for the young people dying as we do for the people that's dying over opium overdose, drugs, alcohol?
 What's going on when we can expect it to be the the normalcy of a society to see young black men dying like they are? Should we be concerned? Should we have red flags up? Should we be asking the question, what's going on? There has to be an answer. Does this mean that we're going to save all?
 No, I don't believe so. But it means that we have to do our best to try to find out why are so many young African-Americans dying? And we can start here in the city of Rockford. Why do so many of them have guns when they can't even go to school and get an education? They can't get jobs. What's going on when we can turn a deaf ear to the pain that many mothers are suffering?
 Children are crying, need to be loved, need somewhere to belong. They're crying out, they're asking for help. And a lot of times that help come up in negativity. It may turn out to be a game, drugs, whatever. But the question I still ask is, what's going on? Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm going to detour a little bit from my regular three-minute speech, but I just want to make a comment on that. I wanted to talk about why did the Syrian war start? In March, on March, on the 2011, eight years ago, they started out a demonstration. Eight years later, we have a civil war.
 What a coincidence, in Hong Kong in March of this year, eight months ago, it started out as a mass movement against a legislation that was passed that the citizens is right now fighting today. I wanted to talk about
 What we did this past weekend and want to thank all our sponsors because we was able to take 60 not 60 But 78 people to Disney on ice. We was able to raise 1,000 and we needed 1,000 and $20 and we was able to raise in less than two and a half weeks $1,500 I want to switch and say one of our biggest concerns is that
 we don't have enough transportation. But right now, back 10 years ago, we had Mark Anthony Baltimore that was killed at Kingdom Authority Church. To a few weeks later, I mean a few weeks ago, Eugene Washington, his grandmother's sitting here, his family members, y'all stand up, his family members that's here, their concern is that
 This young man that got killed in the jail. We also know that we need to go before the Winnebago County Board to talk about what happened there. And tomorrow I'm gonna meet with the family to go into further detail. I wanna piggyback off of what she was just talking about.
 Well, haven't y'all ever looked at the school system? Look at the number of our youth that's being expelled from school. And then look how many of our youth have been involved in domestic violence. Do that relate to the crime that we have today? What do we have in place when you expel the youth out of school? Where do they go? What do they do? When you suspend the youth out of school, where do they go? What do they do?
 Are you giving them homework? What happens when they don't have, they out of school for the rest of the year? What do you think they're gonna do? That's the one that we need to go to the police station. Compare them numbers, put them numbers together. We got the domestic violence building that y'all finna erect, that's gonna come to life. But yet we have to be there at the forefront. If we not there at the table, me as a precinct committeeman,
 I'm not there to represent. I have not and what have you. How can we be effective working together if we're not involved? And once again, I want to go back and look at the number of youth that's been suspended. Look at our youth that's committing crime. What can we do to lower the crime rate? I tell you what we can do to lower the crime rate. Getting with the school system, find an alternative instead of suspending
 and expelling our youth out the school system, we need to find alternatives of dealing and working with our youth. I pray and feel sorry for Eugene Washington. I thank your family for being here, and this is something we'll discuss tomorrow. Peace out. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Erica Kuhar. Hi, I'm Erica. I'm a freshman at Auburn High School. Thank you.
 Since football gets most of the attention, I wanted to raise awareness for swimming and invite all of you to cheer on Auburn at the varsity conference this weekend at Harlem High School this Saturday. Awesome. Thank you. Thanks for coming tonight. Thank you.
 Okay, we will move to new committee reports To code and regulation committee alderman trail. Thank your honor First committee report recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking loading zone restriction on regular school days from 7 a.m. To 3 p.m. On the north side of Maple Street from 126 feet west of North Winnebago Street to North Rockton Avenue and
 Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a 20 mile an hour school speed limit on Gregory Street from Kishwaukee Street to the north leg of South 3rd Street. The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a 20 mile an hour school speed limit on South 3rd Street from Gregory Street to College Avenue.
 Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a 20 mile an hour speed
 School speed limit on school Street from North Johnston Avenue to North Day Avenue number five the committee recommends sustaining of the traffic Commission's approval of established a yield sign at the intersection of West Jefferson Street and North Independence Avenue with traffic on West Jefferson Street required to yield prior to entering the intersection with North Independence Street
 Number six, the committee recommends approval of the request for an honorary street name change on South Winnebago Street from Morgan Street to Montague Street to Chuck Jefferson Way in honor of Charles E. Chuck Jefferson, former state representative for the 67th district.
 Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development for a medical clinic with a methadone services. And administration offices for a multi-family residential zoning district at 49XX East 8th Street and 215 Easton Parkway. Remedies Renewing Lives is the applicant, subject to conditions.
 Number eight, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for body arts facility in a C4 zoning district at 136 North First Street. Sarah Stewart is the applicant, subject to conditions. Number nine.
 The committee recommends sustaining the Zoni Board of Appeals for a variation to reduce a required setback from the alley for a site obscuring fence 6 feet height from 2.5 feet to 0 feet along the east property line. B, the variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in the rear yard from 6 feet to 8.5 feet.
 C is a variation to reduce the required setback of a playhouse from six feet to zero feet along the east and south property lines. And D, a variation to reduce the required setback for an attached deck from six feet to 4.33 feet along the south property line in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 2115 Clinton Street. Andrew Capone is the applicant.
 Subject to conditions number 10, the committee recommends reversing the zoning board of appeals denial for a variation to increase the maximum square footage permitted for a freestanding sign from 48 square feet to 64 square feet in a rural estate zoning district at 3445 Elmwood Road.
 Doyle signs as the applicant subject to conditions Number 11 committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford public school district 205 For police services on all of these your honor the legal directors shall prepare the appropriate Ordinances and I place them up for passage. Thank you. Does anyone want alderman Charlie to repeat any of those 11 items? I
 So you have 11 items before you. Is there any questions or discussion over those 11 items? Alderman Rose. Just wanted to make a comment on number 11. I normally would abstain with items with Rockford Public Schools, seeing that I'm an employee, but I've been told that because there's no monetary obligation,
 Trade off that I'm able to vote in favor. I'll be voting in favor of that Thank you other discussion comments questions. I've seen none clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? Yes, Brainy timber Thompson Kelly often Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirely I Irvins I
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 8, I'm sorry, number 7, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 8, 12 ayes. Item 9, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 10 and 11, 12 ayes. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 were 12 ayes. Thank you. So those all pass. That's exciting. Next we'll move to finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have nine items. Number one is the approval of the proposed sale of the city-owned property at 413 Ford Street to Mario Sullivan Snyder in the amount of $3,000. Next is the approval of vouchers in the amount of $5,620,956.74. Next is the approval of the tax-exempt lease for citywide vehicles to PNC Equipment Finance.
 for a lease rate of 2.733% for the purchase of 20 citywide vehicles. The annual payment will be $118,139.79 for a term of seven years. Next we have the approval of the tax exempt lease for heavy equipment to PNC equipment.
 finance for a lease rate of two point nine seven five percent for the purchase of one skid steer loader one forestry chipper one John Deere Backhoe loader and five plow trucks annual payments will be one hundred thirty seven thousand three hundred ninety three dollars and sixty three cents For a term of ten years next is the approval of the action might hold that item up and handle that after we do the others. I
 Next is the approval of the 2019 proposed property tax ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of $55,567,606 for the levies and the corporate police protection, police pension, school crossing guards, fire protection, street and bridge, judgments, tuberculosis sanitarium, public library, public library maintenance of buildings, and
 in the illinois municipal retirement unemployment compensation workers compensation and auditing funds final city levy amount will be the approximately 48 million 187 thousand six hundred six dollars
 Next, we have the approval of the 2019 tax levy for street and bridge purposes from .06% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford to .1% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford. And number 8 is approval of the 2019 property tax abatements for 2019, the debt levy service
 The debt service levy is $10,530,391 and will be abated in its entirety. And number nine is the approval of the 2020 budget and appropriation ordinance. So I place those eight items up for passage. Thank you. So you're going to take items one through four, then one through four, six through nine, and then we'll do five after that. Perfect. Okay. Does anyone have any questions or discussions over items one through four and six through nine?
 Say none. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasperini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Twelve ayes on all. And Alderman Beck, do you want to... Thank you, Your Honor. Before we do move on, I just want to thank everybody for...
 Giving their input or not so much input on the budget I think that speaks well the finance department and and our leadership on putting together a budget that is balanced and We don't have to make cuts, which is really nice for a year So just thank you for all your hard work and hopefully the future will continue to be brighter for our financial situation Then the number five is the approval of the 2020 fee schedule and I'm going to move to amend the committee report on
 to change the 2020 fee schedule shall reflect a maximum of five gaming terminals instead of six on if anybody has any questions we have a motion and a second
 Is there any discussion or questions that anyone has? Alderman Thompson-Kelly, and then I'll move right around. Just a question I have. As far as reports that we are receiving now, will we continue to receive those reports on all the gaming machines in the community? I hear not. I see hits going like that, but okay. You'll continue to receive the reports. Thank you. Yep. Alderman McNeely, you had your hand raised.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Just wanting to understand why the reduction. Director Myers. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Since the new legislation came down, we've been getting quite a bit of inquiry from existing businesses.
 interested in going from five to six but also from businesses that have no gaming machines right now that may want to go to five or six I don't believe that the IGB has issued any rules or guidance on how this is going to be implemented Understanding, you know, we've just gone through a casino process that has that touches on this issue we thought it was in our best interest to take a
 a bit of a step back and make sure we understand how this is going to impact us moving forward before we make any final decisions on whether or not we need to amend our codes to address
 the number of vgts that are allowable in different um establishments so we can anticipate moving quickly on this because i'm sure that the igb is going to have rules and regs soon um so we don't anticipate this tabling this for a while but we would get to work on an ordinance update soon very soon so what would happen mr mayor with uh companies that have already applied for six
 i'm not sure if we have issued any permits for the sixth machine yet right now if they've they've applied they wouldn't be granted we would just be in a holding pattern on those right now until we determine what we're going to do with those okay so currently we don't have and we don't intend to forward at this time to allow anyone to have this right at this time no um we did have a handful a couple maybe two or three applications i believe in the process um if those have not been issued yet then we would hold hold those for now until we make a final decision
 Yep. Any other questions or concerns? Seeing none, can I just do a voice vote? Or do you need a... For an amendment, you should be able to voice vote. Okay, to amend item number five, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay, so now the amended item will come before us. Is there any questions or concerns or discussion on item five as amended? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye.
 Irvins? Thompson-Kelhey? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. Those items passed. Next up we'll go to officers reports and before I turn you over to the aldermen, I know Director Myers would like to make an announcement.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Seated behind me is the newest addition to the legal department. Chad Baker is the new assistant city attorney one. He'll be taking over the duties that were previously handled by attorney Flores and then by attorney Vaughn for a short time. So I'm sure you'll all be getting very acquainted with him very soon. Thank you, Mr. Myers. Alderman Thompson Kelly. I've got one before that. Can you tell us what his duties would consist of? Sure.
 Director Myers. The Assistant City Attorney 1 position that Mr. Baker is filling right now are the ones that deal primarily with our code enforcement, handling our code enforcement here on Wednesdays and I believe Friday afternoons, but also our small claims matters, anything property related which will include enforcing judgments in court, going through our any abandonment petitions, demolition matters,
 but also advising our departments, the Code Enforcement Department and our Building Department on issues as they arise.
 Thank you. I'm glad you explained that because I hope he got some paper and pen because I have some work for him to do tomorrow. First of all, the 2600 block of Mondale, I want to thank you, Your Honor, and I want to thank staff for a quick response of the complaints that I received today. What's your name again? Okay, honey.
 2600 Lawndale and also write down 2113 Shelly Drive, the alley. Could you please give me a call once you've taken care of that? Thank you. That may fall Chad under Z, all other duties as assigned. Alderman Thunberg and then I'll move on. Mr. Baker, my name is Chad too and Alderman Ann Thompson Callie calls me honey as well. So get used to it. Alderman Irvins.
 welcome mr chad um i just wanted to say thank you to sol the contractor that's doing the sidewalk on samuelson road if you haven't seen the sixth ward you know jefferson high school we have a sidewalk now i know many of us we have areas that don't have sidewalks well you know this is over a mile stretch and so i just want to say thank you to the public works you know uh kyle steve yeah everybody thank you thank you alderman
 Alderman Rose just wanted to touch on two items. I had a few people ask about yard waste pickup Due to this early snow that last date for yard waste pickup is the first weekend in December, so Though yard waste will continue through November and into that first weekend into December second thing is I had an opportunity to go to the Ice Hogs game this weekend and plenty of open seats, but
 a great chance to take your family out and experience some pro hockey. One of the guys just moved up to the Blackhawks more recently. It was fun to watch him while he was playing with us, but he's now playing with a pro hockey team. So if you want to experience some really good hockey, get out to the BMO and check out the Ice Hogs. Thank you. Other officers' reports? Yes.
 Okay, moving right along. Under motions and resolutions, code and regulation, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. First is the snow market scheduled for Saturday, December 14, 2019 and Sunday, December 15, 2019 from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. The second is the 2020 City Council and Committee's calendar and I believe that's it. Place those up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. We have two items before you. Any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion on those two items, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomberg. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Twelve ayes. Thank you. Moving on to finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have 10 items. I'm going to take the first nine first, and then we'll do the 10th one after that. We have an awarded bid for fire station number six for natural gas generator replacement to Miller Engineering in the amount of $166,215. Actually, I believe we are going to hold out item two. Is that? Yes. Yes. Okay, so we're holding out item two. Do I need a motion to lay that over? You can either hold it out or lay it over.
 Without objection, I'm going to hold that out for a staff request. All right. Item three is the awarded bid for City Hall makeup air unit replacement to Geostar Mechanical in the amount of $129,600.
 Next is the awarded bid for Water Division HQ masonry repairs to Mike Harris Mason contractor and the amount of one hundred forty eight thousand eight hundred fifty dollars next to the awarded bid for 2019 demolition group six through Northern Illinois service company in the amount of 67,000 two hundred eighty five dollars for the demolition of 12 oh four forty forty first twenty nine thirty five Collins Street thirty three twenty five Collins Street and
 1044 North Rockton Avenue, 1229 School Street, 1210 6th Avenue, 1211 Crosby Street, and 1811 Crosby Street. The contract duration is 45 days.
 Next we have the award of non-competitive contract for John Deere Equipment Repair to Westside Tractor Company for an estimated contract value of $50,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with two possible additional one year extensions. Next we have the award of joint purchasing contract for Rock Salt, Bulk Road Salt to Compass Minerals America for an estimated amount of $1,191,744 based on unit pricing.
 That's 14,400 tons at $82.76 per ton. Contract duration is one year. Next is the award of joint purchasing contract for 20 citywide vehicles to Anderson Rock River Ford for the total of $743,508 with additional upgrades. And then next is award of joint purchasing contract for heavy equipment to Bobcat of Rockford for a skid steer loader, force 3 chipper.
 John Deere backhoe loader, side tractor sales company. I'm sorry. Let me back up. For a skid loader and forestry chipper to Vermeer Industries. For a John Deere backhoe loader to Westside Tractor Sales. And five plow trucks to Lakeside International and a Monroe truck equipment for a total of $1,173,492.22. I place those eight items up for passage.
 You're going to wait on 10. So we have eight items before you. Is there any discussion on those eight items? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomer. Staying on seven. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. Aye.
 Items 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 12 ayes. Item number 7, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 8 and 9, 12 ayes. Thank you. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. And then on number 10, which is I'm making a motion to reconsider the ordinance approving the video gaming terminal fee schedule to increase the number of allotted machines from five to six machines. Second. We have a motion and a second to reconsider. Second.
 Just takes a voice vote. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. So then I would move that we, well, we passed an amended committee report earlier, so we're voting on that. I think Mr. Director Myers. Just to clarify, this is for the 2019 fee schedule that was amended at the last meeting, the 2019 schedule.
 went from five to six machines so now we've just uh reconsidered that we would need now need a vote to approve uh the essentially the previous uh schedule which is five maximum five right now we can just repeat what all just need a motion to approve the 2019 fee schedule including a maximum of five video gaming terminals so i'm placing that um so i'm moving that we approve
 Having five machines instead of six in our 2019 fee schedule, correct? Yes, sir Is there any second discuss discussion on that? I think I made you a second. We have a motion and a second Sorry, is there any further discussion seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? Yes, preemie Toomer Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman
 Rose Beach Quinones back. All right, McNeely Shirley 12 eyes
 Item passes next up we have new business. We have a code and regulation committee alderman trail Thank you honor have an ordinance establishing a no parking loading zone restriction on the regular school days from 7 a.m To 3 p.m. On the north side of Maple Street from 126 feet west of North Winnebago Street to North Rockton Avenue number two is an ordinance establishing a 20 mile an hour school speed limit on Gregory Street from kishwaukee street to the north leg of South 3rd Street and
 Number three is an ordinance establishing a 20 mile an hour school speed limit on South 3rd Street from Gregory Street to College Avenue. Number four is an ordinance establishing a 20 mile an hour school speed limit on school streets from North Johnston Avenue to North Day Avenue. Number five is an ordinance establishing a yield signing at the intersection.
 of west jefferson street and north independence avenue with traffic on the west jefferson street required to yield prior to entering the intersection with north independent street
 Number six is an ordinance approving the request for an honorary street name change on South Winnebago Street from Morgan Street to Montague Street To Chuck Jefferson Way in honor of Charles E Chuck Jefferson our former state representative from the 67th district number seven is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a plan unit development for a medical clinic and methadone services and
 at 49XX East State Street and 215 Easton Parkway. Number 8 is an ordinance approving a special use permit for body arts at 136 North 1st Street. Place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Oh, I have three more, I'm sorry. I'm going to leave.
 Yep, I have an ordinance approving variation to reduce the required setback from the alley for a site obscuring fence Six feet in height from two and a half feet to zero feet Along the East property line B is a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height and a rear yards six feet to eight and a half feet
 C is a variation to reduce the required setback of a playhouse from six feet to zero feet Along the east and south property lines D is a variation to reduce the required setback for an attached deck at six feet to four point three three feet and
 along the south property line at 2115 Clinton Street. Number 10 is an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum square footage permitted for a free standing sign from 48 square feet to 64 square feet at 3445 Elmwood Road.
 That, Your Honor, needs 10 votes this evening to pass. And number 11 is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Public School District 205 for police services from our police department. Now I place all of those up for passage, Your Honor. All right, so we have 11 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 11 items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, and I am not. Yes, Brini. Aye. Toonberg. Irvin.
 Thompson Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. No on 7. Aye on the remain. Shirely. Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 12 ayes. Item number 7, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 8, 12 ayes. Item 9, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 10 and 11, 12 ayes.
 Thank you those items passed next up we have finance and personnel committee alderman back. Thank you your honor I have eight items first is an ordinance approving the sale of the city on property Located at 413 Ford Street from there. Yo Sullivan Snyder in the amount of three three thousand dollars next We have an ordinance approving the tax exempt lease for citywide vehicles the PNC equipment finance for a lease rate of two point seven three three percent for the purchase of 20 citywide vehicles and
 Next we have an ordinance approving the tax exempt lease for heavy equipment to PNC equipment finance for a lease rate of 2.975 percent for the purchase of skid loader forestry chipper John Deere backhoe loader and five plow trucks with annual payments of 137 thousand three hundred ninety three dollars for a term of ten years and
 Next we have an ordinance approving the 2020 fee schedule next we have an ordinance approving the 2019 Proposed property tax levy ordinances prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of 55 million five hundred seven five hundred sixty seven thousand six hundred six dollars for the levies and the corporate police protection police pension school crossing guards fire protection street and bridge judgments tuberculosis sanitarium public library
 public library maintenance of buildings illinois municipal retirement unemployment compensation workers compensation and auditing funds final city levy amount will be approximately forty eight million one hundred eighty seven dollars and six hundred
 I'm sorry, $48,187,606. Next we have an ordinance approving the 2019 tax levy for street and bridge purposes from 0.06% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford. To 0.1% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford.
 Next is an ordinance approving the 2019 property tax abatements. And finally, we have the ordinance approving the 2020 budget and appropriation ordinance. I place these up for passage. Thank you. So there's eight items before you. Is there any discussion on those eight items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones.
 Aye. McNeely? Shirely? 12 ayes. Thank you. Before I ask for a motion to adjourn, just two quick things. One quick thing, one not as quick.
 One quick thing is, first I want to say a specific thank you to Director Kerry Haggerty and your entire team, as well as Alderman Beck as chair of the Finance and Personnel Committee, just for the amount of work that you have put into this year's budget. Really appreciate it. I think you started this year's budget about three days after we passed last year's budget. And so I'm really looking forward to talking to you on Friday about next year's budget.
 But really, we do appreciate the work that you do. It's tireless and much appreciated. Second thing is a little heavier. Tomorrow is November 5th, and tomorrow marks two years since we lost Rockford Police Officer Jamie Cox in the line of duty. As we mark that two year anniversary, I would ask that you join me
 as we honor his ultimate sacrifice that we also remember the lives of the other officers who we lost in the line of duty for the city of rockford in total there are seven men and women who put their lives on the line and paid that ultimate sacrifice throughout our city's history
 And so after I mentioned these names, I just asked for a moment of silence for these officers and their loved ones. Officer Jamie Cox, end of watch was November 5th, 2017. Detective Kevin D. Rice, Sr., end of watch was August 3rd, 2001. Officer Randall A. Blank, end of watch December 31st, 1980.
 Officer Charles J. Williams, end of watch June 1st, 1972. Officer Arthur H. Bassett, end of watch September 22nd, 1927. Officer Frank Cacella, end of watch February 25th, 1927. Officer Lorenzo J. Gillooly, end of watch October 12th, 1927.
 1917 and I just ask that we stand for a moment of silence to recognize them and their family. Thank you for your time And with that is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and second does anyone want to discuss it? I know good all those in favor say aye those opposed. Hope you have a wonderful night