we have a legacy and the individual here from our lord thank you for letting us come to you thank you for being a part of our lives part of this government more responsibilities has given us thank you for watching and giving every all of us that's around this chamber to the people that live here work here i ask that you guide our delegates this evening pray in jesus name amen amen
 and is the great model for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen. Here. Yes, please. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 I'm just a reminder that our we have all the positions just to compare our own statements with the other ones motion to accept the journal second to accept the journal there are two journals on the floor we'll see if they can I want to make sure I don't believe that they do that they're refutable statements so these are from the past two
 thank you so under I think both of us there's a city of care so both of us have a special change of speaking I have 13 special city council meeting where other city council members actually do journals and we see a lot of support from the parents and it's good to see speakers sign up for conference just reminder speakers they do sign up later and if you're interested in completing the comments they start to go over a lot of stuff so I think it's good
 for a speaker this evening. I just brought you something. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the fourth chapter, the first verse, it says, listen, my son, to a father's instruction. Pay attention and gain understanding. What I want to speak about tonight, mental health care, the latest state budget cap. The purpose of the grocery book when I say this is simple. It's saying, watch this.
 The care and professional staff at the center have been taking 24 hours a day, seven days a week to respond to people who have had psychotic episodes. Since 2012, they've been there to calm the person who considered taking his or her own life by jumping off the State Street Bridge. They've been there to help when police have been called to the home of a person who
 have barricaded themselves. They've been there to help people with all kinds of mental health issues. No matter the time of day, those caring professionals might not be available the next time. The long-term center's hours will be cut beginning today. Instead of an all-day, everyday service, the center will be open from noon to 11 p.m. The hours have been cut
 Because about 1.5 million funded promise for the triage center was zeroed out and Governor Bruce Roberts proposed funding. Most valuable people are at risk because of the failure of the governor and legislative leaders to reach a budget accord. Every day, another example of how the state's residents are hurt because the state has no spending plan.
 The plan comes to our attention. The lack of help for those who suffer from mental illness is particularly bad. One in five people older than 18 suffer from a bad mental disorder. Mental illness does not discriminate. It can hit anyone. It could be temporary or lifelong. Mental illness is one of the most treatable disease. About 60% of the more various centers of patients can be stabilized and can go home, according to Roswell CEO Phil Eaton. Going home might go into the emergency room
 room or to jail with the option before the Mulberry Center opened and would be the option to do an hour with the center's court. Besides, the moral obligations are being neglected. The same failure to pay will create a waste of time, resources, and money. Locally, this is not how you turn Illinois around. Police officers who are not trained to deal with mental health issues are
 are the first responders when there is a disturbance. Instead of taking a troubled individual to the Tri-Ed Center where the person could be in and out and home in a short amount of time, they have to take that person to the emergency room where they are likely to wait for hours. A police time is valuable, and it would be better spent catching crooks than waiting a while because a properly trained mental health professional was not available. It's time for Eleanor's citizens to speak up
 and stand up and say, we're tired of this nonsense that's framed you. Solutions to Eleanor's problem, only thing you have to do is take $8 billion from the $10 billion Attorney General Lisa Madigan collected from suits. Attorney General Lisa Madigan, that would close your budget gap. Thank you for letting me speak. Thank you. Nice to be here. It's a pleasure. Last week I didn't know why I was here.
 Probably the same thing is true tonight. But I, Roland Posca, am an insignificant Midwest artist. I am an educated pig. I am the original stupid fishy whale. I, Roland Posca, have had the overwhelming privilege to have lived long enough to have accomplished three things. Number one, define the Beckel Edge art style.
 as a compromise between forces meeting and parting forever. Number two, define the great human race, the antithesis to the master race concept. Number three, program to do the impossible. Sincerely, Rowan Anthony Foster. P.S., read our books. But tonight, after hearing a news interview,
 I added a PPSS. There are some great people in the Rockford news media, but the problem with Rockford is the news media. The news media on the whole sucks. But someday it will all be great.
 Thank you.
 There's supposedly a shortfall of a half a million dollars in the Public Works Department. Again, taxpayers have to make sacrifices to get the city out of the red. The choices are removal of another 2,700 street lights, or eliminate six to seven frontline employees who actually patch the potholes and do our snow plowing services,
 Didn't we already have to sacrifice street lights a couple of years ago to save a half a million dollars? And the mayor promptly signed a consultant's contract to the tune of a half a million dollars the following week, thereby eating up that savings. Didn't the council vote to outsource street sweeping to the tune of $200,000? And behind your backs, this administration renegotiated another contract up to $400,000 without your knowledge or approval.
 If this administration didn't keep eating up the savings for pet projects, then Public Works wouldn't be in the mess they are today. Didn't City Council vote to forgive a grant of millions for a well connected family member while we have to pick up their tab? We pay garbage fees, street sweeping fees, higher water and sewage fees. We also pay the additional 1% infrastructure city sales tax in addition to the regular city sales tax.
 At our high property taxes, and you have the call to ask us to risk our safety because you can't budget correctly, the infrastructure tax was sold to us on the basis that we can't wait for the state to give us money. Well, they won't, and now the city won't. So where is that money going? Fixed potholes and snow removal help prevent dangerous accidents and allow police cars, ambulances, and fire trucks to go to emergencies and arrive safely at their destinations.
 Also, by eliminating necessary personnel, you are putting young school children at risk when they ride their school buses. Adding insult to injury, while taking the streetlights away from the taxpayers, the Tourism Council is proposing to install beautification lights to an already very well-lit downtown and riverfront. The Tourism Council receives funding under the hotel tax, so taxpayer monies will be paying for this while resident streetlights disappear.
 What good is it to put a bridge to know where hotels, sports cores, and city markets if your own constituency is being neglected with basic city services? Most of these ventures are subsidized with city monies, aka the taxpayers. We are always told these ventures bring in revenue. If they do, why are you cutting back on basic services for the people who foot the bills? What about the Alpine Dam, which still needs major renovation? Are you waiting for it to totally fall apart?
 The city is also receiving revenue from slot machines, permits and fines. Where is this money going? When are the constituents going to come first? We just keep paying the bills and making sacrifices. We are just taken for granted. How come this council did not know the city of Rockford was being audited by the IRS for nine months? The city had to return money to the federal government because it was not used appropriately.
 In addition, the EPA was going to fine the city because it wasn't in compliance with piping. I'm almost done there. How can this council make wise decisions when this administration just keeps giving bits of information a little at a time? There is no transparency as was promised by this administration. You guys deserve better than this, and so do the taxpayers. Thank you.
 Believe me, they're a great city. All the women, all the women of the United States of America, Illinois, got a coat. Proverbs 28, verse 27 says, God wants us to identify with the needy, like Lord, the second part of this Proverbs is to be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to poor people will be blessed.
 If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God would supply our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs? The Ohio State General, worst heroin epidemic he had ever seen. On November 2nd, 7th, 34 a.m.,
 heroin use in the past decade jumped more than 60%. The use of men's and women's across all economic areas and heroin-related overdose have nearly quadrupled. During a 60-minute report, Ohio Attorney General Mike Dwight showed correspondent Bill Whitaker how heroin is gripping his state from rural town to wealthy suburb. Dwight joined CBS this morning to
 because heroin, in fact, why do they wait until it happens to the rich people when then they want to call it epidemic? The guns, the gangs, the drugs, the bullying, and the killing that's been going on for hundreds of years in our neighborhood, we need to start being an interrupter and not just wait until it happens to the rich people in our society.
 I take myself for instance, instead of complaining all the time, I'm a born interruptor. I use my skills to help others by working outside the box and cutting through red tape. Not worrying about how I'm going to get paid, but leaving it in the Lord's hands and having faith in what we can do today. By taking one day at a time, until we start working together, Lord, to transform Rockford.
 We are always going to be rock and breaking on the second worst city in America for classical inequality. There are people out here that have mad skills. They just need to be able to use their skills. We are about education, training, and jobs. Going head up with black on black crime at the next level. We have been trying to make a change, but we cannot do that if we do not work together to ultimately transform Rockland. The politicians, the city workers,
 the police department, the church, the school, and the social service organization cannot transform Rockville at all. Therefore, we need the help of the citizens that are willing to volunteer in time. However, the working class or someone of our own would treat us like volunteers, like second-class citizens.
 Then they are not going to be so willing to volunteer their time. There are some people in our social work area that look down upon a person and say you do not have a degree or a job or a job. Plus they want us to volunteer our time. They almost shun the position of a story teacher that has used their power thinking that they are better than us. As long as you keep taking from the west side of the river and building in fact, in fact, in factitude, in factitude,
 And starting today on the east side of the river, we will always be ranked as the second worst city in Rockville. By taking the public health, the public aid, and the child support, and taking the crisis center from off the west side, putting it on the east side, and taking food off the mouth of the west side. And taking people that work on the west side, where they're spending their money on the west side, now they're spending it on the east side. How are we doing the west side when we take it from the west side?
 The final speaker this evening is Toby Holton. Wow, criminals were busy this last week. Burglaries, armed robberies, pistol whippings, home invasion. That home invasion on Charles was not random as they had at least 50 marijuana plants growing in their apartment. One group robbing another.
 A friend of mine lived several houses down from the most recent home invasion on Charles. He told me that the gun he had in the lock box upstairs is now on tape next to his chair, where he now has easy access for self-defense. Did you hear about the scumbag who was killed while trying to rob a convenience store in Chicago? He was taken out by a man with a concealed carry permit.
 Please give that man a medal. Criminals beware, you will soon know that not everyone will be a victim. Rockford restaurateurs pay attention. Did you hear about the restaurant in Indianapolis? It was robbed on Saturday. On Sunday he posted on the internet that anyone who comes into his restaurant with a concealed carry permit will get 25% off of their bill.
 That following Monday, the slowest day in the restaurant business, his sales increased 400%. Incredible. He stated that 110 people with a concealed carry permit took advantage of this offer, and several showed in their permits but were happy to pay the full price for their meals. I would like to thank the Chief.
 and all the officers involved in today's reverse prostitution sting. I witnessed several arrests and, as I've said before, it's better than watching TV. On the plus side of these arrests, they were using the parking lot of Turner School as a staging area where they brought the cars and the Johns, letting the Johns see where they will be going in the beginning of 2017.
 And finally, my neighbor said that when she got home from work today, that there were two prostitutes working in front of her house and she was mad. She told them that they had better leave or she was going to call the police. They said that they were the police. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you to our witnesses and to me, to your... Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have one item in some referral memorandum from Mark Williams, economic development manager. This is regarding a proposed liberation development, city development. So the boundary amendment in words five and six will be referred to the planning and development. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have a referral of the traffic commission agenda to the traffic commission. I have a referral to memorandum from Scott Kepler-Hillard, the zoning and land use administrator regarding the final plan number three of the new town subdivision. I have a referral from myself, the chairman of the codes and regulations committee, to start discussions on the collaboration of county sheriff's department and the state of Iowa. Thank you very much. All in favor?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Ken Holden, Water Superintendent, regarding water rate adjustments. I have a memo from Matt Whitner, City Engineer, regarding intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Park District for Whittier Park. And I have a memorandum from Mark Stockman, Street Transportation Superintendent, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County for the joint use of a pavement driving vehicle co-owned by the City of Rockford and Winnebago County. Those three memos will be deferred
 referred to the Financial Personnel Committee. And then I have a bid for the sale of property at 349 Quaker Road. A deed that our legal director, Bill, did. And it looks like we have a bid from M-TRAC Group for $100, and this will be referred to the Financial Personnel Committee. Further decisions?
 thank you i already have two letters one from terry siever expressing concerns about the newtown department to be part of that i've come to your office another from dr insane expressing concerns about health down 20. uh
 We have three proclamations this evening. I'd invite those that are here on behalf of proclamations, whether or not I call your name, if you're part of the group receiving the proclamation, please feel free to step forward. Our first proclamation is regarding Epilepsy Awareness Month. I'd invite Dawn Lee and other members from the Epilepsy Foundation that may be here to accept the proclamation and please come forward. Thank you.
 Whereas the Epilepsy Foundation of North Central Illinois and Iowa and Nebraska is celebrating more than 37 years of service to the Rockford community. The mission of the foundation is to ensure that people with seizures are able to participate in all experiences of life and will work to prevent, control and cure epilepsy through services, education, advocacy and research. Whereas there are approximately 65 million people who have epilepsy worldwide and one in ten will have a seizure in their lifetime.
 And whereas with nearly 150,000 annual new cases in the U.S., it's important for the foundation to increase seizure education and awareness. Whereas in conjunction with other national organizations in cities around the country, the foundation hopes to use this month to spread awareness and educate throughout the country. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim November 2015 to be Epilepsy Awareness Month.
 We urge our citizens to recognize and appreciate the dedication and commitment of the Epilepsy Foundation to our community. Thank you. Thank you. We just want to say thank you. It means a lot to us because she suffered with it for 42 years. It's important. It's something that's not spoken about. There's 50,000 people who have
 Thank you again. Our next proclamation is on behalf of Veterans Appreciation Week. I invite Scott Lodowski from Veterans Memorial Hall and veterans that are joining him, including Dave Davis, John Klein, and George Blake to come forward. You're next. Whereas tens of millions of Americans have served in the armed forces during the past century,
 Whereas hundreds of thousands of Americans have given their lives during the past century in order that we may maintain our freedom and our way of life. Whereas through act of Congress, May 13th, 1938, the 11th of November each year, was declared a legal holiday, a day to be dedicated to the cause of world peace and celebrated in Belize's armistice day in honor of veterans of World War I.
 Veterans Day not only preserves the significance of the day historically, but helps focus attention on the important purpose of Veterans Day. Celebration and honor American veterans for their patriotism, their love of country, and their willingness to serve and sacrifice for the common good. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Borse, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, will hear Robert Lang, the Weekend of November 8th through the 14th, to be Veterans Appreciation Weekend.
 We call upon our citizens to observe not only Veterans Day, but reflect that entire week on the sacrifices of all those who have fought so valiantly to preserve our freedom and our heritage. Thank you. Mayor?
 Winnebago County Veterans Association thanks everybody for this proclamation. Thank you very much, Mayor. And we welcome everybody to, we have our dinner coming up on Friday. If you've got a table or got a spot on the table, we welcome you there. Please come and join us. I think he's only got two tables left, so there's not much space left. So I thank you and thank you very much for your
 What is it, like the third or fourth time? So I thank you very, very much for that. Thank you, and thank you for all you do throughout the year for our veterans and our community. We look forward to the dinner this year. Our final proclamation this evening is for St. Anthony College of Nursing 100-Year Anniversary Day, and I'd invite those that are here from the college to come forward to accept the proclamation, including Dr. Sandy Solwich from the college.
 Whereas November 2nd, 1915, the Sisters of the Third Order of St. Francis opened a diploma nurses training school in Rockford with an enrollment of five students. Whereas it was determined that a bachelorette education nursing would best serve the healthcare needs of the community, the changing trends in healthcare, in 1990 the school of nursing became St. Anthony College of Nursing and in 1992 the first bachelor of science class graduated.
 Whereas as enrollment continued to grow, the need for more advanced nursing education increased. The College of Nursing began offering a master's degree program in 2006, and in 2014 a doctor of nursing practice degree was added. Whereas St. Anthony, graduates are sought out by local and regional employers because of the school's reputation for producing knowledgeable, highly skilled, and value-driven professional nurses. Whereas today, St. Anthony College of Nursing
 has an enrollment of more than 300 students and continues to live his sister's mission of serving with the greatest care and love, being Rockford's leader in nursing education for over 100 years. Now therefore I, Lord State of Washington, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim November 2, 2015, to be St. Anthony College of Nursing's 100th year anniversary day. We urge our citizens to celebrate and recognize the vital educational opportunities made possible by this long-standing institution.
 everyone else. I certainly am honored to accept this on behalf of the College of Nursing. And just one other plug for the College of Nursing. When it was the School of Nursing a few years back, Mom, if you're watching, I just want to give you congratulations for being one of the Loonin College's graduates. Congratulations. I'm sure I need to get back to the participation. Go there. ...regarding historic preservation commission.
 and the local Washington Center, local land, and the local language. That'll be for the committee. So, with that, I'll take any major reports. Take your honor. Under Roman numeral five, we bring the report to date. One page, three items. The first item is
 planning to adopt a fee to recommend approval of the amendment to the Intercontinental Agreement with the Greater Rockford Area Air Force Board for purposes of funding and facilitating the operation and lease of the 8-hole facilities. Number two, planning to adopt and pay to recommend approval of the 2016 draft Act
 2016 draft annual action plan community development block grant, home investment partnership and emergency solutions grant program. And number three, the planning and development committee recommends approval, request for approval of a certificate of consistency with the consolidated project on the . Second. Second.
 I don't know if I am one two three all the favors. I think you're on the night place. These three other. Discussion. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right.
 that's our best other reports thank you your honor one through twenty one first I'd like to separate the remainder yes the remainder I would like to place up for second we've got a motion and a second to spend the rules on rule five B three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen four and sixteen seventeen eighteen
 . Thank you. With respect to B1, the plant on the corner of Perryville and Newburgh Road, I just had a couple questions about that. Is that where the new YMCA,
 right staff to property yeah sure take care of it and my question was when the application came through this summer actually this one which does speak about it the lot 11 will be the site of the new neighborhood medical clinic and I'm just confused is there going to be this lot 11 or lot 111
 a new medical clinic in addition to what's been proposed. Thank you, your honor. Yes, there is a park and a house system. And so my question, so what's gonna be on lot 110 if it's not the Woods building? Sorry, I'm just confused on the overall site plan. Then is lot 110 then what used to be the Woods building that is going to be the new Curie YMCA?
 So, you know, so the whole of the office is for our design resources. So, the contract recently to the lower last property, you know, the middle one is still in the university property. Good questions. Yes, if I remember on that property for the medical part, did we really reduce their amount of parking because they weren't going to need, they were going to be sharing that was reduced?
 That is correct. There was a barrier to the parking lot. And that the parking was lowered, right? Because of the amount of people that feel they did not need that large, quote-unquote, parking area? That's correct. They had submitted all of their existing applications. That was the general plan that was already decided at the time they came through the study.
 Thank you. Thank you for the questions. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Did I understand or did I not hear correctly for item B1 that this has something to do with the Mercy Rockford Hospital? This is an item that has to do with Mercy, but it is a clinic. This is just a clinical coverage. That is correct. The applicant on the subject of the block is a pregnant process, selling the property,
 Thank you very much. Any further questions? Any of these items? I would say that we will all write D, except for item 13, which is the subject of non-purchase overall. Hear me? I abstain on B1, and I am arrested. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Aye. McNeely? No, on all. Shelly? Aye. Call at 16. The motion is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. I move to amend the committee report under the new committee report to move Roman Rule 5, 315 to adopt a local amendment to section R313.1 to remove the requirement for fire suppression sprinkler systems for townhome development.
 including but not really it is our three point three point one point one design and installation in our three one three point one point two other code requirements second there's a motion in the second now a motion to amend it because we'll amend the committee report we're going to do committee reports from 5b15 to the local amendment to section r313.1
 for the requirement for fire spreads resistance and then it's going to be limited to three that's right the program I just have a question why the question was
 but it's a fact that they agree it's got thank you miss Mary I'm a elaborate on that for all last week we were discussing that's the whole proposal and sprinkler system also got phone calls from the different
 or whoever within that area that has some concern regarding the sprinkler system having that requirement for all construction I have weighed in my opinion regarding the housing market here in the city as well and I think that we should
 reconsider that and not advance that at this time because of the economic level here in the city. And a number of other aldermen also shared that opinion along with some other concerns such as other individuals that have signed other
 other municipalities that were signing on to this could possibly back out of it at some point in the future putting us the city of Rockford at a disadvantage requiring our developers to have it and their developers may not so that's why this amendment was added thank you thank you I appreciate that explanation but could I get a remarks from because I know there's a lot of meetings
 environment involvement behind this and I would feel in both for this I want to feel comfortable in either going for it or against it because I understand about the realtor
 and they stand something to gain and lose by this, but I want to know the safety of individuals that's a possibility here. So could I get, Your Honor, I get a response from the chief that was involved in all these meetings. So perhaps just the staff can give some background on the process that you first said and then,
 Whichever. I don't care, whoever. I'll start with my guest. I thought I would give a little bit of background to the process that we went through related to some of the revenue. But when we took on this initiative to adopt the regional building, it was not to put the city or our business in an age in place. It's quite the opposite of that. We wanted to bring a goal that was consistent with what that county church
 So we reached out to 35 municipalities and nine counties related to participating in the building code chapter. And again, according to census, the participants of the number of individuals related to the code result was, in the comments before you, that had the three local amendments, many of which had additional costs for the government. So we got a lot of added value for the one and two families
 structure to make a call and wait 14, say, staff, five, four, which repeal suppression in one family and two family structures that was set forth to come into effect in the grant first law and census provisions. We did have a number of discussions with all the interested parties related to whether that would be applicable and became a rule and that's how we brought it to the committee last week.
 As it relates to advancing forward, we know that there's a number of communities that are in the process of adopting this. Most part of the vote certainly has their own weapons. We saw last weekend, committee proposed amendments to the code which set forth as an aggregate date, January 1st. We've been allowing all of the developers and back home also for us to continue to reach out to partners. So that maybe go through the adoption process, so that we could all be in line.
 It also suggests that we come back to the process of pulling up the committee on the way out date so that we can advise to what committees have adopted the code. As far as the benefits, I'd just like to mention Anthony Herrington, a 47-year-old male. He was 47 years old. He died at 2415 Paradise Bowl Park.
 He did not have a suppression system in his building a month prior. We had a structure fire on Trill and they do have fire suppression extinguished or a couple of injuries or loss of life. We are advocates for public safety. We do not want to miss it.
 to be behind any others for development. We stand behind this, but it's the right thing to do to protect lives and property. And that's basically our stance, but it's the right thing to do, and it improves safety and definitely, no one's gonna remember the individual's name, 47 years old, died very young because he did not have suppression. It was built similar to the house on Trilling, the town homes, they do have fire suppression. We've had several saves of property and lives on that building by demonstrating for them to have that fire suppression.
 Director Pat Coney said it was a group process going through that and now we're hoping that it's something we're not reaching by. That's basically why we support this and what the benefits are. Thank you, Mayor. I guess I wasn't aware of the amendment until this evening and I kind of like the idea that Lee Baldwin and Newberg proposed or committed to at least allow staff the opportunity to see if this is something that can truly be a regional effort.
 I don't see what the downside is, is letting staff have February or March or even April to see if this is something that would work. It wouldn't be enforced until all the other bodies were to participate, and only if those bodies were to participate. So I don't see the downside from our standpoint, but I see it could be a gain down the road if others saw that our leadership went forward and decided to team up.
 I'll be honest, I see the realistic side that I think that likelihood is probably low, but I think with the amount of work that staff has put into this, I think they deserve the opportunity to see if they can sell all the communities on that benefit. So either from a safety or a policy. Thank you, Your Honor. I just had a question for the Chief. And that is, of the fire-related dust, is it due to smoke, inhalation, or burns?
 And I just want to get a sense of if we're going to put these in or advocate them, is it a multifactorial thing? Is it fire suppression plus smoke detectors and egress? Because I know there is some controversy because I think most of this fire-related industry does relate actually to smoking in relation to it. So the question is, which would be better, advocating smoke detectors
 If we had a choice, that would be smoke detectors or sprinklers or both. I would try to pick up statistics, but if they're living, they don't. It would be interesting to what the switchers are. Sure, definitely both. We are required as a state law that you have smoke detectors, carbon dioxide detectors in your businesses. The reason that most individuals succumb to smoke is because the fire spreads quickly and develops a smoke sprinkler system that suppresses it quickly, reducing the overall smoke.
 So for example, the individual intruding out in the kitchen fire, spreading the cabinets, the extinguisher quickly suppresses the minimal smoke damage throughout the structure. So even if the cabinets did not have the combination of the smoke detection system or the alarm spread going on, it's very rapid and clear activated by the heat. Thank you, Alderman Sussman. Kelly, most are all here.
 Thank you, sir. As I said, putting out my motion last week, I feel we're doing a disservice to the amount of people that have worked for months. Our staff and other municipality staff that have come up with a condensed type, I think we went down, what, four or five hundred codes. I think we're doing a disservice by not having this in the
 in with the way it's set up that we have a sunset. That we can vote on it, but that we don't know how the other municipalities, the elected officials, we do know how the municipality, the people, the staff that have worked on this, what their feelings are. We do not know for sure what any elected official is going to vote until like tonight, until we vote on it.
 And I think we do a disservice to the people that spent months coming up with this code by not getting it to them intact. Thank you. I just feel, I guess I have to go back to my original question and ask why the chair of the Folk and Reg takes something out because of his opinion. I'm joking here. It's not my opinion.
 I'm not sure what you're talking about. I'm talking about the multiple class that I've received lately, Your Honor, about the missing children. The question comes down to do you want to have supplier suppression in this time in single family and duplexes? There's other communities around the state. So the question is everybody needs to answer, do you want to? That's the question. No matter how we lay this over until January, we're going to have to make sure that we're
 I felt the need because of the posts and the conversations going on and the response from the community members that I throw this out there tonight. Do you want fire suppression, sprinklers or not? If we wait until February to find out what other communities are doing, it's an opportunity for the proponents of that to go out to these other communities and say that Rockford is in favor of it.
 I want to know is this council in favor of suppression system? Instead of playing the game of voting for all the communities to fight now, let the council speak and I believe that's the best way to go about it. It's a discussion. And then, Mr. O'Rourke. Can we just clarify the voting on this? This is for you. This is a copy of the front of me.
 the amendment again so the all the Israelis offered an amendment for a second but I believe all of them came back and that would remove the requirement just item 15 to remove the requirement for fire suppression for systems for town hall developments within that extension article on fire suppression for systems for town hall developments period it would be sunset conditions right now
 So the no vote, Your Honor, would be in favor of everything, not just the no? So if the amendment is not supported, what is the point? What counsel would react to that? Who would have that vote on that? Vote twice. So either vote to make the amendment, or vote twice. I don't know if this is just a sense of the verdict. I'll prove the composure of the amendment. I'm not sure that they should vote.
 Is there a discussion on the procedure? Mr. I apologize for interrupting. Every time we adopt one of these codes, there's a numerous point of clarity in the record. There are numerous amendments to National Residential Code. Those would all remain. The memo for the amendment that I'll mention really clarifies that the additional amendments to Section R3 Mr. Any other discussion on this?
 No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
 so the amendment fails so this is the proposed amendment from all those from all the trail of fails which leaves the language that was um item 15 is still on the agenda and subject to approval of the passage is there any discussion
 Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second
 No. Is the letter on? Thank you, Your Honor. I have the committee report recommending approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,057,639.00. I also have the approval of amendments to the revolving loan fund program, the property watch factory and other possible amendments. I have the approval of the second amendment to the point that the development agreement with record court
 I have approval of the property tax and value ordinance. The amount of $53,724,472. And I have the approval of the 2015 tax living for screen and print purposes. And I place these under the ballot. Have you passed it? So number 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 51, 52, 51, 52, 52, 53, 52, 53, 52, 53, 52, 53, 52, 53, 52, 53, 52, 53, 52, 53, 54, 54, 54, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47
 Second. The move's seconded by the Board of Trustees, and I move that the Board of Trustees move by all members of the Board of Trustees signify the same. I say that we will just place the letter passing the order for passage of the statement. So, no roll. Trustee? Aye. Mike Romero? Aye. Beth? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Tate? Aye. Beth? Aye. Akilah? No. Two.
 So that's 12 for item 2. That's best, thank you. So I was in China and they had a call. I was going, that's a joke, right? I know there's a lot that happened.
 A lot that happened while I was in China that I appreciate. I was getting back on Monday evening when Council was just getting concluded with a meeting and discussion. I've talked to a number of aldermen last week about some of the things that occurred and transpired and I just want to make a quick point to say the way I look at it, there's three different topics. One of the topics, Olin, Shirely and I chatted just briefly about the first item for discussion purposes.
 Next week it goes and grabs the question about collaboration and this conversation that's come up about Metro policing. Just very quickly I would say that is a different issue from the question about whether we change our ordinance on how we hire the chief and who's the authority, whether the commission
 And then the third issue is any proposed changes to the makeup of the commission itself. So I'm happy to have conversations one-on-one with all the men. I'm happy to discuss it, any of those issues. But I thought specifically, and I've had some follow-up with the sheriff of Caruana last week after I returned, and with some of the folks in the business leadership for Transport Rockford that have been interested in this. And the main focus of those discussions was,
 on the issue of collaboration and collaborative policing. So what I hope to do, just to make sure everything is clear, is next week when the item comes up, I will be asking our police chief.
 and myself will be available to just talk about a number of the collaborative efforts that we've been engaged with over the years with Winnebago County and the law enforcement agencies. Sort of bring us up to date on the status because I don't think that was given a fair discussion in the discussion that's happened so far. And then number two, to talk about what are the issues that might be around the state
 either collaborating further in policing or specifically this topic of what some people refer to informally as metro policing because I think it's a very loaded term that may be different things to different people. I just think it's important for us to utilize our committee structure and have a counseling conversation and go from there. In terms of the other issues that have come up around the city, I think it's important
 commissioners there's nothing up tonight I'm happy to entertain again discussions despite what may have been appeared in the newspaper I haven't referred any I've only made one referral to the commissioner and that one is still pending over there's been none others not made and if I do make another one it will be you'll hear from me here first in terms of any kind of official and formal recommendation any other changes on the commission
 So that's all I had tonight. Just wanted to also, I guess one other thing, just note the Park District's going to be holding a press conference this week. Invitations went out around some additional news around the success and successes that are happening at our sports court facility downtown, which is good. And I would just point out that when I was in China, there was a tremendously positive reception
 additional amount I think that's going to continue to support the project that Gorman has for the hotel and conference center downtown. Mr. Gorman I believe will be there at the press conference this week with the park district and the CBB and others. I look forward, I will not be there, I've got a previous commitment down in Peoria actually at a law enforcement conference with other mayors and public safety leaders in the state
 But I will look forward to answering any questions that the council has individually or otherwise. Thank you very much for their awesome reports. All amended. Thompson, Kelly. Thank you. First of all, I'd like to make it more than fair that it involves going around for the senior citizen luncheon to sign up and your money, especially your money.
 And also, if you're going to be serving this year, we'd greatly appreciate it. And if you have any questions. I also, last Monday in the council, in making some phone calls, I really do appreciate the chairman reading in that the discussion was going to start with police stations, with the sheriff. I would also have to include that it should start with other police departments as well.
 We can't compare Metro Policing with McChesney and Lusk Park because they don't have one. If you're going to talk Metro Policing, we need to talk to other police departments like Turn Valley, South Beloit, Beloit, and other police departments where you get a better feel and understanding of Metro, Metro Policing. Not what someone thinks it should be, but the reality
 I also talked to the small service towns in Chicago police department. And I got told a few times out of it, depending on individuals giving up their turf and combining their efforts. But I got really good response from Cherry Valley police in regards to the city and cooperative in working on cases as well as South Beloit.
 departments to get that input and I hope our discussions can be extended beyond this council because we don't have that knowledge that's needed, nor do the sheriffs, nor the police chiefs. We have to extend knowledge in order to get something that's going to be effective and something that's going to be I know the sheriff has made a comment that he didn't want to talk to the great minority government about it because we got to pick them out. Well, that's our job.
 And I'm going to voice my big box. So I want to make sure that we look at all that and have that discussion. Thank you. Thank you for the . I'm wondering if we as a following can take a poll regarding when we would like to have budget meetings. Last Monday for a half hour, I don't consider that a budget meeting.
 It doesn't give me enough time personally. And so that's how we're gonna have our budget meetings for a half hour before council. I don't expect anybody to think I was going to test the budget. Cuz I won't, not put under that much pressure, not being able to ask more questions. So I'm wondering if we can all really put in
 the effort to put in a time of availability, work with work for everybody, because I just won't participate for a half hour on a Monday. So I would just make a point that we've done different ways over the years, and I will defer counsel on that because I think it's just important to be able to terminate before this very important issue gets discussed. So if folks want to go back to a Saturday, this is getting started, I'm happy to support that.
 So
 that we would introduce an informal facility and try to get communication to council members this week in terms of the outcome of the financial plan for our event. I'd like to hear your thoughts. Thank you. I agree with my colleague. I can't take an hour, half hour, an hour at a time for budget. That is a very important thing that we're coming up with. We're talking about what our departments have to spend next year
 on the city of Rockland. And I know that it's been taught that we should have that as a budget night. And I feel if we could do that and then the following Saturday have a two or three hour, that should be able to answer all of our questions and give us
 a good close rather than a day here and then two weeks down the road. I'm sorry, I'm an old lady, I'm going to forget what we talked about two weeks ago. I sort of remember what we talked about last week, but November 30th I can tell you I'm going to need a week. And it's too important a subject to just have this people rock their feet, oh well, hit the budget time, let's just ask what they're asking for, because you know I don't need to do that.
 The other thing is, I went to a meeting last week. It was a hearing in the advocacy in Georgia building. Judge Collins was in charge of it. It's for domestic violence and sexual assault. And I brought something with me. It says, together we can end domestic violence and sexual assault. That's such a simple, simple statement. And down at the bottom it says, no more.
 I think every one of us has reached a point in our lives in some time for some thing that we've said, that's it, I'm not doing it no more. If we can just say no more, we have to help our police departments. Our firemen also have this. They are involved in this. Every one of us sitting right here in this semicircle has been touched in some way by domestic violence. And it's time to say no.
 Thank you, Tamara. I just wanted to make sure that I read into the minutes this letter from Terry Siebert regarding RHA and North Town. I wanted to be a part of the record. And I also wanted to mention that there was a shooting on Taylor in my ward.
 The shooting went on for several minutes and the person that you're talking to called me. It wasn't a regular gun. It was some kind of gun that several shots were gone at one time. And, of course, the neighborhood was terrorized. And I'm hoping that we can do something. This is not the first call that I have received from the neighborhood, but this is the first call that I received where the shooting went on for several minutes.
 So I'm hoping that we can do something not just in that area but several areas of the city. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Your Honor, I just wanted to comment on the finance meeting retreat time. The reason that we thought we'd try the Monday that we normally have finance committee was we were not getting a good response as far as how many people were there.
 I thought I'd do something with Brian. I'm fine doing whatever the council wants to do. I don't have a strong opinion one way or the other. I'm trying to get meetings where we have the majority of our all of them. The reason we have, we used to have finance budget discussions at finance committee even back when the city council used to have all of our meetings at the same time on Monday nights.
 complaint obviously that was that many aldermen couldn't be a part of that or it was difficult for them to be a part of that because they had to go to their own committee meetings. So that's when we started on our standard retreats. And then when we were, Director Black and I were talking about what the fact is now that we've come back to an opportunity where all the aldermen can attend on a Monday night. The normal finance committee meeting is happening. And we decided we started a half an hour early, gave 45 minutes every other week to
 that it could be a possible better way to get to really hear all of the information. So if the majority of the aldermen want to go back to a Saturday retreat as opposed to the Monday nights, I mean, I've got to confront them with that. But I do think it was a better way to have the majority of the aldermen there. We would present different topics each time. We've got several Mondays before the end of the year as well as the Monday retreat coming up.
 And you know, the last one would not have ended after half an hour if there were more discussion, but the aldermen didn't have more questions of the public works department on what they were proposing, so that's why I had to get it earlier than I would. So I look forward to hearing from the majority of the aldermen and what they prefer. Thank you for the discussion, sorry, for the officer's reports. So this is Mr. Elliott.
 I'm on the number seven, and I'm finished business. Committee reports may be over.
 2. The committee recommends that the zoning board of appeals be reversed, thereby recommending that the city council deny the variation to reduce the fence height 16 to 19 for an off-door seating area on the north side of the building as 7401R described. Number 2, the committee recommends that the Liberty Tobacco Advisory Board be reversed, thereby recommending that the city council deny the sale of liquor by the green in conjunction with the restaurant bar.
 Denial of sale of liquor by the treatment in conjunction with an outdoor beer cart. Denial of sale of a package of liquor in conjunction with the restaurant bar video game at 7401 Arditch Drive, 100, posted to the boardroom of Thompson Cassidy. Thank you very much. For the press, the issue of bar items number 7812. Is there a discussion? I'm sorry, who's that? Murphy? Becker-Mayer? Aye. Cross? Aye. Thompson-Pelly? Aye. Noto? Aye. Kemp?
 I'm going to ask them all this other question staff.
 figure out there's one I am resolution proving that the assignment of the free version subject satisfaction of all conditions the problem in the market for consideration that's okay I don't believe in you I I thank you I would ask that this better be placed up for a discussion
 Your feet. Aye. Make a motion. Aye. Sister. Aye. Aye. Feet. Aye. Aye. Beth. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Torelli. Aye. Go ahead. I have a question. Your Honor, in the following, the shotgun state line of slaughter side scheduled for Thursday, December 9th, is the system a little bit under? Second. Thank you. This is a motion. I need one shotgun state event. All right. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 and then I'll take this out and call it a day. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an award of RFP for MLA, Need Management and Care Works, for a one-time set fee of $5,000.00 for $2.77 per employee per month. I have an award of RFP for insurance and road bridge services, to Coyle Alley for an annual flat fee of $26,500.00 for 3% annual adjustments. I have a resolution to take proposals for environmental consultants to perform environmental assessment work
 for an award, EPA has gotten a grand award of $20,000. I have an engineering agreement, a commitment to herself, main phase, two planes and phase three construction in Cedar Street to Chesman Street with Pisman Incorporated for $75.53 and I have the tax base and the proposed property by executive. I don't have that information. He's just reading from the community office that posted that information.
 10-0-10-2-1-2-5. All right, there's only three. There's only three on my line. And there's only three on her line. That's fine. That's a great website. Thank you. Now, there's only three on her line. Thank you. Thank you. That was on the website. You can read it here. I'll get that. That's it. She's got three of her. This is bigger.
 I've got five. I showed all five that he read. What was the November electronic version? So does it make sense to show the electronic version on the 3? Your Honor, she could be under Roman numeral 12, which lists three items. Okay, thank you. Can I ask you something? So again, just to make sure we're clear, this is the...
 We have an agenda, the rule 10 is the committee. That is over here for five more weeks then. I'll just make sure this is good. For item one, the board of the committee on file for $175,000. And she said we could . Next is the award of RFP for insurance services. highly. For a flat fee of 26,500.
 That's the resolution to take the proposals required on the solace of the war. The form part of the assessment were funding source, US EPA, and the engineering agreement. The two phase two plans of construction. The for design engineering construction operation for an additional $75,000, greater than $65,000. $65,000 for $1,700, which is $6,700, quite a lot of tax paid in the full
 I want to lay over to the results here are I'm sorry I want to lay over number two second label with the that I'm going to have to resolution I would love to say it's a resolution or
 or or or or or or or or or or or
 the company that we did. And there was a meeting set up and unfortunately it was canceled because another meeting was scheduled. But I do plan to get with Mr. Black and Mr. Hayes to discuss my concerns. Because they are major concerns. Thank you. The other item is for passage. I'm sorry, the discussion was seen before the meeting. Is that a piece of paper?
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 12A, we have three items. Number one, an ordinance for the amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Rockford and the Greater Rockford Airport Authority. This is the funding and facilitating the operation and lease of AAR, corporations and ROs.
 Second item is an ordinance for the 2016 draft annual action plan for the community development block grant, home investment partnership grant, and emergency solution grant program. And the last item is an ordinance for the approval of a certificate of consistency with the consolidated plan for HUD homeless competitive grant. First, I ask that we suspend rules. Second. Motion to second.
 12, 8, 1, 2, 3, all those in favor release the item. I step, it was just a minute. Thank you, I'm going to get out of place. Items under Bill 12, 8, 1, 2, 3, all those in favor. That is all for the passage of this discussion. Thank you, Mayor. Item number two, certainly in support of the CDBG application, the close the home emergency solution, but as it comes to the CDBG, I'd like to,
 us to focus over this next year before we approve this again next year to really work and see if there's a way that we can limit that amount of money that we're spending on staff and the administrative allocation. When it comes to these monies, I feel there has to be some way that we can reduce the amount of money over the next several years, not in one big chunk, but I think that's
 maybe five hundred percent each year so that we can put more of the money that we're receiving back in the streets into the people's hands that it's intended to come. Just as a suggestion, it's sort of a regular way, I would suggest half the line or so on the other should bring this up, this difference in sequencing, so what happens when you have a sequence a lot of the discussion doesn't occur
 until we get into the start of December. So that's what I would suggest, we really want to use the knowledge from either of the three other sources to come out with a general thought about how to replace the stat. Now, I see what you do, it's a significant point, and I hope that there is no discussion, but the best time to take a look at it is when there's a really good press write general thought concerning this committee and the rest of our process. That will be another discussion. If we're going to have a third place call, go ahead. No one too, I am the rest. Aye. Dr. Merritt? Aye.
 I I I well 17 I I we had so
 well I I I
 and the money in the first row of taxes. The year beginning January 31, 2020, that ordinance increased the 2015 tax later to three different purposes. I'm proud to recognize that we have a second limited-time development agreement for demolition services between Rockford and Rockford Corridor improvements. And then I have another one that's not on the agenda that we have a memo on.
 I read this in. Ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of general allocation bonds, sales tax, alternate revenue source, series 2015A of the City of Rockford, Winnebago, Mobile County, Illinois for the purpose of undertaking repairs to the Concourse parking deck in and for the city, prescribing the details of said bonds, providing for the collection, segregation, and application of certain sales tax receipts to pay said bonds,
 providing for the levy of a drug manual tax efficient to pay the principal and interest on said bonds and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof. Mr. Hayden, we aren't voting for this? No. Okay, this is going to lay over until... This will lay over to the date of the... The list should have been in our memo. I'm sorry. This will lay over until November 16, 2050. So, I'm for passing our item. I just want to make sure the suspension of rules. Second. Second. So there's been a motion and a second to submit.
 I'll see you want to. All the things that I will say I. I. I said. I don't have such a thing as. I. I. I. I. I. I. I.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 under codes and regs under big business for the ordinance of the code ordinance for the city. I wanted to know. Which I don't even know. So that would be codes and regs from the numeral 12B1 through 14, 15, one through. 17? Yes. You wouldn't rule it out all of those? Yes, thank you.
 Mr. Hayes? Mr. Bahl? Is there an motion for a review? Meeting 12 sessions for litigation matters. That case is a 7. The motion is seconded to go to the full session. Motion to be discussed in the review of the litigation matters. Is there any discussion? Murphy? Aye. Pesce? Aye. McEwen? Aye. Hudson-Ton? Aye. Huber? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely?
 The motion carries.