2021 and with us this evening is chaplain Kenneth Henley to provide us with our invocation. Let us pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father we ask tonight that you come into this chamber and help make the decisions that be best for Rockford, for the citizens of Rockford and
 And, Lord, that we might be able to say thank you, Lord, for what you're doing for us. Thank you, Lord, for the city leaders, the city council. But also, Lord, we want to say thank you for all of our fire department, all of our police officers, all first responders, Lord, that go about their daily tasks taking care of us. Lord, we just pray that you'd have your way in this meeting and everything that's said and done, that we might be able to say it has been good to have been in your presence tonight.
 For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Welcome to the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here.
 Terina? Here. Prunty? Here. Wilkins? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Present. Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. Meek? Here. Bonnie? Here. 12 present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 20, 2021? So moved. Second. We have a motion and we have a second. Is there any discussion on that item?
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes.
 Next up, we have a proclamation for Respiratory Care Day, and I know we have a host of folks with us today. Is Debbie Booten of Rock Valley College, Rhonda Robbins of Swedish American, Megan Gade of Mercy Health, and RVC Respiratory Students from OSF, and Lindsay Ludwig and Ella Padilla with us today. You can come on forward if you'd like.
 It's more fun if you come forward, I should say.
 Whereas, respiratory diseases are a major health problem in the United States and unfortunately the causes of some of these diseases are unknown and may have no cure. And whereas, appropriate therapy can often slow the progress of respiratory disease, relieve symptoms, reduce extent of permanent lung damage and respiratory disability, and avert or delay the onset of life-threatening complications.
 And whereas, throughout the year, the American Association for Respiratory Care and their affiliate organizations, including the Illinois Society of Respiratory Care, work to inform the public about the respiratory care profession and they promote lung health. And whereas, respiratory therapy centers throughout the state host educational screening programs and fundraisers for asthma camp for kids, patients in need of assistance, and other worthy causes.
 And whereas for the past year, respiratory therapists in Rockford have been on the front line planning and responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 And whereas respiratory therapists have been instrumental in preparing at every level, advising government, mobilizing supplies, designing pandemic ventilators, and adjusting protocols to best function under the parameters of this highly contagious disease, while still providing essential care to patients not affected with COVID-19.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Magmar, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim November 15th, 2021 to be Respiratory Care Day. And I'll just say on behalf of all of us here at the city council, thank you for the work that you do every day, but especially these last 18 months. Just really appreciate it. Would you like to share a few words? No. Well, thank you for doing this. We appreciate it.
 and that's about it. Do you want to introduce? Yeah, they can introduce themselves. I'm Debbie Booten. I'm the program director for the Respiratory Care Program at Rock Valley College. I'm Ila, and I'm a student at Rock Valley College, and I'm a student intern at OSF. I'm Rhonda Robbins. I'm one of the respiratory care managers at Swedish American. I'm Lindsay Ledvig. I'm a student at Rock Valley College, and I'm also a student intern at OSF's Anthony Medical Center.
 I'm Megan Gate and I'm the respiratory manager for Mercy Health. Thank you. Next, we will move to petitions and communications. And I believe legal director Myers has a communication from Comcast. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of our Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $415,436.23. Excellent. Thank you.
 Next, we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you so much, Mayor. The planning and under Petitions and Communications Planning and Development Committee Item Number 1, Memorandum from Scott Capovilla, Planning and Zoning Manager regarding the revised Rockford Historic Preservation Plan. This has been referred to the Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have three items. The Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on November 16, 2021, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on November 22, 2021, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 item two the liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on november 16 2021 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on november 22nd 2021 referred to code and regulations
 Item 3 is a memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford liquor code section 3-1 4 2 video gaming permit and terminal stickers required section 3-1 4 3 issuance and Section 3-1 4 4 display referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you alderman Rose next We'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you there first we have on
 a memorandum from jennifer cachapaya executive director of the mayor's office of domestic and community violence prevention regarding the application acceptance of a grant award from the department of justice office of violence against women's 2021 improving criminal justice responses program grant this will be referred to finance personnel committee
 Number two, we have a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the acceptance of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Home-ARP American Rescue Plan Grant Award. This will also be referred to finance and personnel. And number three is a memorandum from Sharice Hunter, Human Resources Director, regarding the general wage increase for non-represented employees. And this matter will also be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up, we have public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the city council on your matter. You will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring. That means that you have to have your comments come to a close. Our first public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our audience, and the citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. I want to say thank you, Jesus. Thank you, Jesus. I was blown away by having 200 emails and Facebooks responding to me about me
 being ill and then the past week three different restaurants that we walked in instead of us paying for the food they gave the food free and told me brother John you need to eat because you we really need you ain't nobody gonna be out here doing the things that you do and now every household I walk into everywhere I go everyone is saying brother John make sure that you eating something so today I finished
 taking the class with the YWCA where participation in the Prohibition Tragedy of Sinking Baby Syndromes. I passed that class. I only missed one question. The question was, I put down one or two. Actually, it's one and under for the baby syndrome. Mayor,
 I want to go straight at you about the regrowth, and this is not personal, but it's how we feel. They stated that decade-long war on drugs and related policy have led to a disproportionate cannibal-related arrest, convulsion, and sentence which have long-lasting legal, socioeconomic, and intergenerational questions on the community of color. This fund is aimed to rectify some of these past harms and to reinvest
 We want to thank you Mayor Tom McIntyre for helping to prove everything that I've been talking about, once them and the dog will come to their light. Right from there, Tom McIntyre said abusive homes are the root cause of major of the city violent crimes after the last crime statistics showed an upward trend this year.
 How will you know if you haven't walked a mile in our shoes? No, the war on drugs has always been a war on us and systematic racism. What plagued our community is unfair housing, jobs, lack of fair education, blocks. They block or control blocks from even having their own business. I'm a pure example. Every gas station, most grocery stores, liquor stores, hair salon, beauty salons,
 are all around by foreigners and most can't even speak English. When you want to open up a business in our community, we have to go through a whole lot of red tape and bureaucratic bull. We was promised 40 acres and a mule plus $100 after slavery. Our lives was bomb busted when they was doing slavery. So our kids and women had no respect for a man because the slave master destroyed the man's credibility to the slave.
 be a father in our own household. We never got past decades over centuries. The power to be a systematic racism that always made money off our misery and fed us kibbles and bits while they make thousands of dollars and millions of dollars. We are not going to wait on any more lies or hangouts. Everything that you said that the money for the regrowth, we already doing and working on doing without you.
 Mayor, can you name one thing that you have done for the Habnots, being making money off of our misery? Don't get mad at me. Ask a question. People in our community want to know. Thanks, Mr. Brantley. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. Kenneth Dickens. Is Mr. Kenneth Dickens with us? Okay. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible.
 And it came to pass that the Lord said, Arise, get thee down into the host, for I have delivered it unto thy hand.
 But if thou fear, go with thy servant. There is a spiritual lesson here. A few with God can overcome a great host without him. There is a growing awareness of minority groups, and their nature varies. The Negro, the Jew, the Catholic. And a Catholic strongholds the Protestant. It grows out of a sense of fairness, and the minority is oftentimes right.
 Insights, courageous pioneering have come from such groups, making openings in history into which the generality of mankind will someday enter. The scorn becomes the respect. That is why I love to mention men like Billy McFarland of Wright Junior College here in Chicago who is teaching advanced manufacturing. And Andy Stettner of the Century Foundation of New York and others, but Andy Stettner
 is shepherding House Bill, United States House Bill 15124 through the United States Congress to where $50 billion will be set aside for advanced manufacturing. These people who will be credentialing our efforts for Westside Rockford, especially opening church schools, and our request for $15 million from the city, the county, the state, and others to teach advanced manufacturing.
 So we won't continue the chaos at our ports, costing billions of dollars. Being fully aware, however, that Rockford's response, given its history, might be like that of the white farmers in the Mississippi Delta, who were reported last week to be replacing black farm workers by white South African farm workers, paying them more.
 South Africa with its legacy of fairness to blacks. That's sad. Ha ha ha. There's not a black person in this room whose ancestors have not experienced this type of justice, if you want to call it that, from whites, South and North, especially the former. But trust me, with Stettner, with people like Billy McFarland, there's going to be a change made to this community.
 I love to quote and sing part of the Black Negro National Anthem. Lift every voice and sing, till earth and heaven ring, ring with the harmony of liberty, that our rejoicing rise is high as the listening skies, that it resounds as loud as the rolling sea. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Brenda Lynn Langdon. Good morning.
 Hope everybody's okay. And just so that you know, John, that's Field Order 17 that was issued by General Sherman during the Civil War is where the 40 acres and a mule came from. Just a little knowledge. I got three PhDs and several other minor degrees, but I was going to be a teacher, my mother talked me out of it, so I went into engineering. But that's not what I'm here for. I'm here as Mrs. Langdon. That's right, I have an upset husband at home.
 If you know me, it's hard for me to mind my own business, but I'm going to preface by saying I was minding my own business. I have a love letter from the city of Rockford. My husband called it a pimp shakedown letter, but you guys call it a citation. So on 4 September, my car caught fire. My nephew was driving it. It was insured. Didn't know that it was on fire until the next day. I'm just going to cut to the chase. The investigator,
 He took a shot at the title and he lost. Let's just put it that way. So I think this is more of a vengeance that he sent me this citation. Madam Fire Chief, I'd like to have a conversation with you about this. I even spoke to my husband's attorney about this.
 So I have no problem paying $129 for this fine, but you need to give me some type of evidence to tell me why I came to this conclusion. And it kind of sounds like extortion when you tell me that final determination of liability against you above described vehicular regulation violation, blah, blah, blah. You cannot dispute this. You can't argue about it anymore. That's pimping. And I thought you were trying to get rid of that.
 I'm not mad at you today, Mayor. I'm just stating the facts. And we'll be friends again after we finish. But I would like to have that taken care of, and I got two more issues, and then I'll leave it alone. Issue number one is that code enforcement has not done anything about myself and a son neighbor. I would like for you to please put a fire under them. That would be great. And also, the fire department needs more money.
 They take care of my husband. They need more money. So run her some money, okay? Thank you. All right. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. Joe Canova.
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor and ladies and gentlemen of the City Council. My name is Joe Canoma. I'm here tonight to speak on behalf of the ILBA, the Illinois Licensed Beverage Association. For those that are in attendance that is not familiar with our organization, let me take a moment to give you a brief description of our organization and the work we do.
 Organized in 1880, the ILBA is the oldest business trade association in the country dedicated to promoting and protecting a retail business that sell or serve beverage alcohol. There are over 2,500 members throughout the state of the ILBA. Members include from tavern and restaurant owners to convenience stores and hotels, to name a couple.
 In coordination with the American Beverage Licensing, the Illinois Gambling Machine Operators Association, the ILBA aggressively lobbies the Illinois General Assembly, the Illinois Liquor Control Commission, the Governor, the Secretary of State, statewide, local, and state leaders. The ILBA is a non-for-profit organization.
 uh... mission council members lost his well as we do to have a fact of working relationships with others for those two successful businesses and i would take the responsibilities now the reason i'm here tonight
 Another focus of what our membership does is to support our local community. When we do this is by raising and donating loans to various charities, business fundraisers, state and local political fundraisers. For this year's fundraising efforts, we are donating an additional $25,000 to some local charities. This is in addition to the $15,000 already donated this year.
 Our membership would like to invite an invitation to you, Mr. Mayor, and to two of your council members or staff to join us for an evening of check presentation to these selected charities from our charitable committee. The event is to be held on Tuesday, December 2nd at 6 p.m. at Forest Hills Country Club. We will have appetizers, cocktails, and local media covering the event. The following eight charities are all local.
 So the money stays local. We will be giving $5,000 to Blue 815. We will be giving $5,000 to the Boys and Girls Club. $3,000 to the Mother's House Crisis Center. $3,000 to the Veterans Drop-in Center. $3,000 to the Easter Seals Academy. $3,000 to the Rock House for Kids. $2,000 for the Christmas for Kids.
 and 1,000 for the Lions Club. Please continue to work with our organization and its members so we can continue our local efforts. Thank you for your time and attention and hope to see you on December 2nd. Thank you. We will do a check here. Is Mr. Kenneth Dickens with us this evening? Mr. Kenneth Dickens? Nope, no, we're not gonna give you guys three minutes. Okay, moving right along.
 Next up, we will go to new committee reports. We have Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Meeks. Thank you so much, Mayor. Item number one, the committee... Oh, sorry. Sorry.
 I'm in the wrong spot. You're good. Item number one, committee recommends approval of renewing the agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the Rock House located at 1007 15th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And item number two, the committee recommends approval of the...
 renewing the agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the Rock House located at 1233 Revell Avenue and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you thank you so council we have two items before you this evening is there any discussion on these two items seeing none clerk could you please call the roll Alderman Logman aye Toomberg aye Frost aye Tarina Frunty aye
 Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Next, there's no items under code and regulation committee, so we'll move to finance and personnel committee. Alderman Frost? Thank you, number one. The committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of
 $4,977,309.09 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on November 8, 2021. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the releasing of a findings decision in order on the property located at 1226 Kent Street.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the lease agreement between the City of Rockford and B Money Appiaries, LLC, for the property located at 16XX North Lightfoot Road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the 2022 fee schedule. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number five, the committee recommends approval of the 2022 through 2026 capital improvement program.
 Thank you. There's five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Alderman Frost? Your Honor, I would ask at this time that we lay over number three. I'll make a motion to lay over number three. Motion to lay over item number three. We have a second. So that will automatically be laid over until our next meeting. So we now, Alderman, have four items before you. One, two, four, and five. Is there any discussion on items one, two, four, and five? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logan. Aye. Aye.
 Toomer? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Abstain on item two and aye on the rest. Prunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? No on three, aye on the remaining. Three is laid over. I'm sorry, then aye on all the others. Thank you. Bonney? Aye. Brown?
 item number one 13 eyes item number two 12 eyes one abstain item number four and item five or 13 eyes excellent thank you uh next we'll go to unfinished business and we'll move to uh code and regulation committee alderman rose thank you your honor under item one the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the city of rockford liquor code for a new sip and shop liquor license classification class ss the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Item 2, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Section 3-54, Persons and Premises Not to be Licensed, paragraph 13. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 3, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a crematory in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 215 North 6th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 4.
 Item for the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals denial for a variation to reduce the required parking spaces from 77 spaces to 64 spaces and a variation to eliminate interior landscape islands and open green areas between a parking lot in variation to eliminate the required shade tree requirement in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 3707 Auburn Street
 And then finally, item five, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco shop in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 3707 Auburn Street. Subject to two conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Is there any discussion, council members, on these items? I'm going to start this way and move all the way around. Alderman Logerman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Spoken with the business owner in question reference item number one. No longer needed at all, so I'm going to be voting no. Appreciate the discussion and conversation from all my colleagues here. Thank you, Mayor. Excellent. Thank you. Alderman Toonberg. Thanks, Mayor. I'd like to make a motion to lay over item number three, please. There's been a motion to lay over item number three, and did I hear a second, Alderman Frost? And so that item is going to be automatically laid over. Oh, thank you.
 it's good to have a legal director here thank you uh so there is a motion uh if we can just take item three now uh there's a motion to lay over item number three that's been seconded that'll need a vote is there any discussion just simply on item three alderman tumor yeah maybe i compelled to clarify on the why it's being laid over again he's just putting together some information for the uh other aldermen
 regarding some of the information on what the agreement is. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. So there's a motion, there's a second. No further discussion. All those in favor say aye of laying over item three. Aye. Those opposed? Item three has been laid over, so now we just have four other items remaining. Is there any discussion on those four items? Alderman Bonney? Thank you, Mayor.
 I just, so we have two, I've talked about this at the last meeting, we have two proposed amendments to our liquor ordinance on the agenda. And we have had some aldermen who have expressed concern about whether or not we are, whether or not, that we should deny sip and shop simply because of who's requesting it.
 and I, you know, I don't want to read too much into those statements, and I have some concern about that as well. Why are we changing our liquor ordinance to address, and now the business owner has withdrawn his interest, so it's somewhat of a moot point, but as it relates to persons not to be licensed, I guess I have the same question that other aldermen had, and I somewhat shared, which is,
 We apparently just have an employee who's requesting this and Other than the fact that we don't seem to have any Clamor for it. It's only to the change would only be to benefit employees. It doesn't at least directly affect the general public and
 the only i don't i haven't heard a compelling argument for why we should do it other than that our current ordinance is more restrictive than the state law but nobody seems to have an understanding of why we have a more restrictive ordinance than the state law so i i just don't have i don't feel like i have a good reason to vote yes for this
 are those questions or yeah well yeah yeah okay well i mean i don't know that they're they're not new questions yeah i mean all that staff but i would just say broadly one is there's one employee now we and i would say a couple of things and i'm not saying you inferred this but our employees are also citizens of brockford and two we have a number of employees who do own property in our and
 We're bringing this up because one has brought it up recently, but there has been others in the past And I'm assuming there will be in the future, but Mr. Cagnone, would you like to add anything?
 Thank you, Your Honor. No, I believe you covered it. The only thing I would add is that these are policy changes to our code of ordinances that would be applicable to everybody. And I think our council should review it as such, regardless if it came from an individual staff or an elected official. That's typically how legislation gets proposed. Staff will bring it forward. We'll prepare a recommendation process.
 hopefully provide education in regards to the pros and cons for it so that you as the elected officials can make a determination and whether you support the policy or not there any further discussion on the four items before us alderman Quinones yes thanks for let me speak on item number one there is enough liquor license for bars already and more coming where no minors can go in and
 I hate to see minors watching adults drink alcohol at small businesses, places where there's no designated area for adults drinking alcohol in. And this could put more burden on the police department to enforce. So for this reasons, I would be voting no against this. Thanks. Alderman Meeks, did you have a statement? And then I believe Alderman McNeely, did you have your hand raised here?
 yeah really quick i just wanted to state that as um alderman quinones just stated there are several reasons why uh many of us have opted to vote no for item number one for shop and sip not just the one reason that you presented alderman bonnie so i just want to be very clear that there are many reasons why some of us are voting no thanks uh alder woman mcneely
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number two, I received some calls and I did speak with Attorney Myers regarding this, but I think that this is such an issue publicly that maybe we can have an explanation tonight on it as we prepare to vote for it. Thank you. So certainly, Director Myers, could you provide that explanation?
 On number two. Sure. On number two, what our code says right now is that neither any employee elected official or any employer elected official can have any direct or indirect interest in any way in any liquor license or liquor business in the city of Rockford.
 That's a bit more strict than the state requirements. My understanding is that it was amended in 2008 to add that strict more stricter language for the indirect language The state statute does prohibit direct and indirect representation herbs our interest in aldermen and
 police officers but does not extend to all indirect interest by all City of Rockford employees. So this would essentially more align with what the State of Illinois statute says. I guess I can go along. The way that's interpreted is if you own a business in Rockford, Illinois, you still would not be able to own, if you're a City of Rockford employee, you could not own a bar or a restaurant or any other business that's serving alcohol.
 um but right now without having indirect uh interest if you own a property or properties you are then precluded from renting that out to anybody any other business that would do that so any restaurant or bar and we do have a number of of employees from time to time that are investors in commercial property and it does uh prohibit them to a certain extent from uh renting those out to who they'd like to so um
 that's what the ordinance would do allow them to have easier access to to market those commercial properties okay thank you alderman McNeely did you have a follow-up thank you so directly or indirectly so if if a police officer owns a rental property that has commercial commercial area in it
 and leases it out to someone for the purpose of a bar tavern. He or she could legally do that, according to the law. So under the amendment, yes.
 believe that they they would still be able to have in an indirect that would be concerned indirect interest but they still are prohibited from having a direct interest in the in the business meaning the ownership profiting from the business itself how would we given that the state looks at the liquor license for police officer and firefighters differently how does a person then address that
 to accommodate the state as well as the city. Well, that's a good question. So, I mean, the... It appears to me that this is a conflict for certain individuals, and I'm not sure how that individual would address it, and I certainly don't know how to explain it to the individual because there is a conflict between...
 What the state says not the city is saying if I'm understanding correctly, right? So right now there is a conflict in that the city goes further in restricting interest employees interests in these businesses This amendment would take a bit of a step back and be more in line with what the state with the state does employ any any person a
 whose license or first of all you just want to remind everyone that it still prohibits a direct interest in any license you still adopt you'll be a city of rocker employee and have a liquor license it's more for the indirect interest that one step back so I don't think that the state would necessarily be in a different position than we are to sort of police that because you know it is difficult to
 it's more difficult to control because you don't know who's on every liquor license which is probably why the state doesn't have it in their own statute all right thank you very much well the room bonnie um i thought that at the last meeting police officers were still exempt
 Thought alderman McNeely's question was if a police off unless I didn't hear your question correctly the police officer owned a Property could they then lease to a liquor? Store owner. I thought that that is still exempt would be counseled the mayor and police officers I
 i unfortunately don't have the the ordinance in front of me i believe uh attorney mcneil probably presented that and i don't have my computer down so i i'd have to double check on that my i believe my understanding is though that uh they would they would be able to have an indirect interest you want to lay it over until you get the answer so the only exemptions are council and the mayor elected officials yeah i i apologize i don't have uh the text down here
 I'm more than happy, if the council wants to lay that over, I'm more than happy to analyze that again and send an email or give you a call. We have a motion, we have a second. Any discussion on laying over item number two? No. All those in favor, or did you have discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right, we're whittling these down pretty well. Excellent. So we have one, four, and five open. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 logan remainder timber no one won frost no one won either remainder terena no one won eye on the remainder frunty no one won i on four and five wilkins no one one eye on four and five offman no one one eye on everything else rose no one one eye on the remainder beach no one one eye in the remainder quinones
 No on one. Aye on the remainder. Meeks? No on one. Aye on four and five. McNeely? No on one. Aye on four and five. Bonnie? No on one. Aye on four and five. Excellent. Item number one, 13 no's, four and five, 13 ayes. Wonderful. Next, we'll go to officers' reports. Hilderman-Logman? Thank you, Mayor. I just want to recognize some baseballs.
 Students that we have with us here today, they're participating in a civic responsibilities assignment. So as part of all this and creating an engaged young citizenry, part of their assignment is they have to register to vote.
 attend a government meeting and write an elected official. So a few of you might be getting some extra emails coming up here too, but it's all part of the great process of creating a more engaged citizenry. So thank you for all of the good Auburn Knights here in attendance. And this is the quietest I have heard them all all
 Thank you, Mayor. Awesome. And welcome to all of our Auburn high schoolers. Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to thank
 Pastor Martin, Demita Collier, Providence Church, Mayor McNamara, Deputy Chief Joel Givens, Rob Willamy, Director Kyle Saunders, Mitch Leatherby, Tim Hinkins, and Barb Chidley for helping me plan, facilitate, and execute my very first ward meeting. We held that last week. It was really great. We had a wonderful turnout. We had some very engaged residents present.
 And I believe we shared with them some really great information. My mom was happy, so she's like the number one resident I have to please. So when my mom walks away happy, I did a good job. But I did get some really great feedback, but I also received feedback that more people wish they would have heard about it. So I always want opportunities for improvement. So I will make sure that I try and market my meetings better in the future. So we'll start by saying right now to my residents, all the thousands that are listening right now,
 On January 20th, 2022, the next meeting will be at the Ethnic Heritage Museum at 530. So thank you very much. Excellent. Thank you, Alderman Hoffman and Rose and Meeks.
 Thank you, Mayor. I would just like to say thank you to everybody that was involved with the Greentown Conference. It was very interesting. You did an excellent job, by the way. I really enjoyed the breakfast group. I think they really got two elected officials. That was the one program that was really for us. The others were interesting also, but that one I hope we're going to follow up on a lot of the things that they presented.
 And I hope there's going to be follow-up meetings, that we don't just leave it there. And I was very impressed by the teens that came. I forgot what school they were from, but that was very impressive that they brought them to the conference.
 Absolutely. I do know since we have Auburn high schoolers here, there was Auburn High School well represented at it. Also, yes, we will as a city follow up on that, Alderman Hoffman, but also Greentown and the group that helped put that together, which we had staff who was participants of the planning team. I believe they've already scheduled a meeting for, I want to say, January, sometime mid, mid, late January. So there will be lots of follow up on that. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I would encourage every alderman that possibly can to attend. I mean, there was something for everybody. There really was. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to recognize a small business owner, Sonia, who is opening the low cost shopping grocery operation at the Rockton Center. It's taken them a few years to get up and going through COVID, but a lot of good questions and concerns came up.
 on Sunday when we got a chance to go and see the store. And I just wanted to say thank you to them for opening up in our area. But also, when the residents came in, they were pleasantly surprised to see an actual small grocery store, not a chip-and-pop store.
 you know, where you can get your unhealthy items. It's a real grocery store in Rockford's Northwest End, and I hope that citizens give it a chance and try to purchase from there, because the small businesses that we do have, we have to support them and continue to support Pennins and some of those other smaller operations. They're here for us, they're investing, many of them their entire lives
 And so I'm looking forward to seeing them be successful over there and hope people take a look at them. They open up tomorrow, so it will be their first day of kind of a soft opening.
 Wonderful. That's very exciting. Thank you. Alderman Meeks. I just wanted to say first I very briefly attended Alderman Tarina's event, which I thought was great And I think any more people would have been a standing room for the event So I think you did a great job, but I also wanted to thank the Radford Police Department I've been working with them very closely lately Chief Redd
 uh, with the hand, um, Scott Olson, um, Brandon Burke and Matt Warren have all been very helpful in assisting me in some things that have happened in it have been happening in the ward. So I just want to thank you guys so much for taking all my phone calls, emails, and responding to those efforts. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Quinones. Yes. I want to thank the Rockford police department also for putting up more traffic patrols out, uh,
 I hope they keep doing it till we get the city to slow down. I also want to warn the citizen Rockford to also slow down Thanks any other officers reports? Oh just say a huge. Thank you since no one else did it this evening I feel like it has to be done right Kyle we have to say thank you director Saunders, but a sincere thank you for
 Just the amount of work that you and your team put into that capital improvement plan. Largest plan in our city's history, about $250 million going to be hitting our infrastructure over the next five years. It takes a lot of time, a lot of effort and energy to put a plan like that. And I know you didn't just do it, but for your entire team, please let them know we really appreciate it. And thank you.
 With that, we will move to motions and resolutions. And we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item. The committee recommends approval of the Festival of Lights. This event is scheduled for the following dates, November 26th through November 28th, 5 to 11 p.m., December 2nd through the 5th, 5 p.m. to 11 p.m., December 9th through the 12th, 5 to 11, December 16th through the 19th, 5 to 11, December 20th through the 23rd,
 from the hours of 5 to 11 p.m., December 24th, 24 hours, December 25th, 24 hours, December 26th, 5 p.m. to 11 p.m., and December 31st, 5 p.m. to midnight. This event will take place at Sinissippi Park, located at 1401 North 2nd Street. Excellent. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? All those who are in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign.
 Next up, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Mayor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for rock salt, bulk road salt, and Compass Minerals America of Overland Park, Kansas, for an estimated $1.5 million.
 purchase of $1,150,416. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the street division operating budget. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of the contract extension for banking services to Associated Bank of Green Bay, Wisconsin. For commercial banking, credit card, lockbox services for water and ambulance.
 Automated pay-by-phone system for water bills, purchasing and AP cards, and the city's line of credit. The contract amount is $22,100, estimated annual net gain after earnings, offset fees paid.
 The contract duration is three years with two possible two-year extensions. Approval is for the first two-year extension. The funding source is the finance department operating budget and the water fund. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the city yards and improvements to Fairgram of Rockwood in the amount of $51,200. The project is estimated to be completed in October 2022. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan Act funds.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the Madison Street improvements to Ferrogram in the amount of $194,870. The project is estimated to be completed in, it says, 2021. The funding source is the sales tax water replacement improvement account.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the East High Zone booster station to Strand Associates of Madison, Wisconsin in the amount of $187,000. The project is estimated to be completed in 2022. The funding source is the water placement improvement account. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the 2022 Water Well Rehabilitation Program to Engineering Enterprises of Rockford in the amount of $69,480.
 project is estimated to be completed in 2022 the funding source is the water replacement improvement account number seven the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the 15th avenue water main replacement to hr green and mchenry in the amount of 154 239.50 the project is estimated to be completed in 2022 the funding source is the water replacement improvement account
 8. The Committee recommends approval of the resolution for the improvement under the Illinois Highway Code 2022 General Maintenance Authorization for use of the motor fuel tax funds in the amount of $3,665,416.04.
 number nine the committee recommends approve approval of the resolution for improvement under the illinois highway code r1 planning council annual funding authorization for the use of motor fuel tax funds in the amount of 76 thousand two hundred ninety dollars i place these nine matters thank you so there's nine items before us is there any discussion on those nine items alderman mcneely
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And item number nine, I'm not sure that I understand that. Can staff please explain that? Yes. Director Saunders? Thank you, Mayor. Alderman McNeely, both items eight and nine are MFT authorization resolutions. Number nine specifically is our annual payment to R1PC as our MPO. Thank you. Any other discussion? No, thank you. Any other discussion on the nine items? No.
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Wilkerman. Aye. Thunberg. Abstain on one. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Abstain on number nine, and aye on the rest. Brunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. No on three. No on...
 8 and 9, aye on the remaining. Item 3, 8 and 9, Alderman Bonnie. Item number 1, 13 ayes, 1 abstain. Item number 2, 14 ayes. Item number 3, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 4, 5, 6, 7, 14 ayes. Items 8, I'm sorry, item 8, 13 ayes. Item number 9, 12 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain.
 Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to new business. Prior to going to new business, so I'm just going to ask for Roman numeral 6B2. An item was laid over because we did not have an answer to a question.
 Just want to make sure that you do have the answer to that question and then if you would like it to come back before you tonight we can do so or if you want it to be laid over we're okay with that as well but just want you to have the answer. Question was posed can police officers have indirect or direct ownership and the answer is no. It's police officers and elected officials are in the same group.
 that cannot have that direct or indirect in this new revised ORDFs. So I just wanted that to be very clear. If that answers your questions, we can certainly bring it back up. But if you still have questions, we can certainly keep it laid over. Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. How does that equate to our fire department? Yes.
 Sometimes they do police service and work. Are they not a part of this? They are not. They are not a part of this. Thank you. Alderman Quinones. I'd just like to know why the police, I mean the fire department is not a part of this city. We like to pick on them. No. I think they're treated the same. Police are treated unique in the state law, therefore they've been treated unique in our local law.
 So I just want to reiterate, I have no dog in this race. I just want to know, we wanted to make sure, A, you got the answer because it was looming out there. Two, wanted to know, if you want it still laid over, that's absolutely A-OK. But if you want to back up and be done with it tonight and vote on it, we can do that as well. Just bringing that before you. Alderman Rose? Just to be clear.
 So the change in our ordinance would only reflect a change for the police department then, is that correct? No, our change in our ordinance would make a change for city staff, which also include fire. Okay, okay. So someone in public works, human services, finance, any of those departments could do it. Elected officials, all of us, and police department are treated separately. Okay, that clarifies it. You guys keep...
 But you can say you may want to just ask the council if anybody has an objection You can keep it laid over. If not, then you can Any other discussion alderman Kenyans, I just wanted one more Clarification here this just doesn't include the fire department If I'm mixed up the police and the fire the same or what? Nope, not in this one. They're not um, I
 So fire department is treated the same as all of our regular city Police are treated like the elected officials again. Okay. So does anyone I'll frame it the way Attorney Meyer said it does anyone have an objection to us bringing this item back tonight? No objection. All right with Alderman Beach and then I'll I really don't have an objection but I I
 I am somewhat concerned because we always kind of put police and fire together. They seem to be a specialized group of our employees. They wear badges. They have a different level of responsibility in many cases than most of our employees do in terms of how they serve the general public, not that the other employees don't, but they seem to be in a class of themselves, the fire and the police.
 They're very important parts of what we do, and they're deputized and so forth. So I am confused why they're not a part of that, you know, and to just vote on it tonight without thinking it through.
 It makes me want to think it through a little more and maybe we're right. Maybe that's okay to be it that way but you know So my understanding and absolutely if that's why I'm asking if anyone has an objection So if we do that's great we can have that that's how we respect that The only reason it's treated differently is I don't think we can actually treat them as the same in our local ordinance because the state law Already says they are different
 Okay, thank you sir, but if alderman I'm good with that We let's do that. All right. We're laying it keep it keep it late. Perfect alderman I mean really did you have any comment now that it's laid over? Okay, great. All right. Next we're gonna move to new business planning and development committee alder woman meets Thank You Your Honor
 And item number one, an ordinance approving the renewal of an agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the Rock House located at 1007 15th Street. And item number two, an ordinance approving the renewal of an agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the Rock House located at 1233 Revell Avenue.
 Excellent. We got two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderman Beach? Thank you. Are both of these rock houses staffed now? Is the staff there? They are. They are. Okay. Thank you very much. Any other discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Aye.
 Prunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Coffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor.
 the first one was denied do we do we go over that one or no we do not okay and the second one's laid over so um item three an ordinance approving a special use permit oh that one's laid over as well so item four is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco shop in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 3707 auburn street all right alderman we've successfully narrowed this work down to just one item is there any discussion on that one item
 No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. Fortinize. Aye.
 Excellent. We'll move on to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you. There's one item, which is number two. It's an ordinance approving the 2022 fee schedule. I place this one item before you, Your Honor. Excellent. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before you? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prentice. Aye.
 Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meek? Aye. McNeely? Bonnie? 13 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a wonderful night.