an invocation from Chaplain Kenneth Henley of Freewill Baptist Church. Let us pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we ask tonight that everything will be done decently and in order the way your word says it needs to be done. We pray that you would be with each city councilman, Lord, as they help make decisions for the city.
 We pray also, Lord, that you would be with our fire and police departments, Lord, as they go about the city protecting our lives and taking care of us and making sure we have as safe a life as possible. Be with them, Lord, tonight again in this meeting, that they might make the right decisions for the city of Rockford. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.
 pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee Logeman Thunberg Frost Thompson-Kelley Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Beck Chiarelli
 10 present. Excellent. Is there a, we have a quorum this evening. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on November 5th, 2018. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing none. All those in favor say aye. Aye.
 Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on November 13th, 2018. Opposed? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. We have no proclamations this evening.
 And we have several petitions and communications. I'll start off with going to our legal director, Nicholas Myers, for a franchise payment update. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of the quarterly franchise fee payment from Comcast in the amount of $443,458.84. Thank you. Next up, we will go to Alderman Chiarelli for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 The first is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on November 20th, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on November 26th, 2018. Second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on November 20th, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on November 26th, 2018.
 Third is the Traffic Commission revised agenda for the meeting to be held on November 28, 2018, and minutes from that meeting for consideration of the codes and regs meeting on December 10, 2018.
 And there's another one, a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Engineering Operations Manager regarding a right-of-way vacation request for 3108 Auburn Street slash 13XX Russell Street. All four of those items will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel with Alderman Beckham.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. A memorandum from George Davis, Executive Director regarding Head Start, Early Head Start, and Kind Waiver Request. Next is a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director regarding Hotel and Motel Tax Extension.
 Next is a memorandum from Mike Hawkinson land transaction officer regarding acceptance of the offer for 26 48 11th Street And then finally was the memorandum from Glenn trommels information technology director regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Park District for records management System all four of these items would will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. I
 Next up we have an information only item in by way of a presentation from the Rockford area venues and Entertainment Authority and I believe we have a number of folks including Craig Thomas Troy Flynn and John Phelps with us Okay, thank you everyone. Thank you. We're back tomorrow. Oh
 Thank you Alderman. We appreciate the opportunity to present to you this year our annual report to the City. My name is Craig Thomas. I'm the Chairman of RAVE. This is John Phelps, our Vice Chairman. Troy Flynn, our General Manager and Gretchen Gilmore who is our Director of Finance. So we appreciate the opportunity to be here. I want to just make a few introductory remarks and then we do have a PowerPoint presentation
 which we will go through fairly quickly with you, recognizing you've got a full agenda tonight. We don't want to take up too much of your time, but I do encourage you to jump in and ask questions. Feel free to interrupt me as we go along the way, but also after this to reach out to us via e-mail or other correspondence, and we'll follow up and answer any additional questions that you have.
 recognizing that we do have some newer faces on the City Council, I want to just briefly take a step back as to who we are and what we do. Our organization is the old Metro Center Authority. It was renamed Rockford Area Venues Entertainment Authority six years ago. We were founded.
 founded by state statute in 1970s on and a companion statute to that was a statute that established the redevelopment fund arm as a funding source to be certain once the arena was built there was adequate funding to fund the operations and ongoing maintenance up the up the arena so on twenty years ago the operations at the coronado in the what's now the be more at the time the Metro Center
 were being handled by separate organizations. At its peak, the city was subsidizing out of the redevelopment fund over $2 million annually to those organizations and that was on top of loans and emergency funding
 in excess of millions of dollars and on top of over a million dollars in unpaid bills that the Metro Center Authority had racked up before there was a change made. And in 2010, the city commissioned a venues committee to study downtown venues and their operations. And as a result of the Raising the Curtain report in 2010,
 Both the city and the county and Loves Park requested that the board of the Metro Center Authority resign, and a new board was appointed, and that's the board that we serve on today. So that was in 2011.
 We're pleased to report, and again, you'll see as we go through this past year, that financially we've been able to make significant strides in addition to paying off the million dollars in backlog bills. We've reduced the combined subsidy from down to – it went down to $880,000, down to $720,000.
 And it's really significantly lower than that because as a result of the recent parking IGA we entered into with the city a few years ago, the net cost to us and loss of revenue on the parking side is about another $430,000 annually. So we're pleased that we've been able to accomplish what we've accomplished in doing so in a fashion that's dramatically reduced inflation.
 Our needs from the redevelopment fund which has allowed those funds to be available to serve some additional needs that the city's identified so with that said we will get to our presentation here and again feel free to Craig you may want to hold that mic because people at home will hear you No, they'll really want to hear you. Yeah, I'm sure they will. Okay. Let's see if I can get this to work Okay, I need to I
 Glenn's coming for you right here. Okay. Okay, so I can just use the keyboard? Perfect. Thank you, Glenn. So this is just on an overview. You'll see, and again, we'll go through these quickly, but we're pleased. We have some services we use to rate how well we're performing in the managing of the venues, both the Coronado and the BMO.
 You'll see that our overall scores are extremely high. We're especially pleased to rank placed first in the best overall experience against 89 other SMG arenas and facilities around the country and the world. SMG is a global management company we use and partner with to manage our facilities.
 And recently the Coronado for the first time in its history was ranked by Polestar, which is really the gold standard for ranking historic unique theaters as a top 200 worldwide theater. So we're extremely pleased that the experience we're able to give our patrons.
 John, do you want to briefly do this? Sure. And Craig alluded to this earlier, how we've reduced the operating subsidy. You can see our operating loss in this last fiscal year was $281,000 approximately. Now, that's before debt service and that's before the city subsidy.
 But contributing to that is we lost $300,000 in parking revenue or additional expenses that we've incurred. So in the absence of that, we would have had a profitable year, which has always been our goal and we're told is something very difficult to achieve with civic centers and theaters.
 But we've been working very diligently to reach that point. The other point I'd like to make is that $300,000 that we are giving up in lost revenue or additional expenses is about 67% of the annual debt service for the parking deck. So the BMO and Coronado are paying the majority of those expenses to support the parking deck there next to the BMO, its renovations. Thank you.
 Here this is a breakdown of our attendance and this is really just informational. You'll see that the varied types of programmings we have at the facilities and what the what percentage of the makeup they have of what we do over there. This is our net event income statute, our net event income slide. You'll see that we continue to see a progression and we are 44
 FY 10 fiscal year 10 versus 18 and increase and that's really with Significant headwinds that we've had the last couple of years on the ice hog side of things It's become more and more difficult to sell tickets And so we've made that up with a lot of other with a lot of other hard work and a lot of their programming that we've had
 This is an event contribution. This is a board we like to see kind of what the mix. We know what we're doing there, but what's contributing to our bottom line by events? And you'll see the breakdown, and again, you'll see the increase over the years there. This is our ticket revenue and rent slide,
 That's up FY10 to 18, 70% and you'll see that there's a general trend up in all of our facilities and over time since 2010.
 Now, it's not just about the money and what we do efficiently with the economics and the resources that the city sees fit to invest in us through the redevelopment fund. But what's really important, we think, as a catalyst of downtown activity and redevelopment is the number of events that we have.
 And you'll see, I think it's on the next slide, the attendance. And again, those continue to increase. We're affording more opportunities for members of our community and those outside of our community to come downtown and enjoy.
 enjoy our venues, but also we're bringing more people in. Those people are coming down there. They're going to the restaurants downtown, the other venues while they're here. So we're cognizant of that. We don't, and we've got a great partnership with SMG, we recognize that not everything we do is going to have the best result on the bottom line. But if it helps our greater mission of being a catalyst for downtown activity, we support it. And that's evidenced by these slides here.
 This, I like to highlight this for you because several years ago, probably
 probably I think it's four years ago now, 2014, with the assistance of SMG, we terminated our existing center plate, which handled all our food and beverage, and went to an in-house through SAVER, through our SMG. We have not only dramatically increased what we offer from a food and beverage standpoint and the quality of it, but the net return and the fiscal savings to our organization can't really be –
 understated it's been dramatic. Next this is just a Oink outfitters believe it or not some of you may recall when we first when the reorganization was done in 2011 Ice Hogs gear was sold out at Cherryvale Mall
 We didn't think that was the best way to go about it, and we've moved it into the facility, and we've had some dramatic increases. It not only helps the bottom line, but it helps to increase the brand and how excited our core fans are about our product. This one is just the IceHawks playoffs. I like to look at this one and point out that
 For years when we were first on the board, it was described to us as a double-edged sword. If you make the playoffs, you're going to lose money. So it's kind of good to make the playoffs, but be prepared for it. Well, our staff took that as a challenge this past year when we made the playoffs. And thanks to the hard work, we were able to make money off of the playoffs. So it was a win-win for us all around.
 John, do you want to gretchen on the capital improvement? Well, I just that we, as I think many of you on the council know, we have completed a study for expected capital improvements over the next 20 years.
 describe some things that are more near term i know city staff is reviewing that going through the numbers before i think there's a formal presentation but that has been a big effort for us this year is to try and get our handle on what we expect we're going to need to spend to improve these and maintain these facilities over the next 20 years
 One thing we've started over the last two years are self promoter events and you may have had the opportunity to attend some of our on stage series. Really some unique things again. These aren't necessary drivers of significant revenue to our facilities, but we think it is affording some people some opportunities to to engage in some entertainment. The otherwise wouldn't. It's bringing activity downtown. It's really shining a spotlight on our venues.
 here's the different some of the different ones Troy do you want to just touch base on on these last handful of slides which really relate to our company marketing Mike thank you well last time I spoke with you is the playoffs obviously we had a really successful push this first slide here is uh I'm gonna get this right is our Facebook reach for the playoffs the
 larger number here,
 19 and a half million people we touched when we were talking about the ice hogs in the playoffs last year and that was partnerships locally That was partnerships from the city turning the the skylights red and all kinds of good stuff to bring the attention So again, we really appreciate that but that's a significant push and these people are seeing our marketing campaign Which is our town our team that was very much a strategic move and in the playoffs It was our time
 So again, Facebook, the analytics that they can deliver, it's really important to know who your audience is, not only so that you can keep them entertained, but that you can know who you're missing. So we've actually put a lot of effort into developing programming that maybe is underserved right now. So you should be seeing some of that coming through in the very near future.
 I saw on social media, we're one of the stronger teams in the AHL. The AHL is the triple A of hockey. So your next step would be the NHL. Our guys would obviously be Blackhawks. And I think maybe, I hope that most of you have seen that our coach...
 started the season probably two games there I'm sorry two months in and is now the Blackhawks head coach so keep your eye out because we have a lot of the stars that are here that will be playing on the ice in the United Center. Again our Facebook 62,000 almost 63,000. Twitter
 Almost 50 and then Instagram is 25 Instagram's kind of the newer trend But we're actually jumping into the next level which is snapchat So if you come down to the building we ask that if you're a snapchat follower that you take a picture It's got an interactive
 lens and filter and all kinds of good stuff and we're cross promoting on that so I don't know if anyone attended monster trucks this past weekend but we put hammy and a ham bony with monster truck tires and we found a couple more audience members for this year so we're really excited about that
 Building. This is the BMO specific. Obviously the numbers are a little less. It's harder to get people as excited about a brick and mortar project as it is of the players. But still very respectable numbers. Everything you'll see is going up, by the way. And then what people are saying. Thank you. Thank you, Troy. Thank you.
 Before I, we buzzed through that pretty quickly. I'm happy to answer any questions, but I do want to thank all of you for your support and your partnership. We've got a great relationship with, I think, this council and we've got a great relationship with the administration and we look forward to continuing to try to improve what we do. We look forward to the discussions over the next several years as our agreement with you to manage the facilities comes up for renewal and we'll open it up for any questions.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. Thank you. I have a couple of questions that I have. You mentioned in your CIP, which I just briefly took a look at today, and a couple of things stood out. And one of them was the locker room update. Is this the locker room at the BMO Harris that was updated how many years ago?
 Well, there's ongoing projects, and a lot of those are in conjunction with discussions of requirements from the Blackhawks. Our affiliation agreement will be coming due with them again, and so we have discussions with them as to their needs and what maybe they're willing to do and what we need to do to maintain the facility up to AHL standards.
 Okay. My other question is that when we discussed this six years ago, correct me if I'm wrong, but didn't we talk about improvements to the facilities, maintenance, the CIP, and that you would incorporate those improvements as you went along?
 We had discussions about continuing to maintain the facilities to the standards to which they are. And it was two years ago, I believe, that our recommendation and our discussions with the city, we thought it behooved it was the first time in 50 years of those facilities that a capital improvement plan be put in place. And we undertook to get consultants in to put that together. So I don't think it goes back. Six years ago was, I think, the general maintenance of the facilities. Okay. Thank you.
 Other comments, questions? Alderman Toomberg. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to, if you could elaborate just for some of the aldermen here. Alderman Beach and I are fortunate enough to sit on the rave board and know all the hard work that you all put in. But if you could clarify just for some of the aldermen here on the...
 Money that would have been normally going to the bottom line of rave the parking but now goes to the city instead and running in the Black if that was if you just just give it a little elaborate on that a little bit more in detail so several years ago came to the attention of the city the county and our organization that the parking deck that is attached on the church street to our facility is
 Couldn't be used to its capacity anymore it had significant needs that needed to be addressed and there were studies done and we don't own that deck and I
 We used to manage the parking in the deck before ABM was contracted with the city. And so there was many discussions with this council and with the administration and the Winnebago County, and an arrangement was reached that that repair work would be done, but in order to provide a revenue stream to pay for the bonds that were sold in order to do that, that
 that we agree to certain costs. We pay a dollar a ticket, I believe. Is that what it is on our drop count? We pay for our our employees to park there and we forego any share of the revenue from the parking for our events that used to be on a revenue split with the city. Thank you. Any other questions, comments, concerns?
 i would just add uh appreciate the amount of time that all of you take to lead the board and really appreciate the increased number of events that you've done i mean not only reducing the subsidy that really hits our bottom line our redevelopment fund but the increase of events the the way that you're marketing the team you're incorporating the city as a whole uh really appreciate that
 And I think that adds to more experiences that every single person Maybe not everyone can afford certain tickets but having a number of different events allows more rock 40 ins the opportunity to see some of the venues that we have and Reinstill that sense of pride that we all should have in our hometown. So thank you. Thank you mayor Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor I've had the privilege to serve on that board as a liaison along with open tumor for many years and
 And I was there when the change came. The old board was replaced with a new board. And I've seen their focus to reduce the subsidy that came out of our redevelopment fund. And their goal was to break it even, which most centers can't.
 and to see them month after month as we serve, the retreats we go on, and the efforts made by this board is phenomenal in terms of the money that comes from this community through that organization. So I want to personally thank you, Craig and Troy and Gretchen and John, I know this is part of the board, for focusing in on that and to hear the fact that our subsidies are so low compared to what they were, that's a big deal to me.
 It ought to be a big deal to this Congress and a big deal to the community. Thank you very much for your efforts. Very proud of you. Alderman Beach, thank you for your kind words. Thanks so much for all your time. Okay, and I encourage, if any of you have questions, send us an e-mail or a call. Any follow-up on the detail, we'd be happy to answer those for you. Thank you. Next up, we have two public speakers this evening. First up, we have Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Tom Nakamara, our audience and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Where do I want to start at? That's when other people tell their history, they come off as being patriots. When other people talk about where they came from and who they are and what their history is, they are called patriotic in America before the European explorers.
 When black people do it, they are labored as militants, they are called rebels, and they are called Afrocentric. That's been the big difference. Our history for some reason seems to have become offensive. I realize that they are going out of their way to omit certain facts pertaining to the African presence. I knew right then and there that we had to do something instead of waiting for someone else to tell our story, so we have to stop being afraid to tell what our history is.
 African-American ethnic group is deeply divided until we start working together We will never be able to achieve our goals for better education job safety living Environments and etc. So right here white privilege is alive and well right here in Rockford Why is it that the YMCA Rock Valley College? Jim Robbins group they charge two hundred dollars and had a Head a signature had an event talking about racism
 They can talk about racism and we can't, meaning blacks cannot. The system has organizations that get paid to live off our misery and poverty. We are not supposed to talk about talk back. I was told by different organizations, youth and others, that they will lie and do whatever they can to shut you down if you stand up to their Donald Trump ways.
 During slavery, over 6 million Africans came across the Atlantic Ocean on a slave ship and over 1 million died along the way. Many of the women and children were raped by their captors. The Mandinka warrior was broken down to be less than a man. One individual that stands out to me is from Roots, Kutukente. He refused a long time, even after being beaten.
 beaten to use the white man's name. They called him Toby. It was against the law for a black slave to learn how to read and write. Even to this very day, a lot of our youth are socially promoted through school. It was not until the late 70s that a black police officer could arrest a white person without another white police officer present.
 Still in part of our great nation today, a black man cannot look at a white woman or talk back to a white woman without being punished. During the beginning of the Civil Rights Movement was the year that I was born in 1955. Emmett Till, a 14-year-old African American boy, was murdered in August of 1955 in a racist attack that shocked the nation and provided account for the emerging Civil Rights Movement, a Chicago native. Till was visiting a relative in...
 money Mississippi when he was accused of harassing a local white woman, which was later learned that was a lie. Today we have a new Jim Crow law was working right here in Rockford. Vincent E. Rideout, and I quote, stated, a random person just came across my mind who I had come across to serve. I'll finish next week. Thank you, sir. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs written by a wise man named Solomon, in the 18th chapter, the 24th verse, it says, show thou self-friendly. And there's a friend who will stick closer than a brother. What I want to speak about tonight, children,
 You are not stupid, and don't you believe that lie? Have you ever thought of yourself as being less intelligent than others? Did other kids at school call you dumb? If so, how did this make you feel about your ability to learn and be considered good students? I know someone who was held back in first grade and lived with the stigma of being academically slow for the rest of his school career. Yes, he had difficulty with classes that focused on reading, math, and writing, but I assure you,
 He was not stupid. He had above average artistic skills, was one of the most creative person I know. Perhaps you know someone like this, or maybe this is similar to your story. Many people simply because they do not excel in certain subjects at school are labeled as dumb or slow and are considered inferior to others. But are they really dumb? Are they inferior?
 in fact inferior or is it just that most traditional schools focus on a particular approach to reading and writing and arithmetic? What about those students who natural ability do not lend themselves to success in those areas? Who and what really is stupid? But there are
 kinds of smarts that people don't talk about. I'ma name them tonight. Recess is over with. School is in session. One, word smart. Two, logic smart. Three, picture smart. Four, music smart. Five, body smart. Six, nature smart. Seven, people smart. Eight, self smart. By broad
 the more I understand what it means to be smart, it becomes easier to understand in what ways I use smart. Find out and use your smarts to become successful. The man I was talking about was James Ellison Jr. He was the first African American Marine to get the Congressional Medal of Honor. He saved my life in a place called
 I also want to thank God for Evangelist Sister Brandy and Pastor Elbert Smith for giving the Transformation speech at the Northlaw Center Thursday and Saturday. We need more people like them to transform Rockland. I also been wanting to tell Mike Williams this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it, and happy birthday my good friend, and I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family.
 Happy birthday to you Happy birthday Mike Williams Happy birthday to you And I wish you many more Thank you for allowing me to speak Thank you Next up under new committee reports We have Alderman Bill Rose for planning and development
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have committee, the committee, I'm sorry. Committee recommends approval of the proposed revolving loan project, Coleman Village building cleanup, additional cleanup and temporary structural repairs, the legal director has prepared the appropriate ordinance.
 And item number two, which is the committee recommends approval of the development agreement for Caney Aerospace. KA 1300 Capital LLC 1300 Capital Drive. Again, those documents have been prepared by the legal director for appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Alderman. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on the two items before us?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Back? Aye. McMilley? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Item number one, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item number two, 12 ayes. Excellent. Both items passed. Next up we have Code and Regulation Committee with Alderman Chiarelli.
 thank you your honor two items the first is the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to chapter 16 article 12 with the city of rockford code of ordinances special events ordinances the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the updated parking fines, and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place those two items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have two items before you. Is there any discussion or questions regarding the two items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkin. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye.
 McNeely. Chiarelli. 12 ayes. Excellent. Those two items passed. Next up, we have finance and personnel with Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have the committee recommending approval of the vouchers in the amount of $11,312,170.91. I have the approval of the modification of the City of Rockford 457 Deferred Compensation Plan. I have the recommendation for approval of the Human Resources Policy and Procedure for Hiring Key Head Start Staff.
 I have the approval of the 2018 budget amendment, increasing the authorized strength of the fire department by hiring one position, a fire equipment specialist, estimated to generate $72,717 in revenue. I have approval of the tax-exempt lease for two ambulances with PNC Equipment Finance.
 For a release rate of 3.77%, annual payments will be $126,090.06 for a term of five years. The total amount of finance is $630,450.30.
 Next is the approval of the tax-exempt lease for self-contained breathing apparatus with PNC Equipment Finance for a lease rate of 3.77%. Annual payments will be $176,979.94 for a term of five years and a total amount of $884,899.70. Next is approval of the 2019 fee schedule. And let's flip it.
 And next is approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the Emergency Telephone System Board. The agreement with the Winnebago County Emergency Telephone System Board is in support of the Computer Aid Design Records Management System project being managed and financed by the City of Rockford.
 Next and then finally we have the approval of the intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County in support of the computer aid design records management System being managed and financed by the city of Rockford. I place these nine items up for passage Thank you. So we have nine items before us. Is there any discussion on the nine items before you say no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? Logoman Toomer frost Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach
 Quinones? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Items 1 through 8, 12 ayes. Item number 9, 11 ayes, 1 no.
 Excellent. Next up, we have officers' reports. I just want to draw your attention to a couple of things. One is I believe every one of you should have received just a copy of the Chicago Tribune travel section, which highlighted the city of Rockford and work that so many have been working on. And I think the article did a wonderful job highlighting that.
 some of the key achievements that so many people in our community have worked on over the years. The other big item is this weekend we have the stroll on state and really exciting for their sixth year. Just want to make sure that those here and those at home are aware that the event starts at 2 PM and goes to 9 PM downtown. There's a parade this year that kicks off at 3 PM and it starts at 9
 south main and green street and finishes at third street and east state street
 And there's a whole host of things for really anyone. It costs $0 for any citizen or guest to attend. And there's everything from indoor skating to horse and wagon rides to fire pits. And there is a tree lighting ceremony and fireworks at 545 at night. And if you want to learn more about the event, you can go to strollonstate.com.
 really one of my most favorite events and I think it's pretty neat that it's already on its sixth year that our younger younger citizens are growing up in an age that this is going to be their norm that they know that their community always celebrates in a way that is free and open for anyone to attend so with that I will open it up to the floor alderman Thompson Kelly thank you first of all I'd like to thank the
 the alderman and also the department heads for the senior luncheon. It was a very much success. You guys did a good job waiting on our seniors. There's always a funny story after every meeting. I was called over to a table and the ladies at the table said to me, well, who's that guy with the ponytail? So I had to bring the ponytail over to the table so the ladies could meet him.
 But he did a wonderful job and he gave them all hugs. Thank you. So I wanted to make sure I shared that. The other thing I want to mention is there will be a very important meeting Tuesday, November 20th at 7 p.m. at District 1 Police Station at 1045 West State Street.
 Um, the, it's an important meeting for the residents as well as the businesses on Auburn Street. Our area has experienced crime issues recently. Come to the meeting and hear what's being done and how we can work together to improve our area. So I would appreciate the residents of that area. Can you repeat the time? The time is 7 p.m. from 7 to 9 p.m.
 And I want to thank you, Your Honor, for taking the time in your schedule to be there to speak to the residents in the area. I also want to publicly thank the Minister's Fellowship for their support and the State's Attorney's recommendations, well, lack of recommendations for our new State's Attorney. I do appreciate them stepping up to the plate, seeing when justice has not been done. Thank you.
 Excellent other reports alderman alderman Hoffman. Thank you your honor Thanks to Rockford housing. I'm getting to travel to various cities to see how they handle homelessness And their low-income housing and I just returned about a week ago this time from Atlanta And I have to say just like when I came home from San Francisco. I was so glad to be back and
 We get so much negative comments, but we are really a great city. As I said when I came back from San Francisco, they had 175,000 homeless every night. When I came back from Atlanta, again, I was so impressed with how we're handling the issue.
 Because we got to a point where we couldn't go out in the evening from the hotel because it was like a gauntlet of homeless people. I mean, it was actually rather frightening, and we got in by dark. We don't see that in Rockford. And I know we have a lot of issues that we have to deal with. But again, I have to say, we're doing some things right. So again, I'm glad to live here. Excellent. Other officers, reports? Yes.
 Alderman Thunberg. Hey, thank you, Mayor, and I appreciate you bringing up that article. That was a great article in the Tribune. I just wanted to bring an email. I'll change the name to protect the innocent from two clients of mine in Chicago who reached out and read that article and said, a good, enjoyable article about the rebirth of Rockford brings to mind the tour that you gave us last year when we visited for a day. Many of the highlights you mentioned are in the article.
 Debbie and I still talk about this enjoyable day. Hope this finds you well. Happy Thanksgiving. Hadn't been in Rockford in probably 25 years, I think they said, until they came up for a meeting, and I showed them around, and to know that they're still talking about that day is hopefully good. So thank you for a great article, and the word's getting out. I thought you were going to comment on how many of the attractions were in the third ward.
 I thought I'd leave that. I knew you were going to fall for that, so I left that to you. Other officers' reports? Alderman McNeely.
 thank you mr mayor and i want to congratulate the public works department for the finalizing with the new building on preston and stanley street they had the event last week so i want to congratulate them on that i want to say happy thanksgiving to everyone um
 and I also want to thank alderman Thompson Kelly for having this meeting on Tuesday regarding the number of shootings and the amount of crime that's happening along the Auburn Street corridor there and I'm sure that the police chief is on top of everything it's just so sad that
 Life isn't as valuable as it used to be I you look at California where the fires are going on it something that people can't control and then you consider the amount of gun shootings where That can be controlled. So Thank you Alderman Thompson Kelly for having that meeting and our prayers and thoughts go out to those in California as well as individuals whose life
 was lost along Arbonne Street from one of those events or throughout the city for that matter. Thank you. Alderman Rose. I just wanted to mention, you know, in regards to some of the crime that's been happening, that we have a lot to be thankful for in our community.
 I get the chance to spend Thanksgiving with sometimes up to 90 family members that come into one household, which is quite a bit, but they come up from Iowa and Kansas and Florida sometimes.
 Um, our community has a lot to be thankful for, like a few of you have mentioned, and I just wanted to wish our first responders, uh, I'm thankful for them and having them here in our community. Um, those that are working at our nurses and doctors, um,
 Alderman Durkee I know you're one of those so thank thankful for you and also you know just for our general public and helping our officers you know take on some of that crime that is going on it's it's those people that are stepping up that are making a big difference in our community and I'm thankful for them too thank you other reports see none we'll move on
 Next up, we have unfinished business committee reports that are laid over, and we have finance committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item, and it is the approval of the 2019 budget and appropriation ordinance. I place it up for passage. Excellent. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the item before you?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Roggeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. There's only one item. Number two. We're on Roman numeral 8C1. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. No, Beach. Alderman Beach. Aye. Hinojz. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 ayes, 1 no. Aye.
 Excellent item passes next up appointments are still laid over to December 5th 2018 then we have motions and resolutions Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Shirely Just one item this evening is the approval of the advisory committee members for the existing building task force Excellent. Is there any discussion on that one item before you say no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? Durkee Aye Moogaman
 Toomer. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. 12 ayes. Excellent. Item passes. Next up we have finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Bear with me. I have quite a few items, but won't try to get through them as quickly as possible.
 First is the award of bid for decorative anodized light pole shroud to Steiner Electric, Crescent Electrical Supply, and Modern Aluminum Casting for an estimated annual value of $75,000. Contract duration is one year with three one-year extensions. Next is the award of bid for 827th Street demolition to N-TRAC Group in the amount of $67,354.96. Contract duration is January 31, 2019.
 Next is the award of RFP for parking management to ABM Parking Services for an estimated annual value for the first year five hundred eighteen thousand three hundred seventeen dollars and ninety nine cents up to eight hundred seventy seven thousand three hundred ninety seven dollars and eighty three cents in year five Contract duration is five years with two additional one-year extensions Next is the award of a non-competitive bid for traffic signal equipment to mobile tracks for an estimated annual value about three and five thousand dollars and
 The contract duration is one year. Next to the award of non-competitive contract for Captain and District Chief rank testing to industrial organizational solutions in the amount of $46,145 for Captain and $37,795 for District Chief. Contract duration is one year. Next to the award of non-competitive bid for slope mowing equipment to Cut Quick Corporation in the amount of $141,582 for two units
 Next is the award of joint purchasing contract for one skid steer loader to Bobcat of Rockford in the amount of $38,343.63 and one forestry chipper to Vermeer Industries in the amount of $62,619.
 Next is the award of joint purchasing contract for self-contained breathing apparatus to air one equipment in the amount of $793,000. Next, the donation of police vehicles to Rockford Area Venues Entertainment Authority. They are decommissioned Rockford Police Department squad cars. Next is the engineering agreement for Roxbury Road lighting to Chastain and Associates in the amount of $79,976.65.
 Next is the engineering engineering agreement for 2019 2020 biennial bridge inspections to hr green in the amount of 176 thousand five hundred eleven dollars and fifty three cents Next is the engineering agreement for state street and trainer road intersection improvements to fair graham in the amount of three thirty four thousand 145 dollars Next is the resolution for improvement under the illinois highway code roxbury roadway lighting
 which requires council authorization for use of motor fuel tax funds in the amount of $700,000.
 Next is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for 2019 general maintenance for street light electric energy hole patching and citywide salt expenditures Which requires council authorization for use of motor fuel tax funds in the amount of three point eight million dollars Next is the resolution for improvements under the Illinois Highway Code our one planning council funding requires Council authorization for use of motor fuel tax funds in the amount of seventy six thousand two hundred ninety two dollars and
 And then finally, extension of the lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Rock Valley College for 424 Buckbee Street. Place these 16 items up for passage. Excellent. So you have 16 items before you. Are there questions?
 In discussion, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, you had your hand up. I did. Item three, Your Honor. Can you pull down that mic just so people at home can hear you? Sorry. I think there was an amendment to that in the committee level. Yes, there was. And that was that we would bring back the one-year extensions after year five for council approval. Director Hannity? Yes. We agreed that every annual extension would come back to council for approval. Okay.
 But it doesn't do should we have that in writing and it's approval As the so this states out of the contract duration is five years with two additional one-year extensions each and each year will require Each year come back to this we can just modify the language of that Ordinance or that resolution. Yes So just want to make sure it's in Documented director Meyer you have that Thank You Tom Alderman Thompson Kelly. I
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Also on item number three, the amount that increases from 518,000 plus up to 877,000 plus, is that an estimate? I know I didn't ask this question during committee, but just looking at it now, wanting to know, is that an estimate of—
 Director Haggerty yes, and if you look at there's detail provided in the Materials that were attached to this item year one is significantly lower because there are credits associated with waiving a final year's payment on equipment that was part of the first contract and then the Essentially not charging the city for some Park Connect equipment as well Mr. Mayor
 Number eight that it's a ward of joint purchasing contract between who were Purchasing we're leasing. We're leasing this you talking about the fire the items that are Yes
 are we leasing this and who are we i believe that's pnc so we are purchasing the way that that are the way that structurally that the leases work we buy the equipment pnc under a lease agreement provides the the funding to pay those invoices we are purchasing this equipment under a joint purchasing contract the original bid was issued by a purchasing co-op out of texas
 and the the local vendor is air one equipment out of south elgin under that that was awarded that contract thank you thank you mr mayor further discussion alderman frost thank you uh with regard to number 14 the switch to fund these items out of the motor fuel tax funds someone had asked me about whether or not that would affect any of the neighborhood ward funds for improvements
 No, it doesn't affect that. What it does is provide our staff more flexibility and latitude. Because if, and correct me if I'm wrong, Director Stockman, if we were to use the MFT dollars, then we have to be held to a number of other standards and a number of other requirements through IDOT. And Director Stockman, you want to add to that? Yeah.
 Thank you, Mayor. That is correct. Excuse me. And this allows us some flexibility depending on how the aldermen want to fund pothole patching to use the MFT funds. If we do not use MFT funds to cover the pothole patching, we certainly don't lose them. They're preserved for use elsewhere. Thank you. Thank you. How does that affect the CIP if we do not use the promoter fuel tax?
 Can you repeat the question so we can hear you? How would it affect the capital improvement plan if we do not use the motor fuel tax? If we do not use motor fuel tax to fund pothole patching, it would add another $1.3 million in 2019, $1.4 million in 2020, to be determined by the alderman how they would want to use that moving forward. Any other questions? Yes.
 That's not the vote we're making tonight. We're voting on if you want to have that flexibility going forward. Any other discussion on the 16 items before us? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. No one for it. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. No one. Sacks on. Chiarelli. Aye.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12 ayes. Item number 6, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 7, 8, 12 ayes. Item number 9, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 10, 11, 12, 13, 12 ayes. Item number 14, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Item 15 and 16, 12 ayes. Thank you. Next up, we have New Business Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Rose.
 thank you your honor uh we have an ordinance approving the revolving loan project coleman village building cleanup additional cleanup and temporary structural repairs for item one and then item two in or an ordinance approving the development agreement for kenny aerospace uh 1300 capital llc or 1300 capital drive place those items up thank you so we have two items before us is there any discussion on those two items alderman frost thank you honor
 Your honor with number one the revolving loan project. This is strictly using the revolving loan fund to make these Temporary improvements that are needed due to the weather. Is that correct? Mr. Taganoni, would you like to add to that? That is correct alderman for us This is the utilization of US EPA dollars through the revolving loan fund program and allows us to prep the beat the building for environmental remediation and
 Thank you. Any further discussion on the two items before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Volkman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 Got two ordinances this evening. An ordinance approving the amendments to Chapter 16, Article 12 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, special events ordinances. Number two, an ordinance approving the updated parking fines. Place those two ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have two items before us. Any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Kinones. Back. McNeely. Shirelli. 12 ayes. Excellent. Those two items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. We have an ordinance approving the 2019 Budget and Appropriation Ordinance. We have an ordinance approving modifications to the City of Rockford 457 Deferred Compensation Plan. We have an ordinance approving the Human Resources Policy and Procedure for Hiring Key Head Start Staff.
 I have an ordinance approving the 2018 budget amendment increasing the authorized strength of the fire department by one position. I have an ordinance approving the tax exempt lease for two ambulances with PNC Finance.
 We have the ordinance approving the tax exempt lease for self-contained breathing apparatus with PNC Finance, Equipment Finance. We have an ordinance approving the 2019 fee schedule. Have an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with the Emergency Telephone System Board and we have the ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County in support of the Computer Aid Design Records Management System.
 to place these items up for passage excellent so we have uh nine items before us is there any discussion on those nine items alderman durkee thank you your honor um on the firefighting specialist we're increasing the strength of the fire department um that is it we're adding an employee or we're adding the uh defined minimum firefighters that need to be on because the chief technician
 Chief Berkson. We're adding one additional fire equipment specialist, which is our mechanic at our fire department shop to bring in additional revenue. Okay. Because the way I read it, I know we have a minimum staffing number and this does not add to that, right? It's just the mechanics. Correct. This is separate from minimum staffing. All right. Thank you. Further discussion on the nine items before you. Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee.
 Logan. Aye. Tumberg. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. I'm one and two. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12 ayes. Excellent. All of those items pass as well. Alderman Chiarelli. No.
 uh no it's not what you can say whatever you want besides just a few words no i just want to wish everybody happy thanksgiving to our colleagues and also we have a new member of our city staff here latisha wallace i wanted to welcome so happy thanksgiving everyone do you want to at least provide us with a motion i'd like to move to go home yes so we have a motion to adjourn is there a second we have a motion in second all those in favor say aye
 Those opposed, same sign. Have a wonderful thing.