Good evening. We're going to call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, November 18th, 2019. We're going to begin with an invocation and we would ask our very own Alderman Beach to provide us that invocation. And for you tonight, thankful for the opportunity to give us a certain warning tonight. A little bit to set us on the right track tonight. We pray.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one and only, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one and only, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. So next up, I'd ask if there's a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on November 4th, 2019.
 Thank you. So we have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Thank you. Next up, we have one proclamation this evening for Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Day. So if those representatives would like to come forward, you're more than welcome to come forward. I'm going to sneak way over here. I'm going to sneak over here. All right.
 Who would like to have the proclamation? Okay.
 Whereas Delta Sigma Theta sorority was founded in 1913 by 22 students at Howard University. And whereas the young women that formed the sorority wanted to use their collective strength to promote academic excellence, to provide scholarships, to provide support to the underserved, educate and stimulate participation in the establishment of positive public policy, and to highlight issues and provide solutions for problems in their communities.
 And whereas, since then, the sorority has clearly distinguished itself as a public service organization that boldly confronts the challenges of African Americans and therefore all Americans. And whereas, over the years, a wide range of programs addressing education, health, international development, and strengthening of the African American family have evolved. And whereas, the Rockford alumni chapter assembled by Soror,
 Cheryl Box is now celebrating their 35th year in existence. So now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim November 18, 2019 to be Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Day.
 So on behalf of the ladies of the Rockford Alumni Chapter, we represent the cities of Rockford, Freeport, DeKalb, and Winnebago County. We would like to thank the city of Rockford for this proclamation. The work that our sorors do in our communities has made a difference, and we have seen that difference. We do have a couple charter members here, and I would like to acknowledge them today. So if you're a charter member, can you please raise your hand so that you can be acknowledged?
 Thank you again, and we look forward to 35 plus more years of serving our communities well. So next up, we will move to petitions and communications, and I would ask that our legal director please provide us an update as it regards to Comcast. Comcast.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of our quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $430,594.26. Thank you, Director Myers. Next up, we have Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Chiarelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items this evening. The first is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on November 19, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on November 25, 2019.
 The second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for that same meeting to be held on November 19, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on November 25, 2019.
 Third is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, our zoning and land use administrator regarding the plat of Kilburn Avenue Boys and Girls Club. And the fourth is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, our legal director, regarding amendments to the city council's public participation rules. All four will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelle.
 Next up, we'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you. There's a memorandum from Kyle Saunders public works director regarding. The 2020 through 2024 capital improvement program in this minute will be referred to the finance and personnel committee.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up, we will move to public participation. We have three speakers this evening. I just remind our three speakers that there's microphones on the back left and back right of the council chambers, and you'll be provided three minutes. Our first public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Matthews, the 10th chapter, the 8th verse, it says, Freely you receive, freely give.
 What I want to speak about tonight, black people are born traumatized.
 Many black men and women today understand the social climate they're living in. It's a time when tension between black and white grows more intense with each day. What Trump policies combine with centuries of systematic abuse and mistreatment by law enforcement and the court system have altered the way black people think and behave. Some feel intense anger and distrust that can manifest itself into extreme aggression and violence, causing them to lash out at anyone around them. Others may find themselves...
 with intense feelings of sadness, hopelessness, and despair that can manifest itself in all kinds of negative, dangerous, and detrimental behavior. While many may dismiss these things as just stresses associated with being black in America, from a scientific perspective, the problem is much deeper and goes back more than 464 years.
 The definition of epigenetics reads as follows. The study of changes in organism caused by modification of gene expression rather than alteration of genetic code itself. In more simplified terms, epigenetic is a study of biological mechanism
 that alter genes and those alterations can be passed down from one person to the next for generations. When you consider the horrors of slavery combined with the modernized version of a slave-like existence that black people continue to live under today, for all intents and purposes, black people are essentially born traumatized and have been for centuries, said Dr. Kenneth Nave, a Chicago-based internist, epigenetic.
 Genetic means beyond genetic, so to speak. This isn't science. This is solid, well-documented science on how environment pathology impacts cellular mechanics at the epigenetic level. Dr. Nave has dedicated years of his professional life to this study. What scientists have found is suffers of environment trauma experience a change in genetic function that are directly related to the epigen, which sends message for change to the gene through enzymatic process
 that attach a protein to certain genes change the way they function. Dr. Nave explained that once a person finds him or herself in a particular environment and experiences certain trauma, that individual is classified as person zero. And the cellular genetic change that individual experiences can then be passed down to their descendants. The key thing to understand is that even though those altered genes have been passed down, they remain dormant until something triggers them to wake up. Once that happens, not only does it affect
 a change in that person. But if he or she has children, now they will be affected because of the condition that triggers these autogenes. But think one thing about God. He always has a way to solve a problem. It says in Romans, be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. You've got to change the way you think if you want to change the way you act. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tech Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm on freestyle, but I'm also going to – the Lord working the serious ways. He may not be there when you want him to, but he's always on time. Congratulations, Delta, because I need y'all help. We have a lot of – we have a high number of students that's being suspended out of our school system. So I went and did my homework and found out that just in Rockford,
 or is that all over the United States? What I found out is black girls are more than twice likely to be suspended from school as white girls in every state and it's not because of more frequent or serious misbehavior. Black girls face high and disproportionate suspension rates across the
 country. It's not because they are misbehaving more frequently than other girls," said Nell Cosby, director of the education at the Women's Law Center. This uneven discipline is often the result of deeply engraved racist and sexual stereotypes that push black girls out of school. Black girls are five times more likely to be suspended than white girls. The report found, and they are also more likely to receive multiple suspensions than other genders or
 of students. A stereotype of black girls and women as angry or aggressive and promiscuous or a hypersexuality can shape school officials' view of black girls is critically harmful ways. These three authors wrote drawing on research from African American policy. As a result, black girls are more often punished for challenging what society considers feminine
 report i i have to conclude things likely being candid or assertive talking back to teachers as well as less severe transgression including chewing gum and dress code violation i got a nine-year-old girl that's on probation got an 11 year old girl that's been suspended
 just about every week in the school system. Now we got an overpopulation of the, when the kids get kicked out of school, where do they go? If they can't get in one of these alternative programs, then they lingering out there in the community.
 ultimately brought up to me that homeschooling. Well, we got a lot of single moms, more than 80% of our single moms, some of them that haven't finished high school, how can they homeschool? Then I look at the Deltas, I'm calling out the AKAs, the Sigma Gamma Rho, the other sorority sisters,
 and our fraternity brothers, we need to reach out. Instead of complaining, we need to reach out to this large number of our youth. And then we look at the police station. Police can't solve a crime by themselves. So if you look at the number of youth that have been expelled from school, compared with the number of youth that's causing crime in the community, then we'll see there's a correlation. We need to address that youth that's being kicked out of school
 and find a solution to deal with the situation. I can't do that by myself, and I'm going to continue this again. I need your help. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Brandy Gardner. I decided to talk a little bit about narcissistic, the narcissistic personality disorder, so people won't think just because you date me, you end up, I ended up with a proclamation.
 I did date a guy with a narcissistic personality disorder. And he, just to give you an example, because it's more than what the definition actually is. It's more than just thinking more about yourself. I've actually helped him start his own business, for example. And he called me up as soon as he got his ownership certificate. And he said, I just want to know, how have you helped me?
 And I got off the phone with him. That was one example. There was another young, and I'm just going to say he's a white young male. He came into my store. He was telling me about him being verbally abused by one of the guys he was tagging along with, an older guy he was tagging along with. And he told me.
 some of the things the guy was saying to him and he kept and he showed me the Ferris wheel, the hamster wheel, I call it a hamster wheel that he was on. And I was on it at one point. And he was like, I want to know if he wants to be around me. If he liked me, how come he called me these names? How come? And he was on his hamster wheel. He was just going around and around and around. Anyways, I gave him some resources. And then his father came into my store and I gave him the grand tour around the store. And he said, sister Brandy, he said, I'm, I'm,
 I won't say his name because everything is under investigation. And so he actually passed away. The young boy actually died. And he said, I'm his father. And he said, I went in his pockets. I said, have a seat. And he said, I went in his.
 belongings and I saw the resources that you gave him and I noticed that you must have tried to help him and we talked and stuff and I told him how the narcissistic personality disorder seemed to have affected his child and he told me how his child his child contacted me how he felt the same way so it is very very very vital I just wanted you guys to have a taste of it from another perspective thank you for allowing me to speak thank you
 Moving on to new committees. There's no planning and development items, so we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, your honor. Just one item this evening is the approval of the right away dedication plat for Strathmore Drive. I move to suspend rule 15, your honor. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on just a vote to suspend rule 15? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed?
 All right. Item has been suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I placed that up for passage. Okay. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on this one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirely. Aye.
 10 ice thank you item passes next we'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman frost thank you first your honor the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of 9 million 60 000 222 dollars and 28 cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee held last monday on november 12 2019 number two the committee recommends approval of an application for federal grant funds for an annual continuation of head start and early head start services
 for the period from april 1 2020 through march 31 2021 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number three is uh the committee recommending approval of the self-assessment report and the self-assessment work plan for the city of rockford head start early head start the legal director shall also prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you so we have uh three items before you is there any discussion on those three items
 Seeing no discussion on those three items, I ask for the clerk to call a vote. Durkee. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. 10 ayes. Thank you, so those items pass. Next up we have officers reports.
 I would just call your attention before I turn it over to the alderman for reports. There's three new board appointments before you, one for the Rockford Housing Authority for Ms. Novella-Ville, one for the library board for Janet Larson-Moore, and one for Traffic Commission Dorian Peterson. And I'll turn it over to the alderman for officers' reports. Thank you.
 alderman beach uh thank your honor i'd like to uh if you don't mind just talk about a couple of personal things in my family um the first is we're so grateful that our granddaughter decided to move back to rockford she left to rockford down into lakeland florida went to college there graduated we tried to get her back up here to start teaching but she taught down there for a year and then we noticed that she got pregnant
 And then she was talking about moving back to Rockford. And so they did. Matter of fact, they moved back not long ago. And this past Wednesday, as this shirt would say, Sonia and I became proud great-grandparents. Wow, that's awesome. We gave birth to a nice little girl, nice little boy. And his name is Chandler Todd Davis. And so...
 I just wanted to say welcome, honey, to Rockford, to our family, and may God bless you all through your life. Thanks for letting me be a little proud of the kid. Thank you. That's awesome. If you're ever thinking about farming out your services, Olympia and Malachi, I could use some help on the weekends. Any other reports? Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Two items. One is I know Stroll-on-State is in need of some volunteers this weekend, so you can go to the website. Just type in Stroll-on-State in Google. It'll take you to the website. There's a volunteer tab there, and you can sign up. It looks like they're in need both.
 Tuesday night, which is tomorrow Friday Saturday Of this week as well the 22nd and 23rd second item is just for residents in the ninth Ward I'm gonna be doing some work around our improvements in the ward so if you have any sidewalk improvements or Road concerns, please send them to me and I'll be meeting with Public Works here in the next few weeks So thank you other officers reports. Ain't nothing. All right, we're gonna move on to
 Two motions and resolutions, and we have nothing under planning and development or code and regulation, so we'll move to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an award of bid for fire station number six for the HVAC replacement to the temperature doctors, heating and cooling of Rockford in the amount of $34,054.24. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Number two is an award for bid for property cleanups to Slabow and Sons of Caledonia, air, snow, and junk removal of Rockford and CMM and Associates of Rockford.
 For an estimated annual contract amount of $185,000, the contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions. The funding source is construction services operating budget. Number three is an award of bid for the fire department station wear to Uniform Den of Luz Park and to see any specialties of Rockford.
 for an estimated annual cost of 125 000 the contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extensions the funding sources the fire department operating budget number four is an award of rfp for the emergency solutions grant to remedy shelter fifty thousand dollars for emergency shelter to institute of community alliances 30 000 for homeless management information systems
 To Second First Church, $22,168 for emergency weather operations and services. To Shelter Care Ministries, $36,300 for emergency shelter. The contract duration is two years. The funding source is the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. Number five, an award of RFP audit services to Lauterbach and Amen of Naperville, Illinois, for the contract's amounts as listed for 2020 through 2021.
 24 ranging from 79,500 to 89,500 on an annual basis. The funding source is the finance department operating budget. Number six is an award of contract extension for tire collection and recycling service to Green Road Tire Recycling of Rockford.
 For the contract amount of $40,000, the contract duration is January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 with four one-year extensions available. The funding source is community development operating budget. Number seven is preparation and submittal of US EPA grant application for two city-owned sites, the Rockford Watch Factory and the former Lloyd's Hearing Building. The total request is $275,000, requiring a local match of $55,000.
 Please lens before you Thank You alderman cross we have seven items before you is there any discussion on those seven items alderman McNeely Several of the items we have before us therefore more than one year and wanting to know if Amounts that are presented for this current period will be the same amount for the future periods so item number three and four and six
 Director Haggerty generally if there is Generally, we will allow for some CPI related price increases under contract with contract extensions But some I'd have to look at each one individually to see what the contract terms were for extension I know if not
 Not for, oftentimes they'll have to request a specific pricing increase and provide documentation justifying it at the time of extension in order for us to consider that. Otherwise the price would be locked for the full term. With the audit contract for example, they listed a specific price for each year. The other ones, those are unit prices based on approximate volumes. And we wouldn't really consider a price increase unless they asked for it.
 thank you any other discussion alderman thunberg thank you mayor i'd just like to show my express my appreciation to the individuals involved for the uh the preparation and submittal of the grant for uh the specifically the watch factory there's a great building downtown i think once we get that on the rolls uh it'll really uh
 boost things in that area and Once we get it some things were mediated. We can get that out and and hopefully get that back on the tax rolls and So thank you to all those involved and I had a conversation with Wayne dust after yesterday last week's meeting Clarifying a few things and thank you and let's move forward. Thanks. Is there any other discussion saying none clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? I?
 Toomer Herbie urban's Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely names 1 2 11 eyes and 3 4 10 eyes 1 no item 5 11 eyes and 6 10 eyes 1 no item 7 11 eyes. Thank you We'll move on to new business and we only have items under finance and personnel back to you alderman frost. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the application for the federal grant funds for the annual continuation of Head Start and Early Head Start services for the period from April 1st, 2020 through March 31, 2021. Number two is an ordinance approving the self-assessment report and self-assessment work plan for the city of Rockford Head Start, Early Head Start. Thank you. So there's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Cross. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 11 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Now for our favorite time, Alderman Chiarelli. Okay. Okay. Make a motion to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters.
 we have a motion and second any discussion seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll Durkin hi Toomer cross Herbie urban's Thompson I'm sorry Hoffman Rose Beach you know nice back McNeely Shirely I love a nice all right we'll convene into closed session