Herbie, Irvins, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli. 13 present.
 Excellent. We just have a few items on our special agenda this evening. First is finance and personnel, and we do not have Alderman Frost. Would you like to step in on that for us? Thank you. We are on Roman numeral 2, items C, 1 and 2.
 under finance and personnel number one is an award of bid for the water division building roof replacement to hc anderson roofing company of rockton illinois in the amount of 157 694 dollars
 The funding source is the water operating budget. Number two is an award of bid for the Coleman Village Shoring and Stabilization Project to Schmeling Construction Company of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $165,245. The funding source is the US EPA for $137,153 and our CIP general fund in the amount of $28,091.65.
 Thank you. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 thank you those two items pass uh those are the only items uh just one thing under officers reports that i i want to provide to you
 It's with a heavy heart I let you know you may have read one of these or maybe even both already, but we lost two former longtime employees at the city just over the last week. We lost Deputy Chief Jeff Morris, who retired in 2004, and then we also lost longtime Director of Community and Economic Development in Diane Venita.
 I do know off the top of my head I believe there's gonna be a celebration of life for Diane on December 1st at the University Club I don't do not know if they've selected the time or not but I can make sure all aldermen are aware of that she had no other family locally so family has been coming in from out of town
 But I feel bad to provide that to you, but I think it's important because both had a tremendous impact on our city So with that is there any other officers reports Alderman Thompson Kelly? Thank you your honor for sharing that They're two great individuals. So it was a very important part of this community I want to remind the alderman and the department heads that has signed up, you know I've got my list and I'm checking it twice for the senior luncheon tomorrow at 11 o'clock and
 The drop-dead date is time is 1130 and it will be at the Salvation Army at 500 Rockford Avenue. And I'll see you all with your beautiful smiling faces tomorrow to serve our seniors that has worked so hard in this community. Thank you. One piece of advice if you ever want Alderman Thompson Kelly's vote on any important issue in your award.
 be there tomorrow at 11 a.m alderman beach yes sir you're on a couple things do you have any more information on jeff porras
 I do not, but I can make sure that Legal Director Nicholas Myers will get it for you. And the other thing is I did put this flyer on everyone's desk for this coming Sunday afternoon. If you enjoy brass band music for annual concerts this year, please come if you can. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Sir Alderman McNeil. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just would like to...
 I'll make the comment I've received at least two phone calls and Alderman Thompson-Kelly gave me a referral this evening when I came in.
 regarding the Winnemagel County Ballinger the trustee the cell that I don't know if it was all of this year or just the last cell of this year but there has been an issue that people that called me actually I received three calls one call from a gentleman
 that they were tearing down his property, and he called me and said, I just bought that property at the county sale, and now they're demolishing my property. The last two calls, one this evening before I came here to council, a granddaughter trying to help her grandmother who purchased a home,
 um luckily she she didn't make the full payment at the time that the sale was going on but she did put down what was required as a down payment at that time she went to pay the remainder of it and get her title and and was told that she had to pay some ridiculous amount for for a lien that was by the city that ballinger
 had stated verbally and or on paper that they would give them a clean title they would take care of the liens so we have a real problem if I've got four phone calls I don't know if any other alderman got any calls but I got four and I don't think that the county
 Should leave these people stranded they should be able to address these individuals in whatever way that That seems reasonable. I won't say but the county certainly knows They help Ballinger out as their trustee. They need to address it And not send the people to the alderman to the city. I mean I
 They should take care of their business and I and I certainly don't appreciate them addressing my constituents as they have. So I hope that if there's anything that we as a city can do to get the county moving, I hope that we'll do it, Mr. Mayor.
 Yes, certainly. I'll follow. I'll do an update for you and then I'll first go to Alderman. To Alderman McNeely and anyone else out there who has bought these properties and you find out that a $15,000 property has an $80,000 lien or demolition lien, you can obtain what's called a sale in error, S-A-L-E in error, and they give you your money back. So if they're not going to clean up the mess...
 go back to, I'm not sure which office it is, but sale and error, especially for a demolition, and get your money back. The large consortiums do it all the time when they buy these properties sight unseen, and they decide that they don't like it or they can't make money off of it, they just go and get their money back, and the properties just stay in limbo. So individual buyers, especially our Rockford taxpayers, should do the same thing.
 So let me first provide a bit of an update. So we have been working on the trustee process.
 I've been mayor 18 months, so for probably about 16 and a half months now, maybe 15 months. We are, I would say, closer than we've ever been. Our big concern at the city that we've shown is a couple of things. One is the blight that these trustee lots have shown to be in our community. Two is the cost of maintaining those blighted properties, which to us on any average year is between $200,000 and $400,000.
 My issue with that, and I believe it's council's issue with that, is when we pay for the maintenance of those lots, we are really helping marketing those lots as should be done. We want those lots maintained, and we are also improving the quality of life in our neighborhoods and property values.
 The issue I have with that is when that property then is sold they then disseminate the funds of the sale to the trustee and then to every taxing body based on their Percentage of the tax bill. So we're 22 percent but of the tax bill, but we take a hundred percent of the maintenance So what we've been arguing is that there needs to be a new structural change to the trustee process and
 And we've argued that that structural change needs to incorporate the maintenance of lots, not just in Rockford, but in Loves Park and the Chesney Park. But we happen to have 89.9% of all trustee-owned lots in the county are right here in Rockford.
 So I will say we've had a lot of progress. I would say over the last three to four months I think it's fair to say less three to five months in this process and we are working closely with chairman Haney Region one planning council in the Development of their land bank and their staff that's what's been working on the land bank dr. Martel from Winnebago County Health Department and I
 our own Todd Cagnoni has been on a committee that's been reviewing this and getting closer and closer to have a finalized process. I'll say, and I can take some of the blame on some of the most recent sales, the only leverage we've had to
 move this process forward as quickly as we have in the last several months is to Stop forgiving all of these liens and I'll just be upfront. It's not the best way to do things It's not something we like to do I like to do but it is the thing that has been the impetus of seeing that Closest we've ever been to seeing the drastic change in this program
 So there are a handful of individuals who find themselves in difficult positions, which we have also, if you want to forward those individuals to us, we can work on them one-on-one. But I don't want to carte blanche forgive every single lien that's out there because we lose our only true leverage standpoint.
 And with that before I go to you, I just ask if City administrator Cahag Noney has anything to add that I may have missed or Did not state accurately. Thank you, Your Honor. I just would provide a couple points of clarification Winnebago County is the trustee and they hire an agent. Mr. Ballinger to facilitate The trustee program so a lot of these issues are directly related to the county And just a point of clarification alderman Herbie. I
 You know, there are two issues. One is the sale of properties under the control of the trustee and the other is for individuals that may purchase delinquent taxes. That's the process where they can file sale and errors but many people that are bidding on properties.
 that the county is selling through the trustee program, it's buyer beware. Their funds are many times non-refundable when they go to those auctions and they have a disclaimer in regards to individuals doing their own research related to outstanding liens that might be on the property. So I think you wanna recognize that there's two processes there. And tell people that the liens will be extinguished by the city and that's just fraud.
 So no, they cannot make a material misrepresentation regarding that property and then turn around and say, oh, by the way, you're stuck. So whether they call it a sale in error or a sale in fraud or a sale under a lie, tell them to go get their money back. I will help them free of charge if they don't do it. So the trustee, the county, would have that ability to run the program, but I just wanted to make sure that there's a difference in understanding with those two processes.
 Thank you, Alderman McNeely, for bringing that up. Any other officers report to Alderman McNeely? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I certainly agree with you. I think that...
 for the city of Rockford, for the county to be able to ask the city to forgive the liens, given that we've already paid for whatever work that was done. It's not just a fee that we came up with for just...
 Holding the property or allowing the weeds to grow or the garbage to be on it. We actually have paid individuals or companies to come in there and do that and For the county to think that we should eat that we as the taxpayers of the city of Rockford should eat that at the expense of their agent making a
 money off from it before we can get paid to for the expenses that we've paid is Wrong, and I always thought that and I'm glad that that you are addressing that but at the same time
 the county has to be responsible for any misunderstanding any misgiving any funds or whatever they need to address that for not just the city of Rockford not just my constituents but anyone that that purchased and are now having difficulties so I hope that
 I will turn in the names to your office, but I hope that the county itself would take the responsibility. Be responsible. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed?