that we call home in Rockford, Illinois. I pray tonight that you will bless us as we govern the affairs of our city. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right. Thank you very much. We'll ask our clerk to please call the roll. Thank you very much for doing it for the roll. Is there a motion to accept the journal? Is there a motion to second to accept the journal? Are there any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Thank you. We have a...
 special guest that is here to announce the results of a bond sale that occurred earlier today. I'll turn the meeting over briefly to our Acquaintance Director, Mr. Black, and ask him to make those introductions. Thank you, Mayor. I apologize.
 It works. We have Dan Forbes here from Spear Financial. He just wants to briefly give the results of the bond sale today that we issued bonds, as you know, for the funding of the concourse parking garage repairs. Great to speak. Thank you.
 Everyone hear me? I have good news. I'll be very brief, but I have very good news for the city. Bond sale went extremely well today. We had three good bids. The bids far surpassed where our modeling was, and the market, of course, has been a little itchy with the perhaps federal increase, the Fed Reserve increasing rates perhaps in December and all.
 Given all of that, we got three excellent bids. I hope you have a copy of the SPHERE financial recommendation letter. The two low bids were separated by one-thousandth of a point. That's always a good sign that you've got a good competitive bid sale.
 The low bid was, and the bid we recommend is at a 3.62, which was revised. We were actually able also to take 20,000 off the size of the bond issue because it was so well bid. So the bonds were revised down to 6,315,000, and the TIC we recommend is a 3.6116.
 The other pages, you can see who else bid. It's background information. There are just a couple things I want to bring out. One in particular is the get-service schedule. We had worked with Chris and Alt and been modeling this around a 475, and that's sort of what we have been using going forward. It came in at a 446,000 per year.
 debt service, which is way below the model, I think will save the city a considerable amount in financing. There is attached to Moody's report. I always recommend that you read that. Chris as usual did a fantastic job with Moody's. He had wonderful things to say about the city and that's always good to hear. And they very much appreciate Chris being very straightforward and integrity in the process. So kudos to Chris.
 and kudos to yourselves i appreciate uh some of the things in moody's they have very complementary things about the city one of which saw the financial operations uh willingness of the city to adjust if necessary so i recommend the report to you i said i'd be short so i'm here to answer any questions i appreciate doing good news any questions if you'd be so inclined now for a vote
 that is the bond ordinance laid over after the last meeting so there's no requirement to suspend rules I know that that's out of order but if we could pass that certainly if there's no objection we'll move to the agenda room 8A2 this is unfinished business ordinance laid over at 8A2 and take that matter that has to do with this was laid over previously and would be a poor passage and appropriate to discuss right now questions on the item
 Just one last point of clarification, Your Honor. As Mr. Forbes mentioned, because of the favorable outcome of the sale, the amount that's being authorized is $6,315,000 rather than $6,005,000. Thank you. Do we need a motion to amend? No, Your Honor. So the upper passage is the Procedure 8A2 with the correction that the amount...
 is $6,315,000 as opposed to $6,335,000. So any questions? I'll let him speak. What is the difference between the top rating and what we have? How much would we need in the future?
 So the question has to do with our bond rating and currently at A1. What is previously? What's that gap? So I think you have two part questions. What it costs us and what would it take to get higher? Mr. Black or Mr. Forbes, any of you want to take that? I think I'll let Mr. Forbes take the part on the difference between the rates and I can talk a little bit about why we are rated where we are at this point in time.
 Ideally, it would be nice to get into that AA category. And as to the steps that the city would need to take, those are pretty much set forth in the Moody's report. There's a section that is entitled specifically, what could make the rating go up. And there are three items listed there on the first page.
 Basically, what Moody's is looking for is, you know, socioeconomic-type additional improvements in the city, pet space, those sorts of things. The finances at the city actually got very strong. If the reserves actually become stronger, that also can increase. As to what a AA, which the city had been at for a number of years, had moved to an A1
 I will say generally that credits in Illinois have, for the most part, downgrades have way outweighed upgrades during the financial crisis. So A1 is one of the top ratings as it is. If you were to get up to that A3 category, it would certainly help. I would say maybe 5 to 10 basis points. So instead of a 360, 1, maybe you could get maybe a 350, something like that.
 If I could just add editorially, I think I know the answer to this question. We talk about other cities getting downgraded, one of the most severe is in the city of Chicago. Chilat, like Chuck, was about five levels, I think, below where we were. Correct. They're not even the best in grade. Yes, I'm a city tax care. Mr. Black, any additional commentary on Beach? Does that help? I do. Thank you. Any other questions? Hearing none, please call the roll.
 That passes, thank you. So we will go back to the agenda which puts us at public participation. I want to remind our speakers and our guests that each one of our speakers tonight on a public participation has three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. If they start to go over the allotted time, I'll ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Toby Haldeman.
 If we could, Suzanne? Yes. If we could wait for just a minute, I'm expecting my court recorder to show up. Not to take away from any of the other aldermen, but wow, Alderman Hervey, way to go. I'll paraphrase here, I will not be intimidated by your bullying tactics. I love the passion. We need more of it at council.
 Have you ever heard of don't poke the bear? Why do you continue to poke the bear? Keep it up and all you're going to get back is a stump.
 Now it's reported that our garbage rates could possibly go up so the city can continue to take down ash trees. While I agree that the trees should be removed, I don't agree that the citizens of Rockford should have to pay for it on our garbage bills. The citizens of Rockford are being taxed to death. Fees added to this, fees added to that, fined on this, assessed for that. When will it end?
 How about increasing the tipping fee for out of town garbage trucks? I'm sure this would more than cover any cost associated with the tree removal. Vote no on an increase on our garbage bill until all other avenues are looked at. With elections coming up next year, people think that voting for the next president is the most important thing to do. I disagree.
 Voting at a local level is by far more important. State Senate, Alderman, County Board, Sheriff, all of these are more important than the presidency at a local level, as these are the people that will make changes that will directly affect our lives. Taxes, fees, fines, all local. Vote local. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Herminia
 Hello, I'm here. I hope you understand me. I'm here for my neighborhood and my school, King's School. And I'm having a problem with the alcoholics, the homeless, and the liquor store. And my school, King's School, if you would leave where I live, I would be able to get
 I think you would like your children to look what I'm looking now and keep school with the liquor store and all the men running in the alley, my alley. I have to do all the cleaning around my house and everything. I'm old and I'm a citizen. I vote, I pay taxes, and I'm worried. I get scared. I get scared for my kids.
 My grandson had to walk to his boss, to catch the boss in the morning. Why did something happen to him? Because they're all walking real early in the morning looking for stuff. And I'm worried, and I hope you understand me, and I need more patrol in my neighborhood. What is the use of fixing the South Main Street? It looks very nice, but about a half a block is a dirty alley.
 And I thank my aldermen and I thank the policemen because they are very good. They come when we need them and they accept my calls, but I need more patrols in my area. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate you voicing your concerns. Our next speaker is Robert Esmond. Good evening. We're here on behalf of the West Gateway Coalition.
 The West Gateway Coalition is a group of West Side citizens who are dedicated to improving the safety, removing blight, create economic development, and improve educational opportunities within the neighborhoods that are defined as Kilburn to Pierpont and Auburn to Preston Streets. This year, the West Gateway Coalition has created a church school, the Zion West, and the Lewis Lemon neighborhood associations as part of our goal to create a total of nine neighborhood associations in the next two years.
 Tonight we are pleased to announce the formation of the Westgateway Coalition Scholarship Fund. This fund has been established as an endowment with the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois. Fundraising has started and will be an ongoing process for the next 15 to 20 years. We will start awarding scholarships beginning the 2020 school year. The annual proceeds from the fund will be divided among the eligible students. This is a place-based scholarship.
 With the following eligibility requirements, the students need to live within the boundaries of the West Gateway Coalition, volunteer with the West Gateway Coalition or the Member Neighborhood Association and graduate from high school. The scholarships can be used for college, trade or vocational school tuition.
 We believe this endowment will create long-term economic and positive environmental impact within our neighborhoods. Dr. Michelle Miller-Adams, in her paper reviewing the economic development impact of place-based scholarship programs, specifically the one in Kalamazoo, Michigan, notes, the availability of scholarships create an incentive for workers and businesses who value education to move to or remain within the community.
 At the same time, it increases pressure on the public school district to educate and graduate students who are prepared to pursue some kind of post-secondary education. The Kalamazoo public schools have seen a 24% increase in enrollment during the last 10 years, while other similar districts have seen a decrease. We believe that creating a draw for families to move into our neighborhoods is an inexpensive and environmentally responsible way to redevelop our older neighborhoods.
 The infrastructure of roads, sidewalks, water, sewer, utilities, school, police stations, fire stations are already in place. We are actively seeking donations from the community, businesses, and other organizations as part of our efforts to build this endowment. The Community Foundation of Northern Illinois has generously agreed to match dollar for dollar up to $10,000 on our initial fundraising efforts. We have partnered with the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois due to their expertise in managing endowments and the scholarship awarding process.
 You can give the fund by writing a check to the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois and writing West Gateway in the memo section of the job. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Our next speaker is Susan Rader. Thank you, Your Honor. I have to take my glasses off. I know that all the aldermen and all the women were handed some information.
 What I'm talking about tonight is youth homelessness. This is Youth Homeless Awareness Month. It's also Hunger and Homeless Awareness Week. I work at YSN and have worked at YSN for 24 years. I'm the administrative director. I'm also co-chair of the Rock River Coalition. We have two shelters in our community, 4th Street Bridge and Rockford Meld.
 In 2008, we had about $1.2 million coming into the community for homeless youth. Right now, we're at $791,000. And as you know, there's nothing coming in right now from Department of Human Services.
 We've had to reduce our services for homeless youth and for crisis intervention. Crisis intervention is a program that works with, in conjunction with homeless, works with kids who have run away from home, who've been locked out of their homes, are victims of domestic violence. Many times they come into our shelter. We served over 300 youth between the ages of 14 and 21 last year.
 We have a wonderful partnership with the City of Rockford. The single point of entry have always had a wonderful relationship with the Rockford Fire Department, who all their sites are safe place sites. The Rockford Police Department, the school district,
 But there's still kids out there, and there's more than ever, sleeping in parks, sleeping in alleys, sleeping in their friends' garages. They're all in your wards. And so I just want to make you aware of that, that please, if you have any influence,
 push or talk to the legislators and encourage them to get this finished so that we can continue to provide services to this population which is, I know this is a cliche where I say this is
 you know, the most vulnerable population or this is our future. But these are our kids. These are our neighbors. These are our – this is part of our community. And our community is made up of a lot of different types of people. And these kids are part of it and deserve to have the best. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have a couple of final speakers coming over this evening. Professor Houston. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening.
 In the book of Proverbs, the 16th chapter, the 20th verse, it says, Whoever gives heed to instruction prosper, and blesses he who trusts in the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, Governor Rauner has intentionally hurt poor people. Governor Bruce Rauner took the oath of office on January 12, 2015. The essence of the oath he took requires him to uphold the Constitution of the state of Illinois. At the time of his inauguration, he said, I am humble, I am honored, I am privileged.
 That's nice. The question now is whether the governor spent enough time reading the Eleanor's Constitution. Did he spend any time reading just the preamble of the Constitution? Here's a quote from the preamble of our Constitution in order to provide for health, safety, and welfare of the people.
 Maintain or represent an orderly government. Eliminate poverty and inequality. Assure legal, social, and economic justice. Provide opportunities for the fullest development of the individual. Ensure domestic tranquility. Provide for the common defense. And secure the blessing of freedom and liberty to ourselves and our parts. Do ordain and establish this Constitution for the State of Illinois. In an article written by Brian Mackey of the Illinois Public Radio,
 We find out that on September 18, 2012, candidate Bruce Rauner presented a lecture at a conference of the George W. Bush Institute on a plan that he had to use social service as a political wedge to discredit public unions and the Democratic Party. There's an audio of a portion of the lecture with Rauner presenting his devious plan. So what we are seeing in our community that they funded or underfunded by social service is the implementation of the government's
 premeditated plan to create crisis in communities and blame public unions and the Democrat Party. He has as many rights conscripted the stable, the elderly, the disadvantaged, the mentally ill and addicted, and to his plan to aid his reform agenda, for business. So we have a
 who came to the office never intended to really uphold the state's constitution. He already had in mind how he would exploit the health and welfare of one group of people who are poor in order to bring greater profit to his rich buddies. The governor's plan is hurting poor people. Where does the governor get the right to hurt people? This is not accidental hurt. This is intentional hurt. Does this fit cruel and unusual punishment of the people?
 the government will never take responsibility for the harm his policy has already done. It's time for the people in Illinois to stand up and speak up against this stupidity and say we are not going to take this garbage anymore. Thank you for allowing me. Thank you to all of our speakers this evening. Commissions and communications. Alderman Shireland. Can you lift your microphone up? Guarding health bus to be held on January 26, 2016.
 5 p.m.
 2323, 2388, 2630 Mason Avenue, Surrounding and Station. The fourth is 6030, 6060, 50XX, 61XX, 6021, 6051, 6137, and 5150. The fifth is 2602 South Alpine Road, 2814 20th Street. The third is World of Delivery Tobacco Advisory Board, 2100.
 on December 2. The report is a referral from the zoning board of the field agenda. Thank you. For the petitions and communications, I'll let them go. Chris Black, finance director regarding the 2016 fee schedule. A random from Patrick Hayes, legal director regarding the road referendum for March 2015-2016 for the extension of non-homeless sales tax for infrastructure. I have a referral from
 Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding the extension of Intergovernmental Agreement for the operation of Honey's emergency telephone system. We refer on random from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding Returning Citizens Intergovernmental Agreement for services 2015-2018, City of Rockford, County of Winnebago, United Way of Rockford, River Valley, and Rockford Reef Drop Jail Ministry. These four items will be explained in the first part. Thank you, Mr. Director. That will be referred to Planning and Development.
 Mr. Uzait, a couple other items that showed up in your list for referrals? Certainly. A referral memorandum regarding the license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of residents at 908 8th Avenue as a community resource center. The referral regarding the license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of the residents at 312 Irving Avenue as a community resource center.
 And a referral memo item regarding Valencia Developers LLC proposed de-inflicted foreclosure to the City of Rockford. All those items will be referred to. Thank you. Those items will also be referred to the following call. Any further petitions or communications? Proclamations?
 I have one proclamation this evening, one special presentation that we'll be doing. The proclamation is regarding Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. I invite Shelton Kaye from the Crusader Community Health, who is the co-chair of the Mayor's Task Force on Homelessness, our coalition on homelessness, to please come forward and accept the proclamation.
 Whereas hundreds of individuals in Winnebago County, many of them children and families, experience homelessness each year. Whereas more than 30,000 people in our community are living in poverty, many of them having to use services of a local food pantry or soup kitchen. Whereas the National Coalition for Homeless and National Student Campaign Against Hunger and Homelessness are sponsoring National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week.
 The purpose of this campaign is to educate the public about the many reasons people go hungry and homeless, including the shortage of affordable housing for very low income residents and to encourage support for homeless assistance service providers as well as community resource opportunities for students and school service organizations.
 Whereas there are many organizations committed to sheltering and providing supportive services, as well as meals and food supplies for homeless through the efforts of the Rockford Winnebago County's continuing care. Whereas the City of Rockford recognizes that hunger and homelessness continues to be a serious problem for many individuals and families in our community.
 Now therefore I Lawrence J. Morse as mayor of the city of Rockford do hereby proclaim the week of November 14th through the 22nd to be hunger and homelessness awareness week. We encourage our citizens to recognize that many people do not have housing and are in need of the support of our community. I just want to start by thanking you Shelton for your leadership on the continuum and thank all of our community partners that help us and invite you to share a few more comments.
 Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to say thank you for your continuing support.
 We really appreciate this, helping us promote Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. This is very important to us. It's starting to get colder outside, and as you've heard from our previous speakers, we've seen a reduction or a complete loss of funding that has been very supportive to some of the agencies here in town. That's why it's been more important than ever for us to work together as a collaborative entity than as a coalition that really supports one another.
 We also appreciate the support you give us. One of the things we've signed on to is the Zero 2016 effort, and we can say we've made great strides in eliminating veterans' homelessness for 2015, and we've also made some progress on eliminating chronic homelessness by the end of 2016. So thank you for your ongoing support, because it really is making a difference in our community.
 Just on that final point, I just thank George Davis and our city human services department, which works as our...
 Community Action Agency for Boonawag, Winnebago County and their leadership and support for our efforts to end veterans' homelessness by the end of the year, chronic homelessness, as well as the 2016 pledge. And if you'd like to learn more about that, George and his staff have a great deal of information. Shelton Kaye also and his team of partners at the continuum of care. And we also go over this every month at our ROC staff meetings when we review our overall efforts to get to a net of zero
 on our chronic homelessness tally. Next, I'd like to invite our friends that are here from Sweden, one of our sister cities, and an industrial partnership agreement that we've had for coming up next year on 10 years with the city of Lidschipping, and our partners that we work with them. I'd invite Linnea Bengtsson, who will help us to introduce the delegation members, and we appreciate their being here today, and we'll have a few words to say after they join us.
 Your Honor, Council members and employees and citizens of Rockford, thank you so much for having half of Sweden here tonight. I have a great delegation with leaders from Lidsköping and the County of Skaraborg, and I have the great pleasure to serve as the international business developer in this partnership. Yeah, thank you. It's really, really nice to be here. And also, I'm very happy to be here. Thank you. Thank you.
 for us in Sweden and especially for me because I'm very interested in the topics. We just have heard about the problem in Råkvård. We come from Sweden and we have a very much different society. But I know that we also want to change and to develop our context for a better society and for a better world.
 Larry Morrissey met her almost 10 years ago. And we are here now after 10 years trying to, for me as a mayor in Lidschoping, expand our cooperation, and for that reason I have the delegation not only from Lidschoping, also from this city of Krøvde and from the county organization. But I think you can present yourself. Hello. Nice to be here.
 My name is Katarina Johansson and I am the mayor of the city of Skövde and I am also mayor of the county of Skaraborg. And my name is Marie Ekman and I am the second vice deputy of the city of Skövde. And my name is Bertil Johansson and I am the second vice, second deputy mayor of the city of Hitcheby.
 And I am Per-Olof Hermansson, and I am the CEO at the Association of the Local Authorities in Skaraborg County. My name is Victor Solmedén. I work as a market developer for the city of Skaraborg. My name is Kajsa Silius. I'm the deputy mayor of the city of Linköping. Very nice to be an architect for you.
 And my name is Johan Fransson, and I'm a Chief Executive Director in Lidsköping. And it's nice to be here again. Thank you. Yeah, and maybe I forgot. Kjell Hedvall, the Mayor of Lidsköping. We will stay here the whole week, and we have a very nice program to learn more about Rockford and the Midwest. We will also go to Wisconsin and Madison, but most of the time it's here.
 One of the reasons is that we will take a decision how we will do in the future. If I can decide by myself, I really want to continue our cooperation and development. To build a society, it's nothing you do in one week or two months. It's really long to reach the goal. We have so much in common, Sweden as a city
 and you guys here in Oaxaca. So thank you for being here, and thank you for all the knowledge we've learned, and maybe good things we have in the future to get over. We will have some small gifts with us from the cities, and Bode can start. Thank you, Omchel. It's very nice to meet you all, and we have met your mayor earlier today.
 And from Skövde and the local count of Skaraborg, we will give you some gifts, the finest art from local. And the rose is from our blacksmith. You have met her earlier today, and you can smell it. Can you smell? It's directly from her blacksmith shop.
 and this too. So thank you very much for your warm welcome. We are so grateful. And now it's time for a gift from the city of Lidköping. You can hold up there and see what we find. It stands at the marketplace in the middle of Lidköping. I hope everybody sometime can come and visit us in Lidköping. Thank you.
 Mr. Ryan, Mr. Black are going to help us out a little bit. If I can just say a few words. For many of our council members who are new to the council, back in 2006 when we developed this partnership, we had great support from the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau and the Rockford Area Economic Development Council. We've continued that partnership since. We've led, you may recall from time to time, delegations that have included
 We've had firefighters, we've had nurses, we've had teachers. We've done a number of different exchanges with students over the years. We had a good conversation today about how we might extend this partnership. And one thing we had a surprisingly quite a bit of interesting discussion around was the sense that both countries, our central governments, aren't leading the way.
 that local governments, whether they're in the United States or they're in Sweden, have to, in regions really, local regions, have to provide leadership for the citizens that we represent. Not saying that central governments aren't important, but the leadership and the innovation is happening, it seems, at the local level. So while we certainly have differences in approaches and strategies, we have to provide
 governments. There is a lot that we share in common and one thing that we will continue to do, I'm very fortunate to have Linnea who's been within our city community development department now for many years supporting this partnership. Her to help us continue our discussion after this week to further explore how the partnerships may develop and I invite council and other community members to help share those ideas. A lot of good discussion today and we're looking forward to more and again just thank you so much for your commitment to this partnership and we look forward to
 more great days ahead. Thank you.
 Opposed, no. Ayes 7, thank you. Thank you. The first is the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to the River District North Tax Increment Financing District, designating the first amendment amended River District. The second one is the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to the River District North Tax Increment Financing District. This approves and adopts the first amendment to the River. Third, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment.
 to the River District North Tax Increment Financing District, approving tax increment financing for the amended area to the river. Lastly, the committee recommends approval of the River Edge Redevelopment Zone. The boundary amendment in Boards 5 and 6 exchanges and deletes an area that overlaps with the new Rockford Enterprise Zone No. 1 in place of all these upper areas. Thank you.
 Committee reports from 5A, Ions 1, 2, 3, and 4. Good discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Matters passed. Thank you. Caller Schrelling. Move a rule of the class for local landmark at the 4th Street. Sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's recommendation to review the facility. Rule 1, including Rule 5, a lighted traffic rate. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second. There's been a rule. Is it number 5?
 B, codes and regulations, committee reports, numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. All those in favor of suspending rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, added. Opposed, no. That is our capacity. That is our capacity. Is there a discussion? I'll be. No, I'd like to cite a little more information on number three, taking commercial traffic off of St. Lucie Road. On the trail. Thank you. I just signed on, so we will place it.
 Thank you, Andy. Further to staff, area discussion? The reason I'm asking is there's one thing to the traffic. It's another thing to the commercial use and driving down that road. Because there's other commercial buses. How would that traffic be to get that way? I don't know. So I'm just making the way I understand it. There's that going back around up Wilford Road in order to get back to the incentive. Like Blake Lawney and other
 I was supporting the traffic not parking there. I'm not sure I'm understanding why there was a business camp right on the road. That road goes to what? Full metal. It's about 140 centimeters long. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion on the items. There are no other questions from the world.
 aye thank you your honor we have seven items first is the vouchers nine million two hundred sixty five thousand three hundred twenty three dollars and eighty cents next is the approval of the sale of property in 349 quaker road for one thousand dollars next is the approval of the water rate adjustment next is the approval of the 2016 sanitation fee increase
 Next is the approval of the Intergovernmental Agreement with Winnebago County for the joint use of a pavement striping vehicle for an estimated value of $5,000. Next is the approval of the fine reduction request for $500 for 2540 Knox Drive. And then the last one is the approval of the fine reduction request for 3327 Seward Avenue for $500. There's a motion to suspend the rules. Second. Second.
 I second the motion. Second, suspend the rules on the Finance and Personnel Committee reports from Rule 5C, Adams 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say goodbye by saying aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Savage, rules be suspended. Thank you. The matters are for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, could the clerk please call the roll? 7-7-1. So I believe, Mr. Hayes, if you could check the math. 7-9-4. So everything passes except number 4 failed. Yes. Thank you.
 Also, just a few items to report on this evening. Number one, there's a press release that has gone out about garbage collection schedule being delayed due to Thanksgiving Day holiday coming up on Thursday, November 26th. The balance of the week will be delayed one day.
 The household hazardous waste site, 3333 Kishwaukee, will be open as usual the weekend of Saturday, November 28th, from 8 to 4, and Sunday, November 29th, from 12 to 4. There's some other information there on the details of the household hazardous waste site, indicating that latex paint will no longer be accepted at the household hazardous waste site. Some details on that. Also, I would just like to...
 recognize Interim Chief Pat Holey who was taken over from Chief Epperson and again we had a nice send off congratulating Chief Epperson last week there was a press release that I believe went out later today just again introducing him
 letting the community know about Chief Hoey taking over as interim chief and continuing a number of the efforts that we've been engaged in, managing our efforts to reduce violent crime through partnerships in the community, as well as managing our commitment to practice constitutional policing. If there's any questions about that press release, feel free to follow up with me to myself or Chief Hoey, and Mr. Ryan was also quoted in that press release.
 And finally, I just wanted to ask for a moment of silence as we recognize the victims of a terrorist attack from Paris, France, over the weekend. And ask for a brief moment as we rise and remember those victims. Remember our need to push for peace and to support those who are fighting global terrorism. Thank you. Further officers and reports? Let me guess. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just wanted to go back on...
 During our public speaker's announcement, Mr. Joby Holland brought up a great point about upcoming elections and the importance of voting. In 2013, it was my first time running as a candidate myself, and one of the biggest challenges I had was getting people to come out and vote in my primary election. There's a lot of angst in our state and nationally about the performance of public parties, and I'd just like to remind everybody of the importance of voting in the primary as well as in the general election.
 The last day to register to vote in the primary this year is actually February 16th. Early voting for the primaries will start on February 4th, and the primary elections will actually be held on March 15th, so it's coming up. It's very important you pay attention to your local candidates.
 because as you're seeing on our agenda tonight, there's a lot of things that we do for you. For the record, none of us in the city council are up for election here. We're not up until 2017, but please start paying attention. And I'm beating this drum now because if you're watching us on TV or you're sitting in this room here, you vote. If you're actually able to make it through this meeting and you are attending on TV, you absolutely get out and vote, and I thank you for it. And...
 that primary is one more way of holding us accountable. There are a couple little rules about voting in primaries. If you sign somebody's petition, you need to vote in that party's primary. There's a couple other little things. If you have questions, please reach out to your elected officials, go out to the Board of Elections. There's a lot of people out there. And finally, I strongly encourage our local media to do some coverage of the primaries. There were several, for all of us,
 during our 2013 election, several primaries, the primary race decided who was Alderman. And the day before that primary, instead of having a nice, neat,
 article in the paper about hey there's a primary tomorrow there was coverage of the stock market festival so explain to voters that hey this is coming up hey these are where the maps are i spend a lot of time telling people it's a new map i'm not running against frank beach the wine and glue okay so please you know media help out let people know this is a very important election and uh the primary is that first step to deciding who are what we're elected to dip those on
 Thank you all.
 to the public works staff and Matt Bittner in particular about earlier this year we passed a resolution to provide savings from our arterial roads to go back and do the wards ending in the most, the wards 60 and 11. And those wards received about a $33,000 additional increase to help out with infrastructure. It's not a lot, but it's a start in the right direction. And lastly, I would like to say
 the mayor for providing uh information on connect rockford i'd love to hear more about it uh in a form of maybe a special meeting or memo or some sort because i think there's not one person around council who doesn't think it's really critical it's probably the number one issue thought that every single neighborhood and i think for the most part we all agree that it takes many facets
 of religious and non-profits, for-profits, that are coming together. And I think we'll miss an opportunity at all but up to date on what is helpful. Thank you. If I could just real quickly on that point. I gave a presentation last, very end of the meeting. It was late probably. I think the media had already left. I know a number of council members had to leave and there's information on the phone lane.
 and it was a response to all of Shirley's discussion with myself about getting some more information out about the status of various efforts. And obviously that's been a hot topic. I just want to let the council members know, as well as community members, that since my return back from China, when there had been a press conference on some of the issues around collaboration, while I was getting ready to leave for China, I had a number of meetings with the sheriff,
 and some of our other partners in the community about the topic. Many of the issues that were part of that presentation at the end of last week, and by the way, I apologize, I was going to send that presentation out to all the council members if it hasn't gotten out, I'll make sure to get that out this week. But that was essentially a list of some of the topics that have been involved with police community collaboration issues. And we will be happy to do an update to the council as a whole. We're close, hopefully, to getting
 same page with some of our counterparts over in the county and i think that's a really important first step so that we can help review and enjoy the presentation between the city and the county on the next steps but i appreciate you bringing up the topic it is an absolutely critical conversation thank you i was given this by profit use of is the one where speaker here is going to buy now a little quickly regarding about homeless and
 and the money that's being withheld from groups that desperately needed 9-1-1 community to put throughout. But the information we gave is regarding the gentleman that was killed, he was a cab driver here in the city, murdered, and his mother, Mary Ann Brown, is not able to bury him with her finances and asking the public to help donate.
 so that she may bury her son. Again, her name is Mary. Her number is 815-968-5017. 968-5017. So if there's an organization out there that can assist this family or individuals that can help this family, we certainly would do as the city wants to help them. It's sad that he was trying to do his job, take care of this family.
 I would also like to comment, Mr. Mayor, that tomorrow is the hearing for the Mercy Rockville Memorial Hospital proposal before the state board in Bowlingbrook. I know that Alderman Hervey is not here tonight, but I do know that there is a bus, and I do know that there are seats still available on that bus at 7 o'clock in the morning at the Zion Missionary Baptist Church.
 You can load the bus there. It's on Salter Avenue, which is where the church is located. I don't have the exact address. But you're more than welcome to call me or Audubon Kirby. If you would like to go on that bus in opposition to this application, I encourage you to come.
 again you can contact alderman hervey or myself you can go to the city website our number telephone numbers are there as well as email address i believe so i encourage you all to either go to bowling book yourself if you need that information if you find it i appreciate it
 Thank you for letting me speak here. I was on the conference earlier this year because the Academy of Science and the court for several years, I remember the last four years, has gone over to Les Middle School for their Patriotism celebration that started there.
 I'm grateful for their administration. My daughter Lori had a hand in it. The retired General John Bowman was there this year. A lot of things there just as well done. And to see those kids, 900 of them, staying well-disciplined, is something we should celebrate. I passed on all the best, yes, it's not a time for me to read, but there was a good context to write, and I'll see if I can give you how that thing helps the people to breathe.
 That was the problem. The fifth step was an eight-string. And there was winners, and which is the problem. Each of the winners was hit seven, eight-string. I wish I could take the time to do that, because it was well thought out, and it was really truly meaningful. So the kids, also what sort of tool, is it related to the winners?
 that have happened in the last few years to bring them. They've done a great job. We've always taken every opportunity again to celebrate our kids, to give them every encouragement we've gotten to get in the process. So take that from Simon, and here you go. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Paula Huberton. Thank you. Thank you for the sound system.
 I can now hear what other people are saying in the chat. And I think the people that are watching can also, they don't just have lips moving, they can actually hear what we're saying. So thank you. I've asked for it. The other thing is, it's fall. We've had the street sleepers go through our area. Leaves have fallen down. Gutters have to be cleaned, which I did say I would do. Thank you. But the other thing I've noticed is,
 You go past in people's yards, the leaves are cleaned up and they're gone, but their gutters are clean. That is not the city's responsibility. That is the homeowner and or renter or the residents to do. The other thing is you're great at the end. We get to see the public works. There's so many calls that just once the rain comes, which I think we're going to get in the next couple of days,
 And their suit is flooded because the sewer system is back up. That is the resident's responsibility. A lot more people in my ward, I keep telling people that's their responsibility to clean, and they're doing it. But there are so many. That's a very small thing, but it helps the public works and the city of Rockford very much. So people clean the streets.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Other officer reports? Under room number 7, item A is going to lay over. Room number 8 is going to lay over. Item A2 we already passed earlier. So item number 8, appointments laid over. Item 1 is the appointment to the Community Action Advisory Board of Ms. Kelly Coluso for a three-year term. And item 2 is not
 thank you roman number nine item one of the passage the appointment of miss kelly deluzzo to the community actually the advisory board are there any questions bring on all those in favor please say aye opposed no as never thank you and with regard number two mr williams has been drawn with interest in that position so uh there is no appointment that will come off the agenda motions and resolutions
 First is the award of bid for demolitions group eight to J.D. Mark Incorporated with a bid of $61,024. And for the demolition of 335 Bremer, 1103 Ferguson, 1018 Island, 428 Island, 335 Blackhawk, 1419 Christina. The resources of T&E, Jean Farall, Sector 2112 Christina.
 which would be sanitation funds. Next is the award of slow-sort contract for traffic signal controller equipment to Brown Traffic, $25,000. Next is the award of contract for tax exempt lease for ambulance to J.P. Morgan Chase Bank for a lease rate of 2.04% for 48 months. Next is the award of contract for tax exempt lease for Ariel Ladder to J.P. Morgan Chase for a lease rate of 2.12% for 96 months.
 The next is award of contract extension for city viewing system with Kelly Williamson Company for an annual estimated cost of $978,000. Next is stipulation to withdraw objections to the representation certification petition involving Rockford Public Library, Cages, and Aspen. Next is resolution for the award of contract to the Construction Engineering Services for rails and trails bridge conversion amount of $140,504.86. Next.
 And the last one is an award of IRP for insurance brokerage services. Bill Kiley for an annual flat fee of $26,500, worth 3% annual adjustment. Can I ask for the suspension of rules on those eight items? I'll spend a motion, second to spend the rules on the following items. It's from number 10, motions and resolutions A, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. All those in favor, spend the rules. Please signify by saying aye. Aye.
 hi those known thank you that place not for passing that was over the passages their discussion and dirty thank you our number eight is there a term to this contract mayor um that is a three-year term with two annual two uh two one-year renewals after that for your turn thank you also this week for james number eight uh were they loaded
 I'm sorry, Mr. Lepp. Thank you, Mayor. It was an RFP process, but their price equaled the lowest price that we received from all the firms that submitted proposals. So what's the lowest cost? Other questions? Mayor, my question actually goes to item 7, number 7, 8-1, the one I wrote. I just wanted to see if we could get an update prior to that from Gorman on their progress with that.
 I'm sorry, which item are you asking about? No, that's my fault. It was back on item 7A1. Roman numeral 7? Yeah, just regarding that $200,000 expenditure to find a complex. So I'll take a stab real quickly at addressing that. I don't need a stab right now. Okay, so just an immediate item that we're waiting on. I've asked for a layover. It has to do with the state's commitments.
 and status regarding the transportation center component. And I will ask for an update, either writing or person, on the overall status of the hotel. Further items on motions and congratulations that are for passage? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. No on 6-9. The rest of the order is on the roll. Call the meeting. Call. That is all passed. Call the meeting. Thank you, Your Honor.
 The application of the special event of the license for a life-saving date requests for a modification of an SP liquor license to marry and write a scroll on a date scheduled for the mix to include alcohol sales in the city hall Thank you. I'll take a motion. We saved a motion. Spend the rules. Second. Spend the rules. All those in favor say aye. Opposed no. Ayes 7. Opposed no. Spend it. This is on the 10B1. Is there discussion?
 Hearing none, first please hold the line. I have nine. Anyone? The matter passes. Thank you. Thank you. In business, I'm Eric. Thank you, Your Honor. There are four items. The first three items refer to the River District North Redevelopment Project Area. Item number one is the Planning Project, Amendment Project Area, and Item Development Project Area. The last item is in accordance with many of the boundaries of the River Edge redevelopment. First, like to suspend rule.
 The motion is there second. Okay. Motion second. Spend the rules on the new business items from our new role. 11, A, 1, 2, 3, 4, all in favor please say aye. Opposed no. Ayes have the rules. Good spending. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would like to place a passage. Yes, there are passages. There's discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. There please. Aye. Passes. Passes. Passed. Thank you. Caller Strudley. Your Honor. Your Honor.
 Number one is an ordinance that could be the local landmark designation for Cookville, Washington. Then I'll apply South Forest Street under Section 2013 of this law. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and second to amend the rules. I'm sorry, which one are you laying over? I don't know what I'd like to do. So why don't we first take that question on item one. Do you want to lay that over? And Mr. Cagnone, do you want to discuss that? Okay.
 thank you your honor our ordinance requires that prior to our local designation that there's a public hearing that is scheduled and published within the newspaper so it's being laid over this evening so that the public hearing can be scheduled thank you the man will come up after the hearing the other items for which there was a motion uh the second set of rules are b two three four five um there's been a motion is there a second second second all those in favor please
 Vice-advocate Bill Pistone, and 2, 3, 4, and 5 are passed and to be discussed. Hearing none, please call the roll. Aye. Matters passed, thank you. A little back. Four items. There's one that I'll see. First, I'm going to hold out. Second, there's an ordinance approving the water rate adjustment effective 2015. Third was repeated earlier. Fourth is an ordinance authorizing intergovernmental grants driving vehicles owned by the city and by placing items two and four
 Thank you. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman No. 11C, 2 and 4. Is there a second? Is there a motion and second to suspend the rules on those two items? All those in favor, please say aye. Ayes have the rules be suspended. I'll manage our passages there. Just 2 and 4. So 1 was held out on 349 Quaker Road, and 3 in the past, earlier, so that's not up. So it's 2 and 4 that are up for discussion.
 Again, I have a question concerning time, too. It says effective December 1st. It says rate adjustment effective December 1st. So when would the actual first agreement be? Thank you, Matt. It would be for the January billing period. Thank you. Thank you, Matt, for the discussion. I'll let Matt come in for allowing me to speak.
 i guess i would urge some of my colleagues to consider voting in favor of the water rate increase that is something that obviously none of us want to vote for um to have another yet another increase or service fee onto our constituents but if we look at uh what i think that our city staff has laid out for us now for over a course of several months uh we have 120 miles of water
 of desperate repairs. We've had increasing water range breaks for the last several years. We can admit that we could do a better job over the last 10 to 20 years to maintain our water range at a higher rate. But right now, we're averaging one mile of water range. We have, again, 120 miles. This doesn't do enough.
 but it is a small step and I cannot vote for this. It continues to get to the end down the road even further to the next council or the next year when it's for sure gonna come in front of us saying that they need this money to at least begin to combat. And again, I don't think it's enough to increase our water rate by 100%. We're probably not gonna get to that level that we need to do, a small step.
 If we do this stuff, we can get up to about four or five miles of preparing water main, which doesn't sound like a big deal, but if you live in the older parts of the city, which I do, you see these frequent water main breaks, and you can see what it does. Most effective is the time that we have our staff out there servicing these,
 all aspects of it is really pretty disruptive and I just urge you to reconsider and again no one wants to vote for this I just think it's a good discussion thank you I want to first of all say that it is totally a good plan to get this a good but I am very fortunate about continuing to increase these areas looking for budgets on this year to make farm perspective services
 and we can't fix it all by hand. And so 20 bucks, 10 bucks, five thousand dollars, I couldn't read this recently, a few weeks ago, a great half-hour of the chart for infrastructure, the project, and isn't laying Tyson his own part of infrastructure? And if this is an important thing for Robson, should it not be a part of our CIP plan that the people are already paying 1% for?
 I don't know, but I just got comfortable tonight, and I don't want to be the only one who's here, because I mean, that's just how I feel about it. I've gotten many revenues, and I have to look at some other opportunities, another way to look at things. So thank you. All my guests. Yeah, just something, because the way I look at this waterway adjustment is either you repair the water main, or the water main proactively, or the water main breaks and you repair it.
 This is one where our aging infrastructure is going to choose to do this, to be resized by great. All right? And so it's a matter of getting out and ahead of the problem. One thing which I understand over the years is I'm settling on, hey, we have this infrastructure check, but I look at, okay, which goes out to the RCI people, that is our residents. That's essentially, that tax, a,
 Every resident of City Rock, our businesses, they don't pay that tax, they charge that tax. You go into the gas station, you pay that owner, that person, they're charging you the tax. Knowing the impact that that tax has on our business owners is just because if it gets to the point where that individual's tax is so high, I have to go buy my gas. For the water bill, businesses pay the water bill too.
 So this is actually bringing in a big group of rate payers to help with this infrastructure that normally wouldn't. Okay, all the people I buy, I buy an X number of business services every month. I pay a certain amount of that CIP sale time, and that's going to the road that I drive on. And the way I see it, I mean, I'm going to get so much road for that, let's call it 100 bucks I pay every month, or whatever else I'm working out.
 and the more I can get out of that as a taxpayer, that's what I would like. This way, instead of having to go in, you know, have that 100 bucks go to replace watermen, all the people who are charging me the tax, they can certainly help out too. They're consumers too. If we go in out of the CIT and start replacing watermen, then the businesses don't have to pay, but they are too. So we're essentially funding
 down. You know, we're giving them a pass on the cost of the water main replacement system. This is one that if it does get spread out over everyone. I'm not bad about this, because every business owner I've talked to would have to do their share for the city of Austin. Alright, but this is one where their beneficiaries of this just as well. The way I see it is, let's let them help share some of the cost. If we use TIP dollars,
 then there's a whole bunch of people who are gonna deem the benefit, you aren't gonna share the cost. And this is something you're gonna multiple public meetings about this, if any, and it's something that can happen to us anyway. It is, once again, five, 10, 15 years down the line. This is something, if the council today starts to refuel when you start proactively replacing the waterway, then the goal is 10, 15 years
 There's no water main break, there's no complaints. This is something, the action that we take will gain us nothing. If we don't take the action then, and we don't replace the water main, then we could have outages, we could have people who are already competing, that's the emergent water main replaced nine to five, and there's several complaints
 uh and then thirdly should we choose these tip hours worth of cutting and throw bunch of waterway players out of that equation and people who are willing to help out i mean the way i see it is actually better than the taxpayers in the city of loxford because more people who are making money in this town come in and help share the money thank you for the discussion we'll start with all the dirtiness in the background thank you i would agree with the question
 all of his remarks. This actually is a user fee as well. You know, in some ways you can adjust what you pay, but I would ask the chair and the mayor, the difference between cost and proactively. I don't know if Mr. Hanson can help us out with that. I just don't understand the cost comparison between emergency repairs versus a proactive repair. Is that fair? Yes, sir.
 I'll give you an example if we put in a new water main you know it averages about $250 per foot if we take an example of a water main break let's say in your house that was about $50,000 just for that water main break on that street it's about 20 hours to fix it so it's an aging infrastructure you know depending how big the bust is and you know how big the water main is it's what it's going to cost and a similar part of that would include
 Yeah, because it happens in the middle of the night, people get called out. In this case, it was on the weekend, so, you know, that's double time that you have out
 at a day rate versus emergency repairs. I know in my ward, I think I had like not last year, emergency. And that, I did not have one call. I had calls from five of those people that they were so glad that it was fixed because seven of those were done after 6 p.m.
 And that's not something that Public Works leaves. Well, you know, we don't have anybody right now. We'll be out tomorrow to fix it. They're out there within a half an hour. And I want to see us proactively fix pipes before we have to spend the money to repair a breakage. And again, all the nudges, I agree, this opens up more people to be paying this money so that we don't have to take it out of CIP.
 Thank you.
 here also helped us with that. And I think that we need to be very careful with what? If we know what they were here in December 2007, we had money in the bank, we had cash bills coming down there. We got our cash bills to be offered because it lasted two months. And that's not good. And I'm right now thinking about it. It's not the same time as we are. So right now, give this the time.
 that it should embark on this kind of expensive, you know, capital-saving program. Maybe it is. But for me personally, I'm glad that they've understood. I've told you that. Maybe then a lot of people don't know how painful that is to help out.
 So there's a specific question about on a ballpark figure, how much of our CIP, 1% sales tax is generated from folks who don't live in the community? Mr. Ryan, would you have anything on that? Sure. When we initially passed the sales tax and we embarked on some analysis with Northern Illinois University, it was approximately 35%.
 of the monies that we receive from outside the city limits for our sales tax program. If I may, just to give a little history, because I think it's important for the city council to understand that we've had disparities within our water rate really since 1970. Residential rate payers have always paid more than industrial and commercial users. The rate that your
 considering for approval tonight actually improves that equity in terms of I'd also point out that we're 70 square miles and we've had a lot of sprawl about the good and bad of that but we had a policy as a city of Rockford that every water main that got put into residential subdivision every water main that got put in on Del Coro to Riverside and East State Street
 we reimbursed the developer 100% of those money until 2001. So for 30 years, the existing rate base of the city was paying for that growth. And so that hurt us tremendously in terms of building up a fund and a replacement fund that we could be a reliable source. So even when we had monies in the 1990s and monies,
 we did not have enough money adequately to have a replacement program that would replace the infrastructure all the men in the beach and then we'll go to all of them back and we'll have them back to all of our jobs. I think that's the thing that we see and this should be the one. And I spoke to that and I said we're going to do it that way and we're still going to do it for our people. We're back to the business end, you said, here. I would have had three times to do the job. I appreciate
 Well, thank you, Mayor. I do certainly expect everyone to get a couple of things. I don't know if we're generous when we're providing the basic necessities. I don't know if we were flush with cash prior to 2007. Why can't we invest more into our lobby here today in dealing with this issue? I guess I would just like us to consider this, I think, the arrangement that Mr. Olson
 staff has done does put more of the onus on businesses and takes some of it away from our residents who are being I pay it far too much on a whole lot of things I would certainly ask that voting for this bill thank you Mr. Ollivar sure I've really looked at this issue with my own and after we say that we have an aging infrastructure but we also have an aging
 many of the calls from the businesses saying how my business is starting to need to thrive economic development. It's unfortunate that we have to do what we have to do. How do we get there to satisfy all the people? The inequities that Mr. Ryan was talking about, the industrial sector has been so advantaged in a while. Maybe we should move on to the problem is they've been leaving this place. They've left. The industry used to play probably half of our water bills, but as they left this community, the burden is on us today.
 But our aging population has come to a point where they can't support that anymore. We're telling them during the summer, you know, to save money, don't water your lawns. You know, but they pay these condominium fees over $100 a month, you know, for a year. That automatically pays for the water they water their lawns. So they can't stop doing it.
 So there is a fixed amount that consistently is charged to them. And, you know, we have to, as legislators and representatives, we have to listen to them at some point. You know, I'm listening to my constituency that says they cannot avoid this. It just takes you out. Thank you for the discussion, Mr. Holden. Thank you for wanting to ask. I have the city staff, relatively speaking, are willing to take that. Mr. Hanson.
 our rates within the city if you take some of these private water main systems and throughout the city we're probably in the middle to maybe the lower portion of all the water systems within the state any other comments on that from staff on our relative position as a point of information recall various times that we've looked at it I just wanted to clarify for
 the distinction between water production and water distribution. And the corollary for Dan Ahmed, who's got excellent, thinks the power, and that actually does the distribution. Similarly, we produce water, we pump it out of the community. The majority of that $75 million that we invested previously was in water production.
 So we've got filtration, we have a lot fewer complaints about the quality of our water. Very fair commentary that we have a lot lower volume. It's the same thing comment deals with efficiency. So to the extent we become more efficient and less used, then you've got a question about managing your distribution system. So with us, we have this question about managing our distribution system. What we're using is actually way down in volume
 The good news is we have tons of great water. The bad news is we're a long way from California, so we're not pumping water, obviously, to the deserts out there. But I think, quite frankly, this is not taking a position one way or another in the boat, but we do have a lot to be thankful for in terms of our water system and integrity overall. There's obvious questions and tensions about how we pay for it, but I appreciate all the work the staff has given to provide these opportunities.
 all the cattle yeah and the majority of people have to pay for a basic rate based on the current proposal yeah I don't know if you've got that yeah 65% of our residential users will go up about 7% where the increase it doesn't go over it goes up it goes up it goes up it goes up it goes up it goes up
 over what period of time i guess is the question it's it's it's for just this next year but yeah overall it's gonna be 12 this year proposed six percent next year and three percent for the next three years so let's just say in the basic water bill i don't know that that residents are going to be happening so just say the bottom line of whatever the minimum charge is it's about a dollar
 And that, by the way, you were referring to a specific document. I'm just glad. Or Ms. Hanson, anyway. Yes, in the memo that was handed out. Okay, thank you. Other questions? Appreciate the discussion. If there are no further questions, I would ask the clerk to please call the roll. And, again, this is both for items 2 and 4 under C, under the purpose of the roll. Answer? 3. 3 is not. 2 and 4. 2 and 4. 2 and 4.
 number two 7 I think you're going to pass litigation matters just litigation motion and second discussing litigation matters
 Is there any discussion? If there are none, click this call roll. Mr. Ketchum? Hi. Max Amir? Thank you. We will recess for the purposes of discussing in closed session actual and directed litigation matters in return after the recess. Thank you.