Here. Mogerman. Got it. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvin. Irvin. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here.
 I'M HERE. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. BEACH? BEACH? HERE. HERE. KINONAS? KINONAS? KINONAS IS PRESENT. KINONAS IS PRESENT. HANLEY? HANLEY? HERE. HERE. MCNEILLY? MCNEILLY? CIRRELLI? CIRRELLI? YES. YES.
 It's really.
 14 present. Thank you. And just a reminder, just a notice, sometimes you'll hear this, Chaz will ask if you're present more than once. It's because if you've just unmuted, often it gets cut out. So please just pause like two or three seconds. That way we can click back in and we can all hear you. Because sometimes truthfully, I'll hear you. And sometimes she'll hear you, but we won't hear the same one. So just if you could wait two or three seconds once you're on mute.
 All right. So Mr. just for simplicity's sake, am I able to provide all three of these journal items or do we have to go each one separately? I'm going to defer to Nick on that. I believe we can vote out on the journal items all at once. Typically these are taken one by one.
 All right. Except the one-time counsel. Except the one-time counsel. We have wonderful counsel, not to our attorneys. I just want to say it. I really respect each of you. Okay. Thank you.
 It was quick. All right. First item, I don't see acceptance of journals. Journal, was there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on October 13th, 2020? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. We have no discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logaman. Thank you. Logaman.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Hoffman. Hoffman.
 SPROWS? AYE. BEACH? AYE. QUINONAS? AYE. QUINONAS? AYE. THANK YOU. HANLEY? AYE. HANLEY? AYE. MCNEILLY? AYE. SHERELLY? AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 Okay. Next up, is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on October 19th, 2020? Second. Second. We have no discussion. Clerk, will you please call the order? Durkee. Aye. Thank you. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvine. Aye. Kuhnberg. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Stanley. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli.
 Aye. 14 aye. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the general proceedings for the City Council meeting held on November 2nd, 2020? So moved. Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 HERVEY HERVEY AYE THANK YOU IRVIN AYE THOMPSON KELLY AYE HOFFMAN AYE ROSE AYE BEACH BEACH PRESENT AYE
 Oh, oh, Stanley. I make me Lee. Hi, Charlie. 14, I just want you to know you're the best 2nd. We have no proclamations 3rd petitions and communications.
 I'll read these in. We have nothing under planning and development. Under Code and Regulation Committee, item number one, Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on November 17th, 2020, and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on November 23rd, 2020 are referred to committee. Item number two, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board
 Agenda for the meeting to be held on November 17th, 2020 and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on November 23rd, 2020 have been referred to committee. Item three, memoranda from Matt Flores, Assistant Neighborhood Stabilization Supervisor regarding the proposed additions to chapter 29, article two of the Code of Ordinances for the horse-drawn carriages, referred to committee.
 I'm sure you are all eager to debate that. Item C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number one, Member Adam from Angela Hammer, City Attorney regarding an agreement with Cherry Valley Fire Protection District for rental of a fire engine referred to Finance and Personnel.
 Item 2, memorandum from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director regarding a contract between the City of Rockford Human Services and Road Transit. It's been referred to committee. Item number 3, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director regarding the 2021-2025 Capital Improvements Plan. It's been referred to committee. Item number 4, memorandum from Jennifer Kachaparia.
 Manager of the Mayor's Office of Domestic Violence and Human Trafficking Prevention regarding the acceptance of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Victims of Crime Act Fiscal Year 2019 Multi-Victimization Grant Award. That's been referred to committee. We've also already went through all five public speakers this evening. Next up, we have...
 I just need to announce that we are in receipt of the Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $412,836.33. That's a wonderful announcement. Thank you, Attorney Myers.
 Next up, we'll go to new committee reports planning and development committee. We have one item. Committee recommends approval for an economic incentive agreement between the city of Rockford and 2018 Sandy Hollow LLC for the redevelopment of 15XX Sandy Hollow Road, former Kmart Shopping Center. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. We have a motion to approve. Thank you.
 don't need a motion for this oh i'm sorry uh is there any discussion saying none clerk could you please call the roll jerky hi logeman hi timber hi brah hi
 Herbie? Aye. Irvin? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? I'm sorry, Hanley? Hanley?
 MCNEILLY? MCNEILLY? AYE. GUERRILLI? AYE. 14 AYE. CALL THE CALL. CALL THE CALL.
 Thank you. Item passes. Next up we have item B, Code and Regulation Committee. Item number one, committee recommends reversing the Traffic Commission's recommendation of no action for the following item. Is this item going to be held out?
 Okay, I'm sorry. I'm holding out item number one. Item number two, committee recommends approval of plat number three of Perryville Promenade subdivision. Item number three, committee recommends approval of the PUD intended at plat of OSF St. Anthony subdivision. Item number four, committee recommends approval of the plat of WA Whitney subdivision. Item number five, committee recommends approval of the 2020...
 in 2021 contract between the city of Rockford and Winnebago County Health Department for a tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. Legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinances.
 Item number six, committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford liquor ordinance chapter three, articles one and three. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number seven, committee recommends approval of the proposed revisions to chapter 25 of the City of Rockford solid waste ordinance. Item number eight, committee recommends approval of the proposed revisions to chapter 17, creating section 17-7 of the City of Rockford's code of ordinances, nuisance solid waste.
 Item number nine, committee recommends approval of the proposed revisions to Chapter 17, creating Section 17-8 of the City of Ocracota Ordinances Nuisance Underground Storage Tank System.
 Item number 10 committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for item letter A the zoning map amendment from R3 multi-family residential zoning district to C2 limited commercial zoning district and item B special use permit for a planned unit development for a hospital campus in the C2 limited commercial zoning district at 5666 East State Street which is OSF healthcare.
 Subject to commissions and legal director shall prepare appropriate ordinance. Item number 11, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a special use permit for business use to allow tire shop outside stores for incidental use in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 1121 Coburn Avenue. Item B, reversing the zoning board of appeals approval of a special use permit for three
 eight by 40 feet storage containers in the I-1 light industrial zoning district at 1121 Kilburn Avenue. Subject to amended conditions, legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number 12, appropriate committee recommends reversing the Lakers Backwood advisory board approval for the sale of tobacco in conjunction with a convenience store in the C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1706 Rural Street,
 So there's 12 items. One is being held out. So there's 11 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 11 items? And again, Alderman, I do apologize for this inconvenience, but WebEx changed this so we're not going to be able to have you raise your hand. So if you would just unmute yourself and we'll try to be patient with everyone. I'd ask for clarification, Your Honor. This is Alderman Hervey. Okay.
 on which item will you write clarification number 11 when we discuss this were there some amendments or changes or is that reflected in under number b to reverse the approval so the outside storage is gone i'm sorry the outside storage containers are gone but did we not amend and put some conditions
 On the outside storage. Yes, we did use for the tires. Yes, we did. We did it and it has amended. I'm sorry I didn't see the yeah. No, I'm sorry. Underneath item B is that subject to a limited conditions.
 Okay, so for both of those. Okay, thank you. And Your Honor, Alderman Thompson Kelly, there were 10 conditions that was added, and one of them is other than vehicle bumpers on the rack, outdoor storage, non-opera vehicles, and auto parts are prohibited. That is one of the conditions that was placed there by legal. Okay.
 Thank you. Any other discussion? Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Trolley. Thank you. I just want to thank Director Nick Meyer and his legal team for the work he did on item number six, the amendments to the Rockford Liquor Ordinance. I really appreciate that. I know there are important amendments going forward for the liquor community and the businesses in our community. And I just wanted to thank you for that. I'm in full support of those amendments. Thank you. Thank you.
 Any other discussion? Leon, Clark, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Abstain on number 10 and the rest. Bogeman. Aye. Tumberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irving. No on number 12.
 Aye. On the remainder? Irvine? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Rose? Can you hear me? Aye. Thank you. Beach? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp? Aye.
 Kinones? Aye. Hanley? McNeely? McNeely? Alderman McNeely, you're muted. Aye on the remaining. I'm sorry, can you repeat that? No on six, aye on the remaining. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli?
 I. Item 2, 3, 4, 5, 14 ayes. Item 6, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item 7, 8, 9, 13 ayes. Item number, I'm sorry, 14 ayes. Item number 10, 13 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 11, 14 ayes. Item 12, 13 ayes, 1 no.
 Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Item 1, Committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $8,640,822.88 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on November 9th, 2020.
 Item number two committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the state of Illinois for Auburn Street corridor study for Auburn Street between Springfield Avenue and Main Street. The funding sources, federal participation at 80% in the amount of 120,000 and local participation, which is MFT funds in the amount of 30,000, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number three, committee recommends approving a contract between city of Rockford Human Services and Youth Services Network. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number four, committee recommends approval for Rockford Promise NIU Scholarship Program proposed intergovernmental agreement among the Board of Trustees of Northern Illinois University, Rockford Promise, City of Rockford, Board of Education, Rockford Public School District 205. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Alderman, we have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? I have a follow-up discussion on number four. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have a quick question. Does District 2.4 directly contribute financially to Rockford Promise?
 They do not. They provide counselors, additional counselors, providing additional assistance to get their teachers to master's degrees levels, and they are working to get all students into Running Start. Perfect. Then just a reminder to some aldermen, there was some question about...
 contributions from the private schools just a reminder that every one of the parents who live in Rockford who send their students to an alternative education program still pay property taxes and taxes to district 205 for which they receive no services but to that end your honor I would like to make a motion to hold this out so that I can work with the legal director and
 to add an amendment to this to allow all students to participate, all students living in Rockford to participate in this program. I'll hold this item out. Is there any second or follow up from any of them?
 Looks like that motion has failed. Crashed and burned again. Any other discussion? We have four items before us.
 Alderman Faust. Thanks. I just want to dovetail on Alderman Durkee. I really think that this is a good program for students in Rockford. I think the most important thing is that we focus on students and not on the schools in which they come from.
 and i think i just think that's really paramount here because uh you know we're not there's just no reason to have this debate right about public schools versus private schools versus parochial schools uh who's raising more money uh who's paying more what what you know i think it's so important to look at just that we focus on all students that live
 RESIDE AND THEY OBVIOUSLY HAVE TO LIVE AND RESIDE IN THE CITY OF ROCKFORD. AND GOING FORWARD, I'M GOING TO TAKE YOUR STAFF AND YOUR ADMINISTRATION IN HAVING DUE DILIGENCE TO GET THESE NUMBERS BACK TO US. AS ALDIMAN TUNEBURG ALSO MENTIONED ABOUT THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS, HE HAD SOME CONVERSATIONS
 And I really think that what we're really arguing over, hopefully not much more and it doesn't cost much more to add some extra funding in to have the ability to fund for all students.
 Thank you, and I heard that loud and clear. Thank you. Alderman Hervey, I'd like one more piece of information because I think it's gonna be important to watch as the program goes forward with whether it even makes an impact on families choosing to stay in Rockford. How many of the students, regardless of the source, previously went to NIU,
 on an average year versus how many will start to choose to go to NIU in future years.
 I'd like to see if it does have that impact and that'd be a good metric to look at. But I also agree with Alderman Frost. I hope in one day in the future, our alma mater will be among that group and we would have the funds to support students who would go to any public school. The original promise we wanted to make was that students who went to any public school in the state of Illinois would receive...
 I'm trying to come up with some average or some amount of money. Some schools are more expensive than others. Um,
 BUT WE WANTED TO EXPAND IT TO ALL SCHOOLS IN THE STATE OF ILLINOIS. SO I HOPE ONE DAY NOT JUST PRIVATE SCHOOLS, BUT THAT WE ALSO LOOK FORWARD TO GIVING STUDENTS A BROAD CHOICE WITHIN THE STATE OF ILLINOIS. AGAIN, THIS STUFF IS ALL GOING TO COME DOWN THE ROAD. AND I THINK IF THE PROGRAM GETS BETTER, WE CAN DEMONSTRATE TO THE BUSINESS COMMUNITY AND TO PRIVATE DONORS.
 that we do have students who are choosing to go to Illinois schools or to go to Northern even in numbers 50 of more that went previous years 100 more than attended in previous years that's a plus for the entire state of Illinois system so I hope we can monitor those numbers also thank you absolutely we will have baseline metrics uh
 Seeing none, other clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Logerman's aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Frost. Aye. Thank you. Hervey. Aye. Irvin. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Can you hear me?
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye for 1-3 and a big aye for number four. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? McNeely?
 McNeely. Hi. Cirelli. Hi.
 14-9. Next item up, we have motions and resolutions. Planning and development. Community recommends approval to accept CARES Act additional community development block grant coronavirus funding to support a microenterprise loan program.
 Is there a motion to approve or we don't need a motion? I'm sorry. Is there any discussion? Team Nunn, Kirkwood, please call the roll. Durkee. What's Durkee? Durkee. Hold it. Thank you. Logerman. Logerman, aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Aye.
 HERVEY? HERVEY? HERVEY IS AYE. CAN YOU HEAR ME? YES, THANK YOU. IRVINS? AYE. THOMPSON-KELLEY? AYE. HOFFMAN? HOFFMAN? AYE. ROSE? AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 AYE. THANK YOU. BEACH? AYE. QUINONEZ? AYE. HANLEY? AYE. MCNEILLY? AYE. SHERELLY? AYE. 14 AYES. AYE. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
 Thank you. Next up, Item B, Code and Regulation Committee. Committee recommends approval of the state events scheduled for November 28, 2020 in downtown Rockford and Santa visits from 11 to 4 p.m. on November 28, December 5, December 12, and December 19. Any discussion on this item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Turkey. Logoman.
 Rogerman aye Toomer Kirby aye Captain Kelly hi Hoffman aye Rose aye Beach all right Kenanis hi Hanley
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 item number c committee recommends approval of the proposed canvas fund resolution creating a canvas fund utilizing the three percent local tax on canvas sales for the purpose of funding programs for economic development for economic and business development education youth programming training
 health or other financial assistance, individual businesses and communities within the city of Rockford that have been disproportionately impacted by Canvas related laws. Item two, committee recommends approval of the contract renewal. Third party administrator for the medical and hospital for 2021 health insurance plan and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois for the contract amount and rates of $54.17 per employee per month for PPL plan.
 $32.25 per employee per month for HSA plan. Following the reduction for prescription rebates. Total estimated annual contribution costs are 619, for $699,168 based on 919 PPO participants and 263 HSA participants. The contract duration is not in there. Funding for it is the health insurance fund.
 I just want to be upfront. This is the time I wish Alderman Frost was reading all of these items. Okay.
 This is not a son anymore. Committee recommends approval of the contract renewal dental benefits for 2021 year plan with Metropolitan Life Insurance for contract and loans rates of $27.84 employee only coverage, $65.75 employees plus one, $126.20 family. At the current enrollment level, the total estimated annual premium is $1,192,727.00.
 Contracts one year, it's health insurance fund, who has been paying for it. Item number four, committee recommends approval for the contracting rule of employer paid group life insurance for the city of Rockford employees with metropolitan life insurance with contract amounts and rates of 0.108 per 100, 1000 of life insurance coverage and 0.025 per 1000 for AD&D.
 At the current employee count, the total estimated annual premium is $48,251. The contract duration is one year, and the health insurance fund pays for it.
 Item number five, committee recommends approval of the work for non-competitive contract. Traffic signal equipment to the mobile tracks, the mobility and traffic experts of Davenport, Iowa for an estimated annual value of $300,000. The contract duration is one year. Traffic fund operating budget is a funding source. Committee item number six.
 committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract sidewalks called to pro source offered on the way that's an estimated contract of 40 000 hours based on the unit pricing the contract duration is one year before possible one-year extensions funding sources property fund operating budget item seven committee recommends approval of the joint purchase
 purchasing contract vehicle lease program with enterprise of oak brook illinois for the release of six 2021 gmcc or double cab four by four trucks with selected options for six months the cost per vehicle is twenty four thousand one hundred and fifty six dollars lease payment is two thousand six hundred and fifty nine dollars from five one twenty twenty one to ten thirty one twenty twenty one funding sources departmental operating budgets
 8 recommends approval of the change order janitorial supplies to supply groups which is home depot of Bedford Massachusetts original amount is 70 grand
 Second, an overall change order amount is $35,000, bringing the total contract to $105,000 due to increases in purchases of janitorial supplies associated with COVID response. Staff is requesting an increase to the contract for an additional $35,000. The contract is currently in its second extension, with two extensions remaining. The funding sources vary as operating budgets.
 item number nine committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement 2021 to 2022 go to inspections through hr green ink mckembrane arnold in an amount of 187 177.7 the contract duration is 2021 to 2022 funding sources mft dollars in other tax dollars
 item number 10 committee recommends approval of a resolution for improvement under the Illinois highway code that requires authorization for using motor fuel tax hour funds for 2021-2022 bridge inspections in an amount of 200,000.
 Item number 11, committee recommends approval of the board of engineering agreement for West state street sidewalk gas phase one to CPS of Belvedere, Illinois in the amount of 23,600. The project estimated to be completed in 2021.
 Funding sources of sales tax. Item number 12. Committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement. East State Street sidewalk gap space one to CES of Belvedere, Illinois, in the amount of $39,400. The project is estimated to be completed in 2021. Funding sources of sales tax. Item number 13. Committee recommends approval of the Head Start self-assessment report, self-assessment work plan, and program goals. Item number 14. Okay.
 Committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the administration of children and families office of head start annual continuation of head start early head start services for the period of 4-1-2021-23-31-2022 and to accept their award funds. Item number 15, committee recommends approval of DCO economic support payments grant. The city of Rockford has been awarded an economic support payments grant to assist business.
 Business disrupted by COVID-19 from the State of Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. The city applied for $900,000 to assist bars and restaurants that experience a significant reduction in average monthly revenue in 2020 compared to 2019. Their maximum amount was $7,500 and will assist approximately 120 businesses.
 I'm just so thrilled I wasn't on mute during that whole time. So I don't have to repeat myself. Is there any discussion on any of the 15 items we just read and Alderman Tuber? You stole it from me, mayor. I was gonna say you were on mute that whole time. So you're one step ahead. On item number one, I just wanted to clarify on the 3% local tax.
 with the cannabis sales going to fund the programs, et cetera. Is infrastructure of any sort included in this, or would it be if it is, would that fall under economic and business development? Because to me it looks like it's really this is only going towards
 things that are disproportionately impacted by cannabis-related laws. So, I mean, do we have anything in there for economic business development infrastructure that may not be directly laws? So, Mr. Meyer, Mr. Kegner, you can address it. My understanding is that it's a lot of things. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. So infrastructure, public infrastructure is not specifically stated. However, economic development is stated in the intended use of these funds potentially. So what that might be, couldn't be a public infrastructure tied to an economic development project. I
 I wouldn't preclude it per se, or there's nothing precluding it here, but it would have to be a strong case that is tied to an economic development. So maybe we have an individual that's starting up a business in an area that an individual had historically been negatively impacted related to cannabis laws in previous years, and they want to sidewalk construct it as part of the project to meet the end date, that potentially could be it, but it's not specifically stated
 We also know that everyone should have received an email from Director Meyer today for an amendment that is being proposed by Alderman Irby as we advance the discussion on this particular item. So, do I still have the floor? Okay. Thanks.
 So I know this has come up, I mean, this item. I just have a little bit of an issue with, you know, we get legalization, we have marijuana come within our community, and then we spend the tax on that to combat essentially the
 the causes of what we are welcoming into our community. I guess, am I missing something here that, you know, it just kind of seems like you're chasing the tail of the dog.
 So I guess I can answer that. No, this isn't the fight, you know, the current cannabis, it's the decades and years of historic negatively impacted individuals and communities who've been targeted or impacted by previous enforcement of cannabis-related laws or, you know, the other economic follow-up from that.
 not, it's not like it's creating to combat current, the current canvas law, the impact that will come with that is for previous harms.
 Go ahead. I'm sorry, Kevin. I don't know if that could be either Mr. Cagnoni or Mr. Meyer, but I mean, so the way I'm reading this then is if an individual needs to sign off a place in front of his business and he or she has been arrested for four times in their lifetime of a cannabis-related offense, somehow we're going to help that particular person
 It seems a little bit subjective, and I don't know how we define how a community or what part of the community. I mean, are we going to go like street by street, block by block, and look and see if there were marijuana street corners back in 1978? I just don't know the way it's worded. Your Honor, may I add something here because I think it's going to help? Okay.
 You're muted. No, I'm not muted. No, no, I'm here. I am. Okay, sorry. Alderman Frost, do you mind if Alderman Hovey provides a talk? I'm hoping that it can help for both he and Alderman Bloomberg. Okay, go for it.
 The war on drugs, not just the war on drugs, but law enforcement in particular, has a much heavier thumb, if you accept that, in certain communities. That has been especially true of the war on drugs in the African-American community. If you remember the disparities in crack cocaine versus powder cocaine.
 the enforcement of marijuana as a treatment vehicle versus an incarceration vehicle. It was especially heavy in the African-American and Latino communities because we tended to be in adjacent communities. There were also poor or white communities where that enforcement was
 Whether it was for traffic stops, looking for weapons, looking for drugs, it was much more heavily enforced in communities of color and poor communities than it was in more economically stable and healthier communities.
 So when they talk about using this money, we're talking about, and I've had many discussions with people about this. Economic development, in my view, is down the road way, way, way. We've got people who cannot get a job today because they have convictions for cannabis-related crimes that...
 but for being stopped in a traffic stop, the marijuana never would have been found. Were they breaking the law? Absolutely. They had marijuana before it was legal. Was that kind of stop imposed evenly across the city? Absolutely not. And it wasn't just in Rockford. So what this money, one of the first things we're talking about is finding people who are having those difficulties and helping them. Just an example, you know,
 Having legal services available where they have may have a more tangled expungement or not being able to get them expunged, but sealed people who were turned away because they didn't meet the time requirement and may have had some other conviction or arrest in the meantime, because let's.
 Be honest. If you have an arrest on your record, it doesn't matter whether it's legal to not hire people because of the number of arrests. They're still going to get impacted. So it's helping people clean those things up, especially what were lower level marijuana crimes before Governor Rauner implemented the 10-ounce.
 Which actually didn't make a big difference in some communities. So when they say certain communities, you don't have to go street by street. I think it was Director Parham did a program through the state, Steve Stottleman did, and she said they had over 1,000 people show up.
 You know, I was worried about whether we were going to do enough outreach. We did one, me and another group. We had about six Rockford attorneys who volunteered to help. We were in a cold former restaurant that the heat didn't get turned on. We had 500 people show up and sit in the cold in February because they wanted some help getting their records.
 I would say I only saw about 40 people, and of those 40, 30 had relatively...
 They weren't as easy as just filling out the form. So it was going to take a little bit more, but not a lot more. And I think that could greatly help those people get employment, get access to housing that they couldn't get before. So that's what the funds are looking at being used for. Children who were placed into foster care began...
 because of some of these disproportionate impacts. But it's not something like putting a sidewalk, giving a guy free money for a sidewalk because he got arrested for having some marijuana. It's for the extensive harm that marijuana caused in our communities. Okay.
 Thanks. If I could just jump back in for a second. But I just don't feel, with all due respect, that the city of Rockford taxes that we're taking in from the sale of marijuana should go right back into those particular programs. There's already programs like that that exist.
 whether it was Senator Stoudamand, Prairie State Legal Services, volunteerism. I don't think the city of Rockford should be writing checks to lawyers for helping with the expungement process of people with cannabis-only related convictions. I mean, we're not a – you know, it's just not what we do as a city. I don't believe – I don't think we've ever done this before like this.
 Well, let me just the state even recognizes. I don't know how to describe it. If you don't live within it, if you don't see it, then you don't. But the state is talking about even some of the money that they have because they have long recognized that the war on drugs was not a war on drugs. It was a war on people.
 And those wars had huge impact within our community, whether it was busting up families, whether it was taking people out of school, the effects of incarceration. It doesn't go away just because you get out of jail.
 So everything from job training to, again, in the first cut, helping people get that jump off their record, because it wasn't evenly applied. So I'll let, you know, Alderman Durkee come on and tell me I'm full of crap because it wasn't just blacks and it wasn't just our community. Okay.
 But there was a huge difference in the way police arrested and even stopped people and implemented this war on drugs. It was never a fair war, and it was never a war on the drugs themselves. It was a war on people.
 Is there something that I could add to that? You can. First, before I get to everyone else, I want to make sure that Alderman Frost had his –
 item or his discussion out there uh then i'll go to alderman rose and i'll go to anthony kelly i mean i don't know how the wording is on it because i i don't know with alderman hervey's what her just position or opinion is as really what the way we're going to actually do it um i know there was an email today but i don't think that amendment is in front of us right now um and
 like i said with respect to how it's worded and how we're going to spend the money i i i think it's going to be a significant amount of money i you know at this point i would ask you to lay this matter over until you really come up with a better concrete way of how we're specifically going to use the three percent money uh and by identifying specifically uh either by community individual businesses instead of the way it's worded now
 So, at this point, we do have a motion to... Before we do that, can I read in the amendment? That would be Alderman Frost. Are you willing to withdraw your motion at this time so that Alderman Hervey can read in the amendment? Well, I guess... I promised I can't pull up the amendment later.
 Since we've received a revised, I've printed out three agendas today. And since it wasn't on the latest one, I would say no. I would just like to have my motion heard and we get it right and bring it back. I don't think if we have this matter laid over, it's going to be... Point of order, Your Honor.
 Point of order, Your Honor. Hi, Gary Alderman, Thompson County, and I'm doing my job, so give me a second. There's little circles almost on every head.
 So we have a motion to lay this over. All I was going to state is I would, to all the aldermen, the way I look at this policy is that I look at it as an umbrella policy that we're going to need to complete that information and the process of that information. So I don't think you're going to have, like, this much money goes to this business, this much money goes to this organization. This is really the policy for which then I'm,
 Staff would create that process that back that policy up and support that policy. But with that being said, there is a motion by Alderman Frost on the floor. I'll second the motion because I agree with Alderman Frost. There's sufficient
 they guarantee in the ordinance to move it forward. Okay, so we have a motion and a second. Mr. Meyer, do we need to have a vote on that?
 Wasn't Benitez making a motion to add that to hers before the motion to lay it over? No, Alderman Concentelli. Alderman Frost asked for a layover, and then Alderman Herby asked if she could have a second to give an amendment. Alderman Frost said not at this time, and so therefore, my understanding is I asked Director Meyer if I'm accurate or not. Okay.
 director meyer dr meyer could you please provide that answer so i believe a motion delay laying the item over would take precedent over a motion to amend the item there's a subject to the layover motion okay so there's then mr meyer does it is this a two uh layover no we need a vote uh
 And so I would also just say, I know a lot of people spend a lot of time on this. I would be happy to convene a meeting with some of those interested parties in this without breaking up Open Meetings Act. But I know Alderman Hervey, Alderman McNeely, and Alderman Thompson-Kelly have spent quite a bit of time on this, specifically in the last week since it was laid over. So first, thank you to you three for the time that you spent on it.
 Is there any discussion on the layover? I have a question. Alderman Thompson, Kelly.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, quite a bit of discussion was in regards to this ordinance as far as the 3%. But according to, and I understand what Ottoman Frost is saying, but we do somewhat the same thing for education. We just got through talking about FAMAS. We do the same thing for liquor, human services, mental health,
 i mean we invest into problems that is created into the community and this has been a problem that has been created so we were looking at a way to fund the problem without taking out of the budget thank you all right thank you uh any other discussion this i believe a motion to lay over
 Oh, thank you. Right. Could you please call the roll? Turkey. Turkey. He said I. Logoman. Logoman, no. Toonberg. Not laughing at Turkey. I'm laughing with Turkey. That's an I. Okay.
 Frost? Aye. Hervey? No. Irvins? No. Irvins? No. Thompson-Kelly? No. Hoffman? No.
 OFFMAN. ROSE. THANKS. OLDMAN ROSE. NO VOTE FOR ME. OLDMAN BEACH. AYE. OLDMAN QUINONEZ.
 Alderman Hanley? Aye. Alderman McNeely? No. Alderman Chiarelli? Aye. Alderman Irvins? And Alderman Hoffman?
 Hello, can you hear me? Yes. What is your vote? I voted aye. 7 ayes, 6 noes. Thank you. So now we have 14 items that vote. So I need to discuss how much 14 items.
 can you please call the roll tuber
 I'm coming in late on this one. I'm sorry. Are we voting one through? Two through 15. That's me except for the one that's been laid over. Yep. Okay. So we got that laid over seven to six. Okay. Aye. Frost. Frost. Aye. Thank you. Hervey. Aye. Irvin.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 I. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 13 ayes. Item number 8, 12 ayes, 1 no, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 13 ayes.
 Thank you. Next up, new business, Ordinances, Planning and Development. Item number, that's A, Planning and Development. Item number one, an ordinance approving an economic incentive agreement between City of Rockford and 2018 DT Sandy Hollow Row LLC for the redevelopment of 15XX Sandy Hollow Row, former Kmart shopping center. Is there any discussion?
 Please call the. Hey, Logan Logan. All right. All right. Hi. Hi.
 HOFFMAN? AYE. ROSE? AYE. BEACH? AYE. QUINONEZ? AYE. HANLEY? MCNEALY? MCNEALY? AYE. CHIARELLI? AYE. 14 AYES.
 Thank you, Charles. Next up, item B, code and regulation committee. Item number one, in ordinance establishing that traffic on, or that's been held up. Sorry, guys. Something
 Item number two, an ordinance approving the 2020 and 2021 contract between the City of Rockford and the County Health Department for tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks.
 Item number three, an ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford liquor ordinance chapter three articles one and two. Item four, an ordinance approving the revisions to chapter 25 of the City of Rockford solid waste ordinance. Item number five, an ordinance approving the revisions to chapter 17 creating section 17-7.
 section of the city of robert code of ordinances nuisance valid weights item six and ordinance approving the revisions until chapter 17 creating section 17 8 of the city of rockford quoted ordinances nuisance underground storage tank system
 Item number seven, an ordinance approving the zoning map amendments from R3 multifamily residential zoning district to C2 limited commercial zoning district and a special use permit for a planned unit development for a hospital campus and a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 5660 State Street.
 item eight in order to prove in the special use permit for business use to allow to allow tire shop outside storage for incidental use and in i1 light industrial zoning district at 1121 kilburn avenue we have eight items before us there's going to be discussion on those eight items
 Alderman Hervey, I just want to make sure that those amendments carry through to the ordinance. It wasn't specifically stated here, but... Thank you. They are. Thank you. Mr. Meyer, where's the... Thank you. Okay. And then the second. Just a quick note of recognition for Rob Willoughby. Um...
 Some of the things that he's working on here, I just happen to have an abnormal number of underground storage tanks that we had to work on, especially with regard to South Main and some other areas where we had some real opportunities for development. The Swedish Americans, well, they didn't have the underground tank, but there were some issues with previous underground tanks in that area.
 where Swedes was looking to maybe acquire some other properties. We've got a lot. There used to be three of those corners had little service stations when I was growing up. And on two of those corners, the tanks are still there. So it can create some real...
 um bars to development so i wanted to thank rob because he stuck with this for a number of years to get it to the place where these ordinances could uh could be put in place uh throughout the city so just wanted to recognize him for all that work thank you thank you uh and
 very hard work he does. So thank you for that recognition. Seeing no other comment, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Logerman. Logerman, aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Hervey. Aye.
 Irvin Thompson Kelly I Hoffman Hoffman I rose Alderman Rose and I beat Pinotas Hanley I Make me Lee
 Aye. Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes.
 Thank you. Sorry, I was getting clarification on those items passed. Next up is Item C, Financing Personnel Committee. An ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Auburn and the State of Illinois for Auburn Street Corridor Study for Auburn Street between Springfield Avenue and Main Street. The funding source is federal participation at 80% in the amount of $120,000 and local participation funds at $30,000.
 Item 2, an ordinance approving a contract between the City of Rockford Human Services and Youth Services Network. Item 3, an ordinance approving the Rockford Promise NIU Scholarship Program proposed intergovernmental agreement among the Board of Trustees of Northern Illinois University, Rockford Promise, City of Rockford, and Board of Education, Rockford Public Schools. That would need a suspension of Rule 15. So first,
 Is there, we'll take the suspension of rule 15. First, is there a motion to suspend rule 15 for item three? We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Uh, is there any discussion on that motion just to suspend the rules? Okay, none. Clerk, will you please call the roll on the motion to suspend rules for item number three? Turkey. No. Logman.
 LOGAN. LOGAN. AYE. TOOMBURG. AYE. ROSS. AYE. HERVE. AYE. IRVINS. AYE. TOWNSEND KELLY. AYE. BOFFMAN. BOFFMAN, AYE. ROSE. ROSE IS AN AYE. BEACH. AYE. QUINONEZ. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 So, no discussion clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Bogeman. Aye. Tumberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvine. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Kite. Aye. Kite. Aye. Kite. Aye. Kite.
 BASMAN. AYE. ROSE. AYE. BEACH. BEACH. BEACH IS AN AYE. KENONA. AYE. HAMLEY. AYE. MCNEILLY. AYE. CHIARELLI. 14 AYE. AYE.
 Thank you. Next up, we have officers' reports, and we'll just go through, I guess, as we normally do, Ward 1, Alderman Durkee. Hey, nothing other than I thought it was for the city of Rockford since we're talking about our youth growing up. It's kind of cool to watch Dean Lowry play against James Robinson Sunday. So...
 another group of at least two young men who are proving themselves. So that's good to see.
 Nothing important. To Alderman Beach, my daughter was looking on the screen here, and I was going through all the names, pointing it out to everybody. She came to you and said, can I call him Frankie? And I said, I'm sure he wouldn't mind. So that's all. I want to know what you're eating, Alderman Beach. That looks good. Alderman, what did you say? Okay.
 She's going to call you Frankie. Next up, Alderman Toomer. Alderman Beach, you can't hear anything? I'll email you, Alderman Beach. We got an officer reporting on Toomer.
 Hey, I just want to say thanks to everyone. We've done an immense amount of work over the past few days and spent a lot of hours. And, you know, I know it's time away from family and such, but, you know, it's what we're here to do. And good to be working with everyone.
 You were all the men soft. I would just agree with that. It was nice to have a. If someone said to me a spirited debate about something that's important for our community, and that we didn't spend. For 4 hours arguing about the 15,000 dollar price of the 7. Enterprise pickup trucks that we're working on. So.
 This, I think, was a great, one of those votes in a moment in Rockford's history that we're all going to be proud that we participated in such a debate and asked the right questions to make it better for everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
 alderman urban alderman urban do you have any officer report thank you mayor thank you uh alderman thompson kelly
 Yes, Your Honor, I do. I want to also acknowledge Dean Robinson. If the council remembers correctly, about three years ago, Alderman Faust and I had Mr. Robinson before city council. We also went to Springfield with him. He's an outstanding young man that has accomplished a lot in this community.
 And I also want to announce that I will not be seeking another term as alderman. This will be the end of the line for me. So. Wow. Alderman Thompson, Kelly, and I.
 Didn't expect that today. I just want to say first, and I just take the pleasure and I think I can say this on behalf of all the Aldermen. Thank you for your service to the city. I've actually had the opportunity to watch you in neighborhoods when I was not an Alderman, nor in city as mayor.
 Then as alderman, and now I see you from a different, even more different perspective as mayor, and you're an incredibly fierce advocate for the people that you serve. And I think the Seventh Ward and the entire city is better off because you served it. So just want to say thank you for all that you do. Thank you. I appreciate that. Next, Alderman Hoffman.
 Your honor, thank you. Thank you next up. Or what all of the and cross that. I'm really proud of the professionalism of this.
 Group tonight and and I think it says a lot about the people that serve both Democrat Republican. We, we tend to find our differences and find ways to work around them. And I'm glad I get to work with some great people. And I just wanted to share with all their woman, Thompson Kelly, you know.
 I've learned probably more from her than most other aldermen. She is, I like to call her the OG of aldermen, original gangster, because she just, she goes out and works for her ward just constantly.
 i i hope that someday there are other aldermen that can say they put in as much work as she has so i'm glad i've gotten to learn as much as i can from her and um sad to see her go um so i just wanted to share that with her thank you alderman beach we'll have more words about um and benita in a couple of weeks but i'm sad both of them go
 And Ann and I have done some great things together. Thank you for letting me speak tonight, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Quinonez. Yes, I want to commend Alderman Ann Thompson. The ward, she did an outstanding work in her ward. So I want to wish her well. That's all I have, Mayor. Thank you. Alderman Hanley. Nothing tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mary. I need to think. Yeah, I want to thank director. Or working with 1 of my constituents that have water running. And it was after his hours, his staff and him took care of it was over on rockton.
 And about a month ago, and I'm sorry I missed this, but I'm glad I thought about it. Jennifer in human services, she helped a lady. Her brother was in jail and he was sickly and she was trying to get his medicine to him. And Jennifer helped her to be able to do that along with the chief.
 So I just want to thank all of them for helping me to help my constituents. And I wish Anne, I wish you the very best. Hopefully you can enjoy your family.
 and enjoy retirement. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Schroeder. Yeah, thank you, Anna. Yeah, thank you, Ann and Vanita, for your service to our community. And I can probably announce I'm not going to be running for a third team. Thank you.
 And, Chad, it's amazing, Chad, how you can mimic the astronauts on SpaceX Resilience Capsule and how they sound when they report back to Earth. So it's very nice to hear that. So have a great night, everybody. Thank you. So before we close, I was pretty quiet during the Promise discussion, which probably was to the benefit of Rockford Promise as an organization. But I just want to say thank you.
 Really good debate and good discussion. Just a sincere thank you for the amount of time all of you took throughout this process. And I can tell you, I heard you, we will be reporting back on a host of different items now. And just as we look, I know it's not in our immediate purview as education, but when you look at those things that we do focus on, neighborhoods,
 look at economic development, you look at public safety, everything is tied to education in our community. And I think tonight we really told all the young people that we believe in them and that we care for them. And
 i really think you know tonight we dreamt a really big dream and hopefully uh with that big dream our young people will be able to do the same so i just want to say thank you uh for all the time that you put into it and i look forward to working with you further to expand so uh is there a motion we get to do a roll call one more time so that should be fun uh is there a motion to adjourn
 we have a motion second uh there is no discussion could we please call the role turkey hi hogeman hi it's about time you got it right dirty hi hervey hi irvin hi thompson kelly hi hoffman
 Rose? Rose is an aye. Beach? Keynotus? Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? 14 ayes. Have a wonderful night, guys. Have a good night.