Good evening. We will call to order the city of Rockford's regularly scheduled city council meeting for Monday, November 18th, 2024. This evening, we are fortunate that we have Chaplain Norma Barrera with us. Do we have Chaplain Norma Barrera with us? I do not see Chaplain. Alderman Beach, would you be willing to provide us with an invocation? Oh, fine. Father God, thank you for... a few quiet moments when we can come to you and seek your guidance and direction in what we do. We thank you for those that sit around this chamber and our leadership. We thank you, Lord, for those who have given their lives to protect our public safety. And we think about those who mourn the loss of loved ones, who are sick or in pain. Be with them this evening and us as we deliberate business around this council chambers. We thank you for it all. In Christ's name, amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee Loeberman Thunberg Frost Tarina Crouchy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey And body 9 present. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the strategic planning session held on September 30th 2024? We have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye Those opposed. Thank you next is there a motion to approve the journal and proceedings for the City Council meeting held on October 21st 2024 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion? I Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Any opposed? No. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on November 12, 2024? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Thank you. Next up, we do have two proclamations this evening. Our first proclamation is for National Apprenticeship Week, and we have Gina Corona from Workforce Connection, as well as Bernice here. Yeah, you can come on in. Okay. Good to see you. Whereas National Apprenticeship Week is celebrating its 10th anniversary of raising awareness of the vital role registered apprenticeships provide in creating opportunities by allowing apprentices to earn while they learn and preparing a pathway to good quality jobs and well-paying careers in Rockford and across the nation. And whereas registered apprenticeship programs enable employers to develop and train their future workforce while offering career seekers affordable paths to secure high-paying jobs. And whereas Rockford recognizes the role of registered apprenticeship is expanding opportunities and workforce that are inclusive of individuals who have been historically underserved, marginalized, and adversely affected by persistent poverty and inequality, thus providing a path for all qualified individuals, including women, youth, people of color, rural communities, justice-involved individuals, and individuals with disabilities to become apprentices and contribute to America's industries. And whereas Rockford recognizes that registered apprenticeship, a proven and industry driven training model, is a key strategy to improving job quality and creating access to good paying, family sustaining jobs for all, starting with youth and young adults while addressing some of our nation's pressing workforce challenges, such as rebuilding our country's infrastructure, addressing critical supply chain demands, supporting a clean energy workforce, modernizing the cybersecurity response, and responding to the care economy issues. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim November 17th through the 23rd of 2024 to be National Apprenticeship Week. I just before I turn you over if you have anything you want to add just want to simply say thank you for the work That you guys are doing at Workforce Connection I mean you've we've seen a number of initiatives come through City Council and if it's tailoring one of the first apprentices created here in Illinois Recently, but so much other work that you are doing at Workforce and just want to say sincerely Thank you for all the work that you were doing. Would you like to share any comments? I I will just say I would like to thank you for all of your support and the City Council for your support. And please look forward to a lot more work in apprenticeships over the next year to two years. The state is funding quite a few initiatives, and we are on board with all of them. and I know that it definitely takes all of us to make this work happen. And so anytime that we can get the word out about all the various things that we're doing, you know, we will look to, I communicate with many of you, you know, on a weekly basis, some of you even more often than that, and I just really appreciate your support. And I know that getting people into living wage jobs is something that's very important to everybody in this room, and we're here to support that work. Perfect. And one, don't want to put you on the spot, but you did win a pretty large grant recently, about $4.6 million for CEJA. Can you just give us two seconds on who you're looking for to help with that? I believe it's a pretty broad group and where they should go. Yeah. So the Clean Equitable Workforce Initiative throughout the state, you've probably heard a lot about it. We had a press conference and there are members of your board who are very well versed in this, but essentially it's any company in our region that has pretty much anything to do with clean energy. So not just the obvious companies like a solar company called Greenlink or the obvious companies, but there may be many manufacturing companies that are manufacturing parts for wind turbines, that are manufacturing solar parts. Many of the companies that support the aerospace industry are with emissions controls and things like that are eligible for these initiatives. And it is a training initiative. We do have partnerships that I'm very proud of with Zion West, Pastor Marvin Hightower, Awaken Foundation with Jaria Crudup. and Think Big with Dr. Sheila Hill, as well as Rock Valley College and Region One Planning Council. And so we are all working together to make that happen. It's a lot of money flowing into the region over the next three to five years, and we just got started. And so please look for more to come. We will keep you appraised of that. And it is definitely in most of, centered in most of the communities that you all represent. Thank you. Thank you. Next proclamation this evening is Her Sister Youth Empowerment Day. And then we have Janine Stevenson, as well as many others with us today. Come on in. Whereas, Positive Reflections Community Outreach Foundation recognizes this transformative power of education, creativity, health, and community support, and have identified a need in our community to bring together our diverse backgrounds, ideas, talents, to support our youth. And whereas understanding the need to empower our youth, the members of Positive Reflections Community Outreach Foundation are committed to creating a nurturing environment for all youth to grow, develop, and thrive within the Her Sister Youth Empowerment Center. And whereas the center serves youth typically between the ages of 9 and 19 and provides after school and homework help, ensuring every student has the guidance and support they need to succeed academically as well as life skills workshops, focusing on self-care, goal setting, and financial literacy to prepare individuals for a well-rounded and successful future. And whereas, Safe Haven for Youth also builds self-esteem with an art club and providing arts and cultural enrichment through music, dance, and writing, and encouraging creative expression and cultural appreciation. And whereas, the Youth Center has introduced health and wellness initiatives, including yoga, nutrition, mindfulness programs to promote physical and mental well-being. And whereas, the creation of peer support groups and social activities help strengthen the relationship between youth and provide a network of positive youth support. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city, do hereby proclaim November 22nd, 2024 to be her sister Youth Empowerment Day. Janine, you are involved in so many different things. Would you like to share us a little bit about this most recent activity? Hello everyone, and thank you for having me, Mr. Tom McNamara as well. My friend. I just wanted to say our latest endeavor has been the Youth Empowerment Center was created under the umbrella of Positive Reflections Community Outreach. Her sister is a sister project that we worked on for about two years, moved over into a building, 730 North Church Street, and I seen two empty rooms and said, there's a need for youth to go in there for a safe haven. It's not only for girls, it's for boys as well, but we focus on the girls, in which they can come in and be empowered, have seminars, everything is geared towards the youth, the art club, the We just recently was donated a salon, so now they're able to come in and get their hair done and feel like they love they self. You know, it's all about empowering our youth of Rockford. So at 730 North Church Street, where the umbrella of excellence is, we try to share the love with other youths to get along in Rockford and silence the violence in our community. And together we are stronger. Right, girls? Awesome. Thank you. Thank you. Do you want to do a photo? Oh, sure. Sure. We're waiting for you. You've got to go. Do you want to take one of those pictures? Yes. One of them? Sure. Why? Yeah. It's a full-time one. Okay, great. You got it? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Next up, we have a public hearing this evening. We have a public hearing for the 2025 Municipal Budget and Appropriation Ordinance, and we'll turn this hearing over to Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. I hereby call a public hearing on the proposed 2025 Municipal Budget and Appropriation Ordinance to order. Pursuant to 65 ILC s 5 slash 82 dash 9 a public hearing must be conducted By the City Council prior to the adoption of an appropriation ordinance Notice of this meeting was given by publication in the rock register star on October 20th 2024 that notice informed citizens of Rockford that a copy of the proposed budget and appropriation ordinance could be Reviewed in the finance department on the third floor of City Hall at 425 East State Street in Rockford from 8 a.m to 5 p.m on weekdays The proposed budget was also available online on the city's lovely website. Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed appropriation ordinance? If so, please kindly step to the microphone, give us your name, address, and make your statement or question. Any takers? Seeing none, this public hearing is hereby adjourned. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we're going to go to petitions and communications. WE WILL GO TO PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT. FIRST UP WILL BE ALDERMAN DERKEY. THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. I HAVE FOUR ITEMS, ALL MEMORANDUM FROM DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. THE FIRST ONE IS A MEMORANDUM REGARDING THE REGROW TIER ONE AWARD RECOMMENDATIONS. these will be referred to planning and development second is a memorandum regarding an economic development manager from i'm sorry regarding a proposed funding agreement with river district association this will be referred to planning and development The next is a proposed resolution for the commercial corridor property revitalization program. That will be referred to planning and development. Lastly, a proposed resolution for the TIF commercial and industrial rehabilitation program. This will be referred to planning and development. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Bailey. Yes, item number one liquor and tobacco advisory boards agenda for the meeting to be held on November 19th 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on November 25th 2024 referred to code and regulation committee item number two. I Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on November 19th, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on November 25th, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank You alderman Bailey next we are gonna go to Finance and Personnel Committee and alderman frost Thank you in all these matters We've the Finance and Personnel Committee number one is a member from Timothy Hinkins City Engineer Interim Public Works director regarded at 2025 through 2029 capital improvement program number two is a member from Sarah lays deputy director community economic development regarding approval to execute a 1,035,000 grant extension agreement with IDA for their homeowner assistance fund home repair program and And those that's that you're on those just those two Thank You alderman frost next we're gonna go to our public participation Portion of the evening want to remind our speakers that there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council Chambers you'll have three minutes to address a City Council and I've had some issues with this alarm going off in the last couple of meetings, but there should be an alarm that goes off that asks you to bring your comments to a close at the three-minute mark. If that does not work, I'll gently remind you that we are at the three-minute mark. Our first speaker this evening is Tino Gordon. Hey, good evening. So something historic just happened a few days ago. I don't know if anybody caught it. I'm not talking about the Mike Tyson fight. I'm talking about how the nation is now $36 trillion in debt. And a lot of people don't know how that is going to affect their everyday lives. More importantly, I'm referring to the senior citizens of our community when it comes to retirement and Medicare. There have been some letters going out, especially about Medicare, to some of the Medicare beneficiaries. But a lot of people are not reading it and simply are just misinformed. So I would like to... I know I've spoken to some of you individually, just see what can we do to just like provide a resource to our community so that they can get the knowledge and the information that they need. Another thing with that is a lot of the seniors in our community are also getting letters about their retirement and not knowing what to do. I just spoke to a lady who they are pretty much cutting the pension fund for the job that she works at. I just want to know how can we just put together some sort of resource so that people can go get the information, get the tools that they need so that they can just live their lives and live happy, better lives. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Acts, the first chapter, the eighth verse, it says you shall receive power when the Holy Ghost come upon you. What I want to speak about tonight, blacks must have money to get out of the hellish condition we are in in America. I attended a breakfast panel discussion hosted by Chicago's so-called blacks in finance, at which I was excited to be in the company of black wealth builders. Boy, was I wrong. This was a two-hour chat session with a panel of 10 and over 100 people in the audience, most from the world of finance. We had the chance to ask questions of the intellectual panel, each chosen to inspire and guide us. But I was astonished. They discussed—this is what they discussed—they discussed building political leverage in Donald Not one time did anyone on the panel or in the audience raise the important issue of building wealth in the black community. This is not the first time I've been in the company of educated blacks. And never has the debate of wealth accumulation led or concluded the dialogue. This is scary to me. How can black people, young or old, educated or uneducated, employed or unemployed, rich or poor, come together and not engage in the one important topic that will get us out of the hellish condition we are in? And we want to have political power. We need money. If we want to control the development in our community, we need money. If blacks want to truly generate collective influence, we must first find the fountain of wealth. Freedom is not cheap. We can't keep begging the establishments to help us. Blacks must have money to build. bargain, not beg for our freedom. Today, being in shackles and begging for something that's rightfully ours has helped others build kingdoms. They are legacy of inheritance built off the backs of blacks that have been used to repeat the cycle of control over the poorest class of people. There are studies that highlight the collective income of blacks. We have the money. That is in terms of what we generate through various means. Black people spent $1,695,875,725.18 in 2023. What black folks are missing is the constant flow of cash that continue to increase five or tenfold. We must be in the business of creating a massive flow of money on hand. will ensure that we provide jobs, good schools, and a safe community for our people. It will also influence policymakers who need money for their political survival. I utilize different places to talk about wealth. And Black Self asks me, Why do I talk so much about money? What else is there to talk about to get us out of the hellish condition we're in? I've told multiple people to resign from their jobs and see me in about three minutes. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. Next public speaker that we have this evening is Ken Dickens. Okay. Next public speaker we have this evening is Cypress Wolf. Welcome back, everybody. It's important to start with appreciation. I thank the land that we live on for housing us. The ancient and beautiful land which, as we know, was home to the Kickapoo, the Fox, the Peoria, Ho-Chunk, the Ochate-Chukowin, the Mayamean, Potawatomi, and Sauk tribes before colonizers came. We live in a time where it's gravely important that we find and live in love. With our culture constantly telling us to spend, we never feel content. We hide inside of events where we spend our money, we support local businesses but we don't support local people. We say that it isn't our job to speak on global issues, but where is our advocacy for local issues? Tom McNamara, have you addressed the police violence that May 30th Alliance has been asking you to talk about for the past four years? Has anybody addressed the overwhelming number of black and brown people who are dying? We appreciate that. With that in mind, I've only seen the criminalization of those who express their concern. I've seen the desperate pleas of the people ignored and squashed with an ever-increasing police budget. Have any of you made any effort to address the way in which your tax dollars are actively going towards a genocide? Each of us have a part to play. We are consciously creating a world, and I hope each of you are creating a world that you would want to live in. More than that, I hope that you create a world that would be good for the descendants of our Earth that will come in five, six, even seven generations from now. We owe it to ourselves to live in harmony with not just each other, but ourselves. And it's easy to hate, it's easy to destroy, it's easy to deny, but we must do the opposite, the hard work that comes from love, the hard work of creation, and the hard work of addressing our wrongs. Who here can fully grasp the complete extent of the damage that they themselves have done to others and ourselves? We block away whole parts of us which inevitably lead to our own self-destruction. And in this world, we can live in peace and harmony, but we have to do it on purpose. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNair, all you persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm still waking up from this nightmare from last week with the antichrist, dictator wannabe Donald Trump in office now. How is it that a person that's convicted of adultery, a person that's been convicted for 34 felonies, any other felon can't even vote, but yet we have him in the White House. Not only do he control the White House, he also control the U.S. Supreme Court, he also control the Senate, and he also control the representative. So what do that means? That means that the Project 2025 is alive and well. Even right here in Rockford, white privilege is played out on a large scale. Just this past few weeks ago, my manager was talking about the police department. I want to finish talking about the police department. We took a citizen police class, and we was talking about driving while being black, and the instructor was giving out false information. Instead of the instructor working and saying, what can we do to reconcile our situation, they kind of compounded that they have no decision and no reason for doing anything to improve driving while being black or putting false evidence on our youth. So what they told me was that as far as Chief Caldera goes personally, We cool as far as friendship, but she do her business because she's the chief of police. But when the chief of police tell me that the white people in that classroom is upset by what I'm, the questions that I'm asking and the truth that I'm talking about, and you put me out there class because of the white people, that is called white privilege. Going back to Donald Trump, Donald Trump made a statement that he's going to use the military and he's going to use the law enforcement to contain the people that he have a problem with and the law enforcement will be able to purge anyone who they want to purge that who they have a problem with. So I asked the law enforcement come January the 20th and 2025. Is Brother John Tech going to be at the top of the list when they give y'all the green light to purge? Or are y'all going to follow the document of the Constitution? Because right now, Donald Trump is putting peoples in place. He's putting the guy from Fox News over Trump. the Secretary of Defense. How you going to be over Secretary of Defense? You don't know nothing about the military. John F. Kennedy over the Health Department. Really? Our Democratic Party sit on they butt and let the Republicans walk all over them. I am highly upset. A lot of blacks... took their anger out because Obama left us hanging, so they didn't vote for Pamela Harris. Two reasons why they didn't vote for Pamela Harris, not only did the white people not vote for her, one of the main reasons they didn't vote for her is because she was black. Thank you, Mr. Branton. I'll be back to finish my speech. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Logerman, or I'm sorry, Alderman Durkee. Thank You under under new committee reports Roman numeral 6 a 1 Committee recommends approval of the development agreement with n track for the demolition and future development of 2729 Kishwaukee Street also known as Rock River School the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank You alderman Durkee counsel. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? I Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Thunberg? Frost? Aye. Pratty? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Bailey? Pass. 10-0. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Bailey. Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Item B, Code and Regulations. Number one, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a 20-mile-per-hour school zone speed limit. Restriction on Shaw Woods Drive from Spring Creek Road to North Cliff Lane. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number two committee recommends approval of the annexation of 2821 North Bell Road Legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item number three committee recommends approval of the annexation of 3738 South Main Street the legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item number four the Committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4555 Spring Creek Road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number five, committee recommends approval for authorization to place for sale the city-owned property located at 813, 819, 821, and 825 West Day Street. PIN numbers 11-22-286-015, 013-006, and 005, and 111 at 125 Kilburn Avenue. Parcel numbers 11-22-286-012, and 001, now known as 815 West State Street. PIN number 11-22-286-015. Dash 22 to 86 016. The parcel is located on the northeast corner of West State Street and Kilburn Avenue. The minimum bid will be $1,000 with preference given to nearby not for profit organization. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six item number six committee recommends approval of the proposed short term rental ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. So council we have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items alderman Bonnie? Thank you mayor I would move that we lay over item six We have a motion and we have a second to lay over item six. Is there any just said automatically laid over? Has it already been? Okay, now we have five items to discuss one through five any discussion on those five items clerk. Could you please call the roll? Prost Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Peach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Donnie? I'm sorry, Bailey? Aye. And Donnie? Aye. That's 10 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Adam. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $25,525,481.77 as approved at the Finance and Personnel meeting held on November 12, 2024. Number two, the committee approves, recommends approval of the 2025 budget and appropriation ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the 2024 tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of $56,379,842. For the levies in the corporate, police protection, police pension, fire protection, fire pension, street and bridge, judgments, public library, public library maintenance of buildings, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers' compensation, and auditing funds. The final city levy amount will be approximately $48,243,392.00. 4. The Committee recommends approval of the 2024 property tax abatements. For 2024, the debt service levy is $11,199,865 and will be abated in its entirety. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 5. The Committee recommends approval of the 2025 fee schedule. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 6. The Committee recommends approval of the 2025 Salary Ordinance that includes a 2% general wage increase for nonrepresented employees. The Legal Director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 7. The Committee recommends approval of the jurisdictional transfer between the City of Rockford and the County of Winnebago, transferring jurisdiction to the City for Linden Road from Alpine Road east of the city limits. The Legal Director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 8. The Committee recommends approval of the 2025 Salary Ordinance that includes a 2% general wage increase for nonrepresented employees. The Legal Director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number eight the committee recommends approval of the jurisdictional transfer between the city of rockford in the county of winnebago Transferring jurisdiction to the city of rockford for Bell School Road from Argus Drive to Guilford Road The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these eight minutes before you Thank you counsel eight items before us any discussion on those eight items clerk. Will you please call the roll? turkey Toomer Prati Hoffman Rose videos Bailey Ten eyes. Thank you. Next we're gonna go to unfinished business and committee reports laid over and we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman Bailey Item number one committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for for special use Permit for a plan unit development consisting of a strip center or Allah kosher grocery store. I a convenience store, dry cleaner, restaurants, community center, three office buildings, 28 duplexes, 25 four-unit buildings, 16 four-unit townhomes, and a C1. Limited office zoning district and R3 multifamily residential zoning district at 3, 5, and 9 South Milford. 61 East 8th Street district 8 1 5 LLC applicant the legal director Shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you council. We got one item before us any discussion that one item Clerk could you please call the roll? Bailey Ten ayes. Thank you. Next, officers' reports. Any council members have any reports that you would like to provide? Alderman Bailey. Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. About a week and a half ago, I attended maybe a week and a half ago, two weeks ago. I'm assuming you all are familiar with the Healing School Framework. We had 25 families at Lewis Linden in attendance at the listening session. And I got some good input from the residents. They broke out into sessions, had the kids go off into the gym and play while the family members discussed issues with the facilitators. So I would encourage you to support or become familiar with the Healing School Framework. Lewis Lemon is one of eight schools that is part of a pilot program working with Alignment Rockford. And we support the city of Rockford as well as RPS 205. Thank you. Thank you any other reports alderman Toonberg Thank You mayor The other weekend I had the privilege to attend the Leatherneck Classic Which is Rockford's first time for hosting that event. It's traditionally been in the Quad Cities It is a big collegiate bowling tournament brought about a hundred teams into the into our city all the way from Florida, Missouri, Iowa Kansas, Minnesota Indiana etc So want to say hats off to the summer family from Don Carter lanes and RAC VB and the organizers of the Leatherneck classic and a congratulations to Now it did take place Don Carter Park Park Park in Park Bowling in Loves Park and also Cherry Bowl and want to say congratulations to the Varsity men's winner which was Wichita State Alderman Berrios. Thank you your honor on Sunday in November the 24 at 2 p.m. at the VFW located located 922 7th Street is going to be a celebration of a hundred years of life and of Teofilo Quinones, father of the PES Alderman Tofi Quinones. Mr. Teofilo is a veteran of a World War II veteran, so everybody's invited to honor this gentleman for 100 years of life. Thank you. MR. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Thank you your honor. I'm just real quick as a member of the Rockford area Arts Council they are doing their annual appeal for Fundraising and so if individuals are looking to Donate to that wonderful organization They are getting their hands deep into all areas of art particularly helping vulnerable populations with their art programs continuing that model that they've they've dedicated a lot of work to but also You know a lot of people don't recognize the fact that they're a regional body and so they do cross our County lines in the Boone County doing arts programming They've been behind some of the bigger art initiatives. And we've also seen that arts in our communities is an economic driver. I believe it's the arts report that the county had released that has shown that $80 million annually is given throughout the arts in our economic system. And so it's a driver for. for our economy and it's something that the Rockford Area Arts Council has been a big part of and a big shout out to Mary McNamara for her work and all of this But if people are interested in donating they can go to the Rockford Area Arts Council On Facebook or they can stop by at the Shumway office To to to inquire about how they can donate. Thanks other reports. I Seeing none, we'll move forward. We have appointments laid over. It's appointment of Kiana Coleman to the Rockford Housing Authority Board to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Jessica Wilson for the term ending March 2025. Is there any discussion on that item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Thurkey? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Prati? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Bailey Thank you next we're gonna go to motions and resolutions and we'll go to planning and Development Committee and alderman Durkee Thank Your Honor. There's two items under Roman numeral 10 a the committee reference recommends approval and acceptance of the green infrastructure grant opportunities application to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the amount of $550,000 $894 for the Northwest Concrete Drainage Way. The grant requires a city cost match of $183,631. The funding source is the CIP General Fund. Second, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Budgetary Line Grant for Mason Avenue Reconstruction in the amount of $400,000. The grant does not require a cost match. The city's 1% infrastructure sales tax will fund any additional cost. Thank you. Council, we've got two items before us. Any discussion? Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Crotty. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Radios. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Tenay. Aye. thank you next we're going to go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost thank you number one the committee recommends approval of award of contract fire station six building renovation phase one through england johnson in the amount of 421 035 dollars this is a one-time purchase the funding source are arpa funds Number two, the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for staff scheduling software from Target Solution Learnings. An estimated annual amount of $29,423.50. Annual price adjustments are considered renewal only. The contract is one year with one possible year extension option. The funding sources are the fire department operating budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract PS track software for asset inventory to station automation. An estimated annual amount of $27,929.44. Annual price adjustments are considered renewal only. The contract is for one year with three possible one year extension options. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Number four the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive purchase contract for star chase vehicle mounted and handheld tagging and tracking Technology to star chase in the amount of one hundred and twenty five thousand eight hundred eighty dollars The funding source is the DCEO phase one grant. I place these four matters before you Thank You comes laying discussion on those four items before you Turkey I Thank You next we're gonna go to new business Plenty and development committee goes first alderman Durkee. Sorry next we'll go to plenty and development and alderman Durkee Thank You your honor under Roman numeral 9 a and Planning it developed an ordinance approving the development agreement with n track for the demolition and future redevelopment of 2729 kishwaukee street formerly the rock river school please set up for a passage Thank you, well there minute is there any discussion on this item clerk. Could you please call the roll? Toonberg Pratty Hoffman Rose Beach videos Bailey Aye. 10 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Bailey. Yeah. Item number one, an ordinance establishing a 20-mile-per-hour school zone speed limit restriction on Shaw Woods Drive from Spring Creek Road to Northcliffe Lane. A, traffic ordinance for Shaw Woods and Spring Creek. Item number two, an ordinance approving the annexation of 2821 North Bell School Road. a annexation of 2821 North Bell School Road ordinance item number three in ordinance approving the annexation of 37 38 South Main Street annexation of 3738 South Main Street ordinance in ordinance approving the annexation of 45 55 Spring Creek Road annexation of 45 55 Spring Creek ordinance Spring Creek Road ordinance in ordinance item number five in ordinance approving the authorization to place For sale the city-owned property located at what station you have to read the addresses dr. Myers Okay, thank you Honorable Myers Thank you Kilburn Avenue now known as 815 West State Street and The parcel is located on the northeast corner of West 8th Street and Kilburn Avenue. Ordinance to place for sale city-owned property at 815 West 8th Street. Item number six, an ordinance approving the short-term rental ordinance. Item number seven, an ordinance approving a special use permit for plan unit development consisting of a strip center for a haloculture grocery store. Convenience store a dry cleaner restaurants community center three office buildings 28 duplexes 25 four unit buildings and 16 four unit townhomes in a seat one Limited office zoning district our three multifamily residential zoning district at South Milford East State Street District 815 is the applicant and Thank you, so we actually have six items before us because item six has been laid over So we have items one through five and seven. Is there any discussion on those items clerk? Please call the roll Bailey tonight Thank you next we're going to go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you number one is an ordinance approving the 2025 budget appropriation ordinance Number two is an ordinance approving the 2024 tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director And accept the amount of 56 million 379 thousand 840 dollars for the levies in the corporate police protection police pension fire protection fire pension street and bridge judgments, public library, public library and maintenance of buildings, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers' compensation, and auditing funds. The final city levy amount will be approximately $48,243,392. 3. As an ordinance approving the 2024 property tax abatements for 2024, the debt service levy is $11,199,865 and will be abated in its entirety. 4. As an ordinance approving the 2025 fee schedule. 5. As an ordinance approving the 2025 salary ordinance that includes a 2% general wage increase for nonrepresented employees. Number six is an ordinance approving the jurisdictional transfer between the city and the county of Winnebago transferring jurisdiction to the city for Linden Road from Alpine Road east the city limits and number seven is an ordinance approving a jurisdictional transfer between the city and the county Transferring jurisdiction to the city for Bell School Road from Argus Drive to Guilford Road. I place these seven there's before you. Thank you Council we have seven items any discussion on those seven items. I Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Toomber. Aye. Frost. Aye. Pronte. Kaufman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Sonny. Ten ayes. Amazing. Thank you. I want to first say a sincere thank you to Director Haggerty and your entire team. The amount of work that goes into this budget process is always a lot, but I know it was a lot of effort this year as well because it wasn't looking as smooth towards the beginning. I just want to say thank you to you and your entire team for the work that you've done to get us to this point. With that, we actually, I was supposed to mention that we don't need the closed session item, so now we're just looking for someone to give us a motion to adjourn. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a great night.