Good evening. Before this is a special meeting of the City Council. We've already covered tonight the city minutes calling to order invocations, et cetera. We have one item presented tonight, which is the unfinished business committee report that was laid over. Is someone presenting that? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, sir. Under Roman numeral II, number 1,
 Unfinished business committee reports laid over. The committee recommends approval of the 2015 to 2019 consolidated plan, 2017 annual action draft plan, which directs the expenditure of community development block grant, home investment partnership, and emergency solution grants program funds. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and place this up for passage. Thank you. Are there any questions? Alderman Hervey.
 Is Mr. Cagnoni still? Right here. Oh, sorry about that. I was looking back there. One of the concerns I had, and I wanted to talk to Mr. Cagnoni about this whole issue with whether or not the consolidated plan, as it is very broadly written, and our approval of this annual consolidated plan is in any way a validation, approval, or a recommendation
 ratification of any of RHA's plans related to
 It's housing, some of which are under consideration by the Housing Committee and under concern of the City Council. And that was my concern because the statement has been made that the plans that they have put forth are directed by the city's consolidated plan. I'm not going to go into all the details on that. But I would ask Mr. Cagnone because the answer he gave was no, they are not tied together.
 This plan and this consolidated plan, annual plan draft, is specifically for the elements of these programs that are listed within the detail that he gave us. The home funds, the CDBG funds, including demolition, and the emergency solutions grants program funds. It has nothing to do with the program.
 broader sense of housing that we're all trying to get a grasp of. So I would ask maybe if he could explain that succinctly.
 Thank you and thank you for your consideration in holding this council meeting tonight so that we may move forward with this proposed annual plan. And as Alderman Hervey stated, that is correct. You know, what's before council this evening is the 2017 annual action plan. It's not the re-approval of the city's consolidated plan.
 where you're in year three of the consolidated plan. There has been discussions and we have amended it in the past, but what's before us tonight is the 2017 action plan which is built off public input directly from the aldermen through our neighborhood organizations and focused on
 neighborhood redevelopment and neighborhood health. The primary expenditures identified in this annual action plan is the $400,000 for residential demolition program, the CDBG dollars for code enforcement activity where a large portion of our staff is funded by CDBG and very isolated enforcement efforts.
 It's also tied to our homeowner rehabilitation program. Understanding it's for existing homeowners residing in our neighborhoods. And at the same time, we have a program for
 new homeowners, but that's outside of our areas of concentrated poverty and race as we move to implement the efforts of the consolidated plan related to deconcentration. So all the programs that are identified have been brought forward to the council, and that's what we're perfecting in this annual action plan. And with that, I'd be happy to answer any specific questions on the matter or go into more detail if you would like. Are there any other questions?
 I was so excited about calling the meeting to order, I forgot to remind you to call roll. And Alderman Newberg was kind enough to prod me to act and ask that perhaps you'd call roll. Madam Clerk, may I call roll? Thank you. Durkee. Here. Getches. Here. McNamara. Here. Frost. Here. Irby. Here. Connell. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here.
 Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli. Thirteen present. Thank you, Mr. Hayes. Are there any further questions on this matter? If not, second. This committee reports so you can take a voice vote on this. We'll go on the ordinance in a moment. All those in favor, can we give a say aye? Opposed? The ayes have it.
 Thank you. With respect to Roman numeral three ordinances, it would be an ordinance approving the 2015 through 19 consolidated 2017 annual action draft plan which directs the expenditure of community development block grant, home investment partnership and emergency solution grant program funds. Mr. O'Connor? Can we have a suspension of rules? Thank you. Any questions or comments?
 If none. We have a voice vote on the motion to suspend rules. Oh, do we take that? We have to have a vote. Oh, okay. A vote on the... If you can discern that there's 10 in favor from the voice vote, then you don't need to do a roll call. He didn't give me a cheat. Opposed? One opposed? Thank you. Any questions or comments? At this time, finally, Madam Clerk, can we call the... Here, Keith. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irby. Aye.
 Thompson, Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Elliott. McNeely. Chiarelli. 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. There we have it. The special meeting of November 14th is hereby adjourned. Thank you.