proceedings as we discern where you would lead this community. We pray this all. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, justice for all. If we could just keep standing for just a moment.
 Our chaplain mentioned it in his invocation this evening, but I just wanted to also take a moment to recognize the passing of Police Officer Carol Fricke. I want to thank Chief O'Shea and our entire police department for doing an outstanding job, I believe, today honoring her life and supporting demonstrably the love that our department has for her and her family.
 giving her a great amount of respect and admiration for her great career. We happen to be classmates coming out of Boylan High School and happen to see a number of our folks from our class that were here also to give honor to Carol and her life. Just a great outpouring of support for her and she's left a legacy in our department and the community that will always be remembered. So thank you Chief and thank you to the entire organization.
 And with that, I would like to just take a moment of silence in her honor. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. McNamara. Here. Frost. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Beach. Elliott. Beck. McNeely. Here. Chiarelli. 11 present. Thank you very much. We do have a motion to accept the two journals of November 7th and November 14th.
 These have been moved and seconded. Any amendments or changes to either of those journals or proceedings? Hearing none, all those in favor of approving the journals, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Our public speakers tonight, there are several speakers that have signed up. As a reminder to our public speakers, they have three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our first speaker tonight is Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 23rd verse, it says, The steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, evicted to distraction. Police officer work security at restaurants will tell you they have seen people come in for dinner and observe zero communication at the dinner table, often communicating on their phone.
 or phones, other times not. It doesn't matter if it's a Gold Coast restaurant, Denny's, or sadly the home dinner table. Cell phones routinely deprive loved ones and friends from the other's attention. Nobody is talking. Devices are taking a lot of lives. And the
 has entered law enforcement. Today's officer is overloaded with distractions, radios, a computer, lights and siren controls, lights and plate scanners, and those are work-related devices. There's something else more insidious contributing to officer distraction, personal cell phones at roll calls. Half the room is on phones. I've seen officers in the station, on a rest in their patrol cars while it is moving, talking or texting on their phones.
 This, well I'm related to their work. This is a safety issue as well as increasing the risk of some innocent bystander getting killed in the street. Some officers so engaged they carried their phone charges with them. I wonder what officers did before the invention of cell phones. They had to talk to each other in the car. I suspect this is a problem everywhere.
 work with someone addicted to checking text messages and emails and social media while they're shopping online. How safe do you feel? Doesn't this behavior worry you? Tell them to put the phone down. Your partner should have your back and looking down at a cell phone is a distraction.
 This is a distraction means slower response time in the event of something happening. If you are addicted to your phone, think about the impact it has on those around you as well as you. That phone call can wait. Let it go to voicemail. Resist the urge to constantly check text messages or emails. It's not healthy to constantly be on the phone while at work and especially when your office is a squad car. We all know an officer.
 who is on the phone too much. It's unsafe and frustrating to the partner you are assigned to protect. I once offered to buy a guy on my team lunch. If he put his cell phone away the entire ship, I didn't buy lunch. The urge to answer the phone was too much. I understand cell phones are necessary. Find a reasonable balance and I challenge you to go a day without using it. Set rules with your family. Challenge yourself to fight the urge to answer every
 call, email, and text message when you hear the tones, dings and rings. Put the phone away and see what happens. And in the Air Force, they used my sister about this text. They fired three officers for texting. One phone was texting a little girl at Kadena Air Force Base. He looked at that text. The girl got killed. The Air Force and all the military is cracking down. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Mr. Haldeman is not able to be here.
 So we'll go to Jennifer Smith. Attendance last week when there was some discussion about the Madison Street corridor study as it relates to the downtown revitalization plan. And I'd just like to come and share a few comments about that I hope when that discussion comes up again that you will move forward with approving the corridor study. But I would like to address a couple of the concerns that I heard in those comments, one being the cost of this particular study and the consulting work and the thought that maybe there was extra
 expertise here in the community that could complete that, I encourage you to move forward with those questions. And if there is that local expertise that can address
 the needs of that corridor study the best, then fantastic. Let's leverage that local opportunity. But regardless, I think it's really important that this moves forward as a key component of the downtown revitalization plan and it's certainly not the last step. I was looking over some of the minutes from about a year ago here at city council. It was December 10th of last year when the final plan was discussed and approved
 And the Madison Street route connects to a lot of the key strategies and outcomes of that plan, mobility, urban design, and economic development.
 And staff had laid out at that point how the downtown revitalization plan connects with the 2020 comprehensive plan and there are 19 strategic plan objectives where there are direct overlaps. So, I just encourage you to move forward with the steps of that revitalization plan and more the Madison corridor being such a vital connector for people who are walking and biking in downtown.
 dumps off there. The Jefferson Street walking bridge, which we now have a grant to revitalize, connects there. The rails to trails bridge as well as the sports factory are at the south end. And it's a great corridor where you could really start to do the TLC, the tactical lean climax approach and really do a lot of testing because it's straight and it's flat and it's
 Not too busy, but there's still lots of traffic. So speaking as a person who doesn't live in downtown, but uses that route very frequently, I rode my bike down at Friday night to go to dinner in downtown, I would love to see that move forward, and I hope you can consider it. Thanks. Thank you. Our next speaker is Todd Fagan. Good evening, Mr. Mayor, City Council. Ladies and gentlemen, my name's Todd Fagan, and I live at 1620 Chelsea Avenue here in Rockford, Illinois.
 I have 25 years of traffic engineering and planning experience. I was born in 1963, 53 years ago this month. In 1963 we had not put a man on the moon. The Beatles were just being introduced to America and civil and voting rights were not the law of the land. It was the first year of the five-digit zip codes.
 It was also the first year that touchstone phones were being introduced to households in this country, and the old Rambler was 1963's Motor Trend Car of the Year. It was a long time ago. We were surely not thinking about driverless cars back then as well. Also in 1963, we used our best roadway technology of the day to design and construct the Whitman Street Interchange. At this time, high-speed major road projects were all the rage.
 Eight years earlier in 1956, President Eisenhower had helped pass the Federal Highway Act, and our booming post-World War II economy was more than willing to pay for these types of projects all over the country. As the Atlantic Magazine states, they made it easier for commuters to zip to their suburban homes at the end of the workday, encouraging those with the means to abandon the more urban downtown.
 Think of that, Loves Park, Machesley Park directly benefited from the Whitman Street interchange and Second Street. They go on to say that where urban highway construction did occur in urban design terms, it was highly detrimental to the urban fabric, creating physical and psychological rifts that are extremely difficult to bridge and introducing a substantial source of noise and air pollution.
 cities across the country to continue to struggle with this legacy. This has primarily been due to our unrelenting focus on automobile use only. You can add childhood and adult obesity to this list of detriments. Well, those days have ended and thank goodness in this country that's behind us. Kind of like the downtown pedestrian malls back in the 70s. It's time to put the grid system back in and start leveraging this surplus land use near downtowns
 for downtown Rockford's benefit. By removing the Whitman's interchange, you open up this underutilized space for potential residential development and commercial development. It allows residential neighborhoods that have been separated from the riverfront for over 50 years to once again walk, bike, and drive to downtown Riverfront's shores.
 Places like Baltimore, Milwaukee, San Francisco have all torn down freeways and developed parks and walkable areas in their place. When New Haven, Connecticut constructed Route 34 in their downtown in the 1950s, it relocated 881 households and 350 businesses for the highway.
 It's now hoping to bring businesses and residents back to the area. Already the city is erecting a 425,000 square foot lab and office building and Alexian Pharmaceuticals is in the process of building its new headquarters in the middle of this space, which will bring 1,000 more jobs to the area where this highway is being torn out.
 The Atlantic goes on to say that the goal of urban vitality and economic – I'm taking my alarm for whatever reason. It's not working, but I can assure you your time – Okay. – is going to go off. Very good. I'll just wrap it up by saying just ask yourself also –
 In this area where the Whitman Street interchange stands today, if it was simply open space, what would you build there today? Would you create a 21st century urban design that maximizes the land use potential for real estate development, property value growth, and social and recreational development? Or would you simply build an outdated freeway style interchange near your downtown? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Nelson Minter.
 Good evening, Mayor Morrissey, City Council, and the Chiefs. Again, my name is Nelson Minter. I'm a member with the Mu Alpha Lambda Leadership Foundation. It's a 501 nonprofit organization. I'm here once again this year, as I am every year, to invite the Council to attend the scholarship breakfast and oratorical contest.
 It is a time during the King Weekend when we honor four of our high school students. They compete in an oratorical contest for scholarships to attend college. This year the theme is Leadership, Honoring the Obama Legacy. And it will be a time in which we'll ask the students to,
 you know, give us their interpretations of, you know, good sound leadership, how it develops self, and also how it's used to develop the community.
 This year it's going to happen at the Radisson Hotel on January 14th at 9 a.m. I want to thank the Mayor. He always participates and attends as well as Ms. Harvey. She supports. I want to thank the Police Department. They also got a table last time.
 I'm here to invite the city council and the leaders to attend. The students and the community always feel wonderful when the city is involved and attends. The keynote speaker is going to be Dr. Howard Spearman. He's the associate vice president at Rock Valley College. And Diana Cole is going to be doing a special music presentation.
 So I also have a flyer for each of the council members. I got here a little late so I wasn't able to give it to the young lady that hands them all out to everyone. The last two things to remember.
 We have a website, mal1975.com, where you can buy tickets and ads and all those kinds of good things. And then also, please like us on Facebook if you go to MLKRockford.com.
 You can look at the Facebook site and we're trying to build up those likes on that site. You can see photos from past events and the scholars that we've selected this year. We have four scholars this year that we're going to be honoring. And I thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Petitions and communications. Colin Durkee.
 There are three items under petitions and communications. A memorandum from Nora Doyle, the legal department regarding the Rockford Area Economic Development Council, also known as RADEC, their third quarter report for 2016. This report will be referred to planning and development. There's also under item number two a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, the legal director, regarding termination of ordinances.
 I'm sorry, regarding termination ordinances for East State West Side and Seventh Street TIFs. This will be referred to Planning and Development. And number three, a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Public Schools 205 for the support of the Kishwaukee School demolition and site acquisition. This also will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you. Thank you, the matter will be referred.
 Ollivant Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. We have three items also tonight. I have a memorandum from LaFakeri Yvonne, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the sale of four city-owned vacant lots located at 1332 Elm Street, 316 North Hinckley Avenue, 1443 Mulberry Street, and 1436 Mulberry Street.
 Second is a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the amendment to the Mode to Own Program Property List. And the third is a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, our Legal Director, regarding an amendment of the Annexation and Development Agreement between the City of Rockford and Mercy Health System. All three items will be referred to the Codes and Regs Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Manager. To be referred, Alderman Thomas Kelly, did you have one?
 Thank you. Yes, Your Honor. I'm here for a request of service, and I would request that I follow what we've made with me at 903 Bluefield Street and at the corner of Ashland and Holton Avenue. I have nothing but follow-up on that. Thank you. Got it. Thank you. All in back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a bid for sale of property located at 804 Haskell Avenue that we are going to open up now.
 Staff is doing it, for those who can't see it on camera. And it's from Melvin C. Cruz. I believe that's how it's pronounced, in the amount of $48. Only one bid was received for this property. The item was erroneously left off of the November 7th City Council agenda, and this will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you. Thank you. Is that all you had? That's all I had. Any further petitions or communications? No.
 New Committee Reports, Roman Durkee. Your Honor, we have two reports that I'd like a suspension of rules on. Roman numeral 4A, number 1. The committee recommends, oh wait, Roman numeral 4A, number 1 will be held over. Sorry.
 Further confusion? And then the next committee report, the committee recommends approval of the review of the closed session minutes for the Planning and Development Committee, the minutes for sessions on the following dates, which are listed on the addendum. These will be open to the public. I'd like to suspend rules and place that for test. Thank you. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on enrollment in Rule 4A2. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'd like to put up for passage Roman numeral 4A2, the committee report on the closed session minutes. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, Mr. Hayes, do we need a voice vote on that? All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Nice to have you. Thank you.
 Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Enrollment numeral 4B1 and 2, I move to suspend the rules. Motion to suspend. Thank you. There's been a move and a second motion to suspend the rules. Enrollment numeral 4B, items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Then I place those two items up for passage, Your Honor. Matters are up for passage. Is there a discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Item 1, the various air dressers, who are they being sold to? No.
 Or are you just recommending the city fell on the table for bid? That's a plan. Approval. Okay. Thank you. Any further discussion on those items? Hearing none, clerk, please call the, I'm sorry, element auto. That's okay. I have a question. With the ones, the committee recommends approval review of closed session minutes for code and regs.
 Why are these all staggered? What's the purpose for certain days in February, March? What's going on with this? Who wants this? Mr. Hayes? You'll note that they're grouped by years of the different meeting minutes which are being released, the year in which the meeting was held. So there's a 2008 group, a 2010 group, 2012, 2013, 2014. These all are minutes from February.
 Committee matters that involve transactions that have all been completed or closed. Some of them were litigation. Many of them were land acquisition items. So, under Illinois law, if I may, Mr. Hayes, when the basis for the closed session is no longer relevant or it's been resolved, we're under an obligation to release those closed session minutes? Yes.
 I got that right. These are all ones in which their staff has reviewed and recommended that they be released since the litigation has been resolved, that kind of stuff. Any other questions on the items? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. No, 101. Aye. Odo. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 I am number one 10 eyes one no I am number 2 11 nice that's past thank you thank you other back thank your honor under Roman or I'm sorry under yeah what I'm remember all for thank you to my trusty assistant here I am under I I don't see I have items one through 12 that I would act as for suspension rules
 Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Rule 4C, Items 1 through 12. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rule should be suspended. I'm going to place them up for passage. That is up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Mack, Nomura. Aye. Frost. Connell. Thompson, Kelly. Odo. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli.
 Item number six, there's 10 ayes, one no. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 11 ayes. Sorry, Alderman McNeely, do you want to change something? Yes, thank you, Mr. Mayor. Item number six, I want to vote no on that. Thank you very much. So, clerk, what would the roll then be on number six? Nine ayes, two noes. The matter's all passed. Thank you. Officers, reports. Just have a few items to report on this evening. Number one, the...
 I want to thank Alderman Thompson-Kelly and all of the volunteers and staff that prepared the wonderful Thanksgiving dinner last week, which is an annual event, part of our work of the Community Action Agency and our Human Services Department. Did you collect, hopefully, from everyone who pledged? If you didn't, let me know if you need some help. Excellent, excellent. It was another great event, excellent.
 A number of our department heads were also there. We thank them for being present. As a reminder, it's the Thanksgiving holiday this week, so we are closed after Wednesday.
 And Stroll on State, another great Rockford tradition that has developed over the last several years, will be held on Saturday following Thanksgiving. If there's any questions from council members or any of our staff on any of the details of the event, please feel free to follow up with my office. Kimberly Bruce is out the rest of the week today. She was helping with our...
 The police department on the events for Officer Fricke's funeral and visitation this morning, but she's out the rest of the week. Susan or Deb in my office can help if there's any other questions on that. Other than that, I just want to wish everybody a very enjoyable Thanksgiving holiday. It's going to be a great opportunity, hopefully, to share time with family and friends and have a lot of our time.
 Folks who may have left Rockford over the years have a chance to come back and see how many great things are happening in our community. Appreciate the opportunity to work with our council. This is another one of the last that I'll be having. The last Thanksgiving I'll have as mayor, so I know a number of you were filing papers to run again. For everybody who's run again, I wish you the very best of luck. And for our community, it's going to be moving from the national election scene to the local elections.
 heading into the coming year. And I just want to say what a privilege and honor it continues to be to serve with you and to serve our citizens and the community. Happy Thanksgiving. Further officers' reports. I silenced you? You're speechless, right? Although I would just say I was telling Mr. I got a little time left. Don't worry about that. I was telling Mr. Ryan, if you've not seen the movie Show Me a Hero, I bought the DVDs. Have you heard of this movie?
 Watch it with a friend. If you're a council member, you'll know what I mean after you see it. Make sure you've got a loved one near you to hold you if you need it. But it was a very good movie, well done, but it strikes very close to home for some of us in this room. For the officer's reports, Alvin Odo. This morning I went to pay my last respects to Officer Carol Fricke and her family.
 I've known Carol, God, since I've lived here, probably going on 10 years. Her smile was bigger than she was. She had a good heart and a very big heart, and she's going to be very, very much missed by everybody in the community. I know I will miss her. Thank you.
 And I send out my condolences to the Rockford Police Department, to her brothers and sisters that served with her, and to her family. She will be greatly missed in this community. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Alderman Frost. I, too. I've had the chance to know Carol from my days of being a prosecutor 20-some-odd years ago when I was cutting my teeth in traffic court and DUI court, and I had the...
 the privilege of trying many cases in which Officer Fricke was the arresting officer. And she always had a way of, as was stated today many times, she may have been short, but she was fierce. And she always did it with the level of grace and dignity to everyone that she met, and I always admired that about her. I also, you know, as the fourth ward alderman, had the privilege of having Officer Fricke be the community service officer that served the
 the citizens of the Fourth Ward. And back in August, I had a community meeting. And I know I had the chiefs there. It was kind of a meet the chief meeting. But no offense, Chief, the real star of the meeting was Officer Fricke. And she was the card that everyone wanted to take. Everyone wanted Officer Fricke's phone number that day.
 And she will be, she'll be greatly missed. And it was an honor today to be an Alderman of the City of Rockford and attend a funeral that was conducted on behalf of Officer Fricke. I don't know her family, but I'm sure there are many happy hearts in her family, and we wish them all the best. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports, Alderman Beach. I also had the privilege of having Carol as our community service officer of the 10th Ward.
 I know that our neighborhood groups are very sad over her passing, but they were all happy with knowing her. And it's one of these kind of things you pass from a relationship
 as an official capacity to an official to friend to friend and we were really friends and as the scripture says give honor to our honors do give tribute where tribute is due that's exactly what happened today for those who was there a high honor paid to one of our public service blessings to her family
 and appreciate the opportunity to have Ben O. to represent the 10th Ward. Many people have called to express their sympathy. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Unfinished business. Alden Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman Rule 6C, Item 1 and 2, I would ask for suspension of rules. Sir, do I? Do we need a suspension of rules? Just going to read them in.
 Thank you. Do you want me to read in the language or just the items? The language please because this puts us in position to pass those after the sale next week. So back up a little bit, Your Honor. Item 6C, item 1 is an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of approximately $22,080,000 in general obligation bonds.
 sales tax alternative revenue source series 2016a of the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, Illinois, for the purpose of refunding certain previously issued and outstanding general obligation bonds of a city payable from such revenue source, financing the construction and rehabilitation of police stations and repairing the Concourse parking deck in the city, prescribing the details of said bonds
 providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same, and for the collection, segregation, and application of certain sales tax receipts to pay said bonds, and further providing for the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof. And then item 2.
 is an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of approximately $12,540,000 general obligation refunding bonds, Water Works System Alternate Revenue Source Series 2016B of the City of Rockford, Winnebago and Ogle Counties, Illinois for the purpose of refunding certain previously issued general obligation bonds of said city payable from such revenue source.
 prescribing the details of said bonds and providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same and for the collection, segregation, and application of the Water Works System revenues to pay said bonds and further providing for the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance and authorizing the sale of the bonds to the purchaser thereof. And these items are going to lay over. Thank you, Mr. Lew. Thank you, Mr. Lew.
 The number of 7 motions and resolutions element really. Thank you. I'm a new Roman numeral 7 the one and 2 I think stuff the passage runner. Thank you the matters are for passage Roman will 7 the items one to their discussion hearing none for his color all. Thank you. I can't. I know. I'm telling. I don't. Each. I mean. I'm not.
 back I make nearly 5 here Ellie I love a nice better to pass thank you thank you I'm back you want to be generally forgiving you honor I've my iPad took a turn for the worse and now I'm working off a paper I'm not quite used to it that sorry that's right take your time all right I'm under room and also remember 7 see items one through 10
 I would place up for passage. Urban and rural, seven C items, one through ten are up for passage. Is there discussion? Alderman Odo. I have a question. Did anybody else besides Elgin Sweeping Services put in to bid for this?
 I can probably answer that. Go ahead, Alderman. This item, I just want to make sure we're talking about item three under the Roman numeral 7C. Alderman Beck, do you want to take that? Our original contract with this company called for additional re-ups. I think they were one year at a time, right? And so we're just renewing the existing contract. Okay.
 for an additional year. We did not go out to bid at this time. When we did go out to bid, I think it was about three years ago, this company's bid was about $200,000 lower than the next company's.
 If there are more details, I'll have to turn it over to staff. Mr. Vittner, do you want to comment on that anymore? I was just going to reiterate that this bid was, there was a great disparity amongst the bids. Elgin had come in very economical. This renewal doesn't change the price from three years ago. It's the same terms and conditions. So the price stays what the bid price was. Thank you. Further discussion?
 Any further discussion on any of the items? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Beach. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 ayes. Item number 1, 9 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 3, 8 ayes, 3 noes. That is all passed. Thank you.
 New business, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 8A1, under new business, that item will be held over. That will be held. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 8B1, I move to suspend the rules. Second. I think there's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 8B1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended. Matters not known for passage. Thank you.
 Place that item matters up the passages their discussion hearing on clerk. Please call the roll McNamara frost Connell Thompson Kelly Odo Beach Elliot back McNeely Cheerily, I love a nice matter passes. Thank you. Call them back. Thank your honor Roman remote a see I am is one through eight I place up or
 Suspend rules mr. Hayes their second it's been a motion second to spend the rules on Roman numeral eight B I'm sorry eight see items one through eight all those in favor. Please say aye aye Those no eyes have it the road is suspended. I play some upper passage as a for Passage is there discussion over there keep thank your honor I was looking some stuff up when the committee report came but on item c6 I
 The ordinance regarding the collective bargaining agreement for the library. I think after I make these comments, they're going to take away my library card. But when I looked up the hours for the library with respect to the collective bargaining agreement,
 I want the council to be aware that the main library downtown closed on Sunday. The Montague branch closed on Saturday and Sunday. Rockton Center closed on Saturday and Sunday. The East branch Sunday closed. Rock River branch closed on Saturday and Sunday. Lewis Lemon branch closed on Saturday and Sunday. One of the elements of library is to serve the community.
 And many of these branches are in underserved neighborhoods where kids need access to either internet or other things. And if you're open during the school day, that's great, but I don't know what it does for some of the kids that actually use the library. So by passing this collective bargaining agreement, we're basically saying the library is banker's hours. And I'm not so sure that that serves the kids in the community. So I don't know how they get to do this. I work in health care. We work on weekends.
 So I have no sympathy for somebody who has to work on Saturday and Sunday. And there's a lot of factory workers who work on Saturday and Sunday. So why in the world, on the taxpayer's dime, when kids need to be there, do we close the library on Saturday and Sunday? It makes absolutely no sense to me. None. Especially in the underserved neighborhoods when school's not open and they have no access to the library. So either we're serving the kids or we're not. So who are we serving? Are we serving AFSCME?
 and a library board who had a convenience passed this and allows us to go on, or are we gonna actually at one point tell the library, you know, you gotta shape up. So I'm not in support of a collective bargaining agreement at all until this changes. So I will be a no vote. Other discussion, Alderman Thompson-Kelley. I have to, Alderman Durkee, thank you very much for those comments, I do appreciate them. The Lewis Lemon branch is going to be closed permanently.
 there won't be a branch in that quadrant of the city. We are still waiting to find out what type of library services we will have, if any, in the West Rockford.
 My understanding, the director going through the neighborhood watch meetings informed us that they were cutting back on the hours and staffing. So I don't know the reason why. I don't know the dollar amount. Is there any way that we could get a copy of this agreement to understand better what we're voting on? I believe it's in your packet. If I remember correctly. So if I could. You're right. It was.
 Alderman McNeely. You're right, it is, Your Honor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I certainly appreciate my colleagues' concern regarding the hours. However, I don't think that this is the item that we should be concerned about, the hours. We had before us, before from the library regarding hours, and I certainly was one that did not support it. I did not support having hours.
 the library buy, purchase the building out east. I felt that this is what would eventually happen, that we'd have those reduction in the local library hours, as well as the removal of the downtown facility,
 And they've been working at Lewis Lemon to close Lewis Lemon for years. Lewis Lemon should have never been inside a school property. It should have been separate, a separate facility for itself, so people could know where the library is. Most people within that community are not aware that inside Lewis Lemon is a library.
 The library board has neglected certain parts of the city for many years. It's not just with this particular contract. This contract is dealing with the salaries and the income of individuals working there. This issue...
 again, was presented to us years ago. I didn't support it. And I think that the library board should reconsider how they're addressing and providing for those communities that desperately need the service on Saturday and Sundays every day of the week.
 And certainly even the facility out east on East State Street, those hours as well need to change. People from my area and I'm sure throughout the city have complained regarding those hours as well. So I'm in agreement, I just don't think this is the item to address the hours, thank you. So just as a point of information, Mr. Hayes, if you could correct me if I'm wrong,
 I don't believe the contract specifically identifies that there's no weekend hours. Management can set the hours. What the contract, I believe, provides for is that if an employee works on a Sunday, it's automatic overtime. So even if they're only working a 20-hour week, if they work a Sunday, they get time and a half.
 If I remember correctly, I was just trying to find it in there, the provision that was added under this contract actually moves away from that for new employees, but grandfathers and old employees or employees that are already working who would have that benefit. So a new employee, they could schedule on a Sunday and not get the automatic overtime.
 The other point it just is probably one that's obvious. The library still operates under the challenges that we all do with a, over the last several years, declining property tax base and difficulty in terms of managing all of their costs associated with their operations. Mr. Hayes, did I get that right in terms of the reference to the automatic overtime? Yes. Employees employed. Employees employed.
 after January 1st, 2017, would not have the benefit of automatic time and a half on Sunday. Any employee who works overtime over 40 hours in a week would, but the library has a cadre of part-time employees, and so much of their staffing is with part-time employees. And that's the change is that employees won't automatically get time and a half just because it's on a Sunday. And as they build up employees in that part of their pool, it's my understanding that they'll start –
 looking at the cost and the ability to open on Sundays. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak again. Just two points. Number one, I would agree with Ann Thompson Kelly. I guess I may be splitting my own throat being an Eastside alderman, but if there are challenges in funding a library system,
 The philosophical approach is if you see nine guys, 10 guys carrying a log, nine guys on one side and one guy on the other, where do you help? The east side folks, like I said, it may sound bad on the surface, but there's a lot of resource there. We have a different income, a lot of access, very mobile.
 If we're struggling on the west side to get library services to a kid, and the library is challenged with their budget, I have no idea then why we have an east side library. If you've got to close one, again, it sounds bad for me on my side of town, but close the east side one and let's get a library to kids to where folks really could use it.
 The second point is, you know, I guess maybe we're forcing a lot of issues and we're using this to do it and get the library to respond. So I would move that this goes back to committee and let the library representatives respond to some of our questions as this ordinance is generating. So I move that it goes back to committee. Thank you.
 There's been a motion and second to send this back to the Finance Committee. I just want to make a point of information before we take a vote on that motion to go back to committee. Actually, I'd ask a procedural question to Mr. Hayes. What is the ability of the City Council to impact the negotiation in the agreement that was already –
 Obtained between the union and management at the library and what's our official capacity to impact that at this point? Number two it seems some of the questions that are raised really go to the budget as opposed to The collective bargain agreement and I'd ask mr. Hayes to comment on those two points number one we're the labor board looks at us as a joint employer and there's a
 tentative agreements that have been signed and there's certain time pressures on parties to Reduce their tentative agreements to contract within a reasonable amount of time I don't know what that timeline is because I didn't inquire of Attorney Reardon who represented the park district or the library district in these matters and coming up with this whether there's any time pressure or not certainly going back to committee next week calling a matter and bringing it back forward but it's likely not to cause an issue or
 But there are a number of items that I imagine would take effect with the new contract. I'm not sure where they're in and the phasing of the contract and how this might impair their operations. You're correct, Your Honor, that as an employer you have some obligations with regard to this as relates to timing. But I think a layover and additional consideration won't impair that. That said...
 Obviously, the council as a joint employer has a burden of an employer when they have an agent that obviously it's not a direct agent but it's a library's agent negotiate. They've got to affirm those types of negotiations in good faith and those things might be measured if there's a sanction. It might be against the city as opposed to the library. I'm not anticipating one though. I just don't know what that risk is sitting here without conferring with Mr. Reardon.
 You're correct that the contract issues may be different from when they operate. What they have told us in the past about operating on Sundays is this cost issue. This contract resolves that in a going forward basis. But as Alderman Durkee pointed out, they're not open on Saturdays either in a lot of their branches. So, you know, I don't know whether it's a cost issue, staffing issues or what that precludes them from opening more.
 Thank you. Alderman Thomas-Kelly. Alderman Durkee, you're right. They're going to take your library card and your wife's library card. I think the concerns are staffing and hours of operations, and I think the director can address that without us dabbling into their negotiations. Thank you. Thank you. So the motion on the floor is to send the item back to committee. Is there any further discussion on that motion?
 hearing none clerk please call the roll turkey hi this is for the other this is to send just this is simply for roman world um six eight c six to send it back to committee hi mcnamara frost connell hi thompson kelly hi oto beach ellie beck hi mcneely cheerily
 8 ayes 3 noes Thank you the motion carries that matter will be referred back to the finance and personnel committee and I would just ask staff to try to coordinate with library officials to be able to attend the discussion on that matter So the remaining items are still up for passage under Roman numeral 8C Any further discussion on those items? Hearing none clerk please call the roll Durkee Aye McNamara Aye Frost
 Connell Thompson-Kelley Aye Odo No, I'm 2 on that Beach Elliott Beck Aye McNeely No, I'm 3 on the remaining Chiarelli Items 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11 ayes Item number 2, 9 ayes, 2 noes Item number 3, 10 ayes, 1 noe
 Thank you and those of men will pass. Just as a point of information for council members or community members want to reference it in our packet under the contract which is within the agenda item Roman 8 C 6 it's article 13 page 31 of the contract that actually discusses the Sunday hours if you want to take a look at it.
 Is there any further business for the council across the year? I would make a motion that we convene in the closed session to discuss threatened litigation matters. Second. It's been a motion and second to go into closed session for the purposes of discussing threatened litigation matters. Is there any discussion on the matter? Hearing none, please call the roll. Okay. I'm back to me. All right. Right.
 Thompson Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11-9. Thank you. We will recess for the purpose of discussing in closed session threat and litigation matters. Thank you. Thank you.