13 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item this evening. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 7616 Walton Street, SBE Doghouse 1. Is the applicant subject to conditions? Place that up for passage.
 Thank you. Is there any discussion on that item? Alderman Hervey. Just, I was a little surprised. I had several phone calls about this over the weekend. This is the former Ruby Tuesdays. Yes. Okay, that's the question. I thought it was, and I looked it up pretty quickly, but for some reason a lot of people, I shouldn't say a lot, three out of 150,000...
 Yeah, to me that was a little unusual that people is this the Ruby Tuesday. So I think it's good that it's not going to sit empty. But yeah, so this is the Ruby Tuesdays. Yes. Any other discussion on the matter before us? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the vote? Gerke. Aye. Logman. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelling. Hoffman.
 Quinones, Beck, Chiarelli. 12 ayes, 1 no.
 Thank you. So that item passes. The appointments are laid over pursuant to Rule 18. I just want to touch on officers' reports quickly and just mention that for the new aldermen, you should have on your desk this evening a snow and ice binder. For those aldermen who have served prior, if you would like a copy of that snow and ice binder, we can certainly get you one.
 just contact Mark Stockman and we'll make sure you have one. Nothing has substantially changed from the binders we've received in the past. We're also going to be doing some proactive communications with social media and other media outlets to make sure residents know how to contact city staff appropriately to get their issues during the wintertime fixed. It goes over the odd and even ordinance and aldermen.
 Thompson Kelly give me one second. I'll call on you second item. I just want to say is a big. Thank you to All of you who were able to attend this weekend's Straw on state and a special thank you to our police and Public Works Department for the work that they put in In the extra hours that you you and your team put in to help make this event such a wonderful event And the last thing I will say is I second I
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly's thoughts and prayers for Alderman McNeely and her entire family during this difficult time. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Yes, Your Honor. The one thing that I would hope that Public Works would do is the telephone contact numbers have changed, so that sheet can be copied and given to the alderman. I want to make sure I got your right number. We'll make sure you get that. Other officers' reports? Not all at once. None? No.
 All right. Under new business, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant at 7616 Walton Street, SBE Doghouse 1, LLC is the applicant. Place it up for passage. Excellent. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the vote? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Nguyen.
 Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Veach Quinones Shirelli Aye 12 ayes, 1 no Alderman Shirelli, before we leave tonight do you have any other good news for us? Yes, I do have a motion here, honey
 I'll read it word for word following the business portion of the meeting. After new business ordinances, please move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. So I move to go into closed session for pending litigation matters. All right. We have a second. It's real. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Ross. Hervey. Irvin. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Rowe.
 Beach. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. 13-9.