Logan, Timber, Frost, Herbie, Thompson, Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Kinones, Shirely, 11 present. Okay, under motions and resolutions, we'll move to finance and personnel, Alderman Herbie. Oh, I'm sorry, Your Honor. You're fine.
 Yes, I have. We have one item under C, number one. It's a renewal of a contract for liability insurance services with Travelers Indemnity Company of Hartford, Connecticut, in the amount of $306,083. The funding source is the Risk Management Fund. Thank you. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Foss? I just wanted to point out that, Finance Director,
 Haggerty and both legal director Myers did inform me that with regard to the question about versus last year, they actually obtained a $56,000 savings with Travelers. So unlike everyone else's insurance, they were actually able to negotiate a savings. So I wanted to congratulate both of them for working hard on that. Thank you. We are really lucky to have them both.
 Thank you for that comment. Any other discussion on this item? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Burby. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 11 present or 11 eyes. Thank you. So I wasn't able to give officers reports just two quick things. One is a special thank you to Alderman Thompson Kelly. Last week she organized a business district meeting as well as resident meeting on the Auburn Street corridor and was really productive I thought and just really appreciate the time that you put into organizing that. Second, a thank you to the police department for your attendance and participation in that meeting
 The last item I have is I don't I've stepped in and out so I apologize if I if someone already stated this but I think for the service and the time that Mr. Joe Moreno gave to our community. I just wanted to just take a second and say What's been said I guess quite a few times throughout the papers, but someone who's given so much of their time and energy over decades of service to our city and
 I mentioned in the news, but they talk a lot about the amount of money he raised and that every year he was out raising money and trying to make the fireworks bigger and better. But he did that all for all of us and all of our citizens to make these memories with their kids and grandkids and spouses and just want to celebrate him. And I think it's due that we mention that here at council. We certainly can. Thank you. Thank you.
 Now to end a short evening, is there a motion? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to adjourn. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a wonderful evening.