Wilkins as our mayor pro tem for this evening. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed say nay. Motion passes. Thank you. I'd like to call to order the City Council meeting for Monday, November 20th, 2023. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logerman. Here. Tuber. Here. Frost. Here. Terina. Here. Chunky. Here. Here. Wilkins? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Present. Beach? Here. Meeks? Here. Bailey? Here. Bonnie? Here. 12 present. Thank you. All right, our first item of business, we're going to go to our acceptance of journals. Item number one, we have a journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 5th, 2023. Do I have a motion to approve? So moved. Thank you. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed, same sign. The item passes. Item number two, we have a journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on September 11th, 2023. Do I have a motion to approve? Second. All right. Do we have any discussion? All those in favor, state aye. Aye. Any opposed, show same sign. Item passes item number three. We have a journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 18th 2023 do I have a motion to approve? Any discussion all those in favor say aye All opposed show same sign that item passes item number four We have a journal of proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on October 23rd 2023. Do I have a motion to approve? Any discussion All those in favor say aye. Aye. All opposed, so same sign. That item passes. We're gonna move on to petitions and communications. First we're gonna go to Planning and Development Committee. Item number one, we have a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the approval of an application and award acceptance for the Deco Tourism Attractions Grant Program, Davis Park Master Plan Implementation, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And now we'll go on to codes and regulation committee. Alderman Tarina. Alderman Tarina, excuse me. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, we have seven items. Item number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on November 21st, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on November 27th, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on November 21st, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on November 27th, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number three, a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation for a parcel of land located at 2075 Leonard Road, referred to the Quota Regulation Committee. Number four, a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation for a parcel of land located at 1XX Garver Avenue, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number five, a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, for a temporary construction easement with Illinois Department of Transportation, IDOT, for a portion of the city-owned property at 3915 East State Street, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number six. Number six a memorandum from Jeremy Carter traffic and development engineer regarding a request for an honorary street name change on clover Avenue from Michigan Avenue to Ogilvy Road to Constance Lane way and first referred to quarter regulation committee and lastly number seven a memorandum from Kelly notes Engineering operations manager regarding a request to vacate a right-of-way for Hill Street From North Madison Street West to the rocker. We refer to quarter regulation committee. Thank you. I And now we're going to go to our Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you very much. All four of these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders regarding the approval of the 2024-2028 Capital Improvements Program. Number two is a memorandum from Sarah Lace, Housing and Program Manager, regarding a grant agreement with the Illinois Housing Development Authority for the Homeowner Assistance Fund Program. repair in the amount of 1.425 million Three is a member in from Owen Carter W director of program operations for head start regarding the acceptance of the DCEO LIHEAP HHS grant award for additional funds number four is a member in from Robert Willoughby of brownfield Redevelopment specialist regarding the acceptance of an award for recycling partnership residential Curbside cart grant. Thank you Thank you. Before we hear from our public speakers, I'd like to turn the mic over once again to Honorable, I'm sorry, Mick Myers. You're red. We are in possession of a check from Comcast for their quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $358,376. Thank you. Hello. Now we're going to move on to our public speakers. I just want to remind you all that you all have three minutes to make your comments. You have two mics located at the back of city council chambers. Once you do hear an alarm sound indicating that that three minutes is up, we do ask that you bring your comments to a close. That being said, our first public speaker tonight will be Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I am the third chaplain of the 30th U.S., It says, whoever does God's will is my brother and sister and mother. What I want to speak about tonight, forgotten heroes, fighting Germans in Jim Crow. About 2,000 black soldiers stormed Normandy while serving in a still segregated military. It was the most massive amphibious invasion the world has ever seen, with tens of thousands of Allied troops spread out across the air and sea aiming to get a toehold in Normandy for the final assault on Nazi Germany. And while portray of D-Day often showed an all-white army, It also included black soldiers. Roughly 2,000 black soldiers hit the shores of Normandy in various capacity on June 6, 1944, serving in the United States military still segregated by race. They encountered discrimination both in the service and when they came home. But on Normandy, they faced the same dangers as everyone else. The only African American combat unit that day was the 329th Barrage Balloon Battalion, whose job was to set up explosive rig balloons to deter German planes. Waverly Woodson Jr. was a corporal and a medic with the battalion, although Woodson did not live to see the 75th anniversary. He died in 2005. He told the Associated Press in 1994 about how his landing craft hit a mine on the way to Omaha Beach. The tide brought us in, and that's when the 88 hit us. He said of the Germans' 88-millimeter guns, they were murdering us. Of our 26 Navy personnel, there was only one left. They waked the whole town. top of the ship and killed all the crew. Then they started with the mortars, shells. Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland is heading the effort to have Woodson awarded the Medal of Honor for his actions on D-Day. Another member of the unit, William Dabney, described what they encountered on D-Day. In a 2009 Associated Press interview, during the invasion, the fire was fierce on the beach. I was picking up dead bodies, and I was looking at the mines blowing up soldiers and saying, I didn't know if I was going to make it. or not, said that youth who passed away. Linda Herbert detailed the sports of the 329th in her book, Forgotten, the Untold Story of D-Day, Black Heroes at Home and at War. She said the military resisted efforts to desegregate as it went up for World War II. Instead, they kept separate units and separate facilities for blacks and white troops. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is John Tack-Brentley. Good evening to all the persons. I see our mayor is missing in action. And to the public, most of all, to the community that's watching this here video. I want to, first of all, thank the community for coming through with me being able to purchase that church van, which cost $5,000. The community came through with over $4,000. I want to thank all the persons that came through. Also, the Winterberry County Board that's going to be blessing me with $500 in increments. And now I'm in the process of getting ready to get the van painted. And in the process of talking about getting the van painted, I was at one meeting and I mentioned about having the van painted red, having the black paint on the side of my van, but also putting unity in the community on my van, I mean on the community van, and also free black and proud. I took a page out to Hispanics. That month of Hispanics, I'm still very envious and proud of them. That month of Hispanics, they had the flags everywhere. They had them on the front of their vehicles. They had them on their house. We have two national holidays. We have a whole month that we celebrate. But yet our ethnic group is so divided, it's not even funny. When I mentioned that I'm going to have our African-American flag put on the front of my van, this one African that was at the meeting said, I don't think you should do that. I think you should have an American flag. I'm like, excuse me, you're not from America. Yesterday, I was at church. This one pastor, we had seven pastors who said they were going to give me funds. They didn't come through and give me no funds. He said the black pastor was a nymph. I wanted to say something in his sanctuary, Black Panther Party ain't never been a myth. Black Panther Party has been here and now. My former family member was the founder of the Black Panther Party. So that irks me when he said that, and that was a disrespect to the Black Panther Party. And to go on even further, just like they're celebrating Black Friday. A lot of people, I'm going to bring it up every year, for the past 10 years I've been bringing this up. Black Friday started doing slave owners who had small plantations, wasn't able to afford to harvest their crops. They turned to the larger plantation owners, and the larger plantation owners donated their slaves to help harvest the crops of the small plantation owners. And so the small plantation owners was able to give some of their crops to the larger plantation owners. And so that's what Black Friday did. started from. Now they have turned black privacy into a commodity, a form of when they, when our people blood, sweat and tears died harvesting this land, harvesting this land in this community. And last but not least, like my pastor said, Brother John is very unapologetic. He's the only person I know can talk about white folks that still give him money. I ain't never talked about white folks. I talked about what they, I talk about what they doing and what they not doing. Instead of talking about what they doing and what they not doing, we just go about doing what other people, instead of worrying about what somebody doing and not doing, we just step up to the plate and we just do what needs to be done. And once again, I want to thank the community for getting us to this church land. And God bless you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Phyllis Shelby. Is Phyllis here? Yes. All right. We'll see you next week. All right, next we'll move to new committee reports. First, we're going to go to planning and development. Item number one, we have committee recommends approval for the funding agreement with YMCA of Rock River Valley for capital improvements at Riverfront Campus at 200 Y Boulevard and program center at Good Shepherd Church located at 1829 North Rockton Avenue in the amount of $250,000 utilizing ARPA program dollars. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number two, we have committee recommends approval of the funding agreement with the Comprehensive Community Solutions for Capital Improvements at 917 South Main Street in the amount of $200,000 utilizing ARPA program dollars. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, committee recommends approval for the funding agreement with Northwest Community Center for capital improvements at 1325 North Johnson Avenue in the amount of $100,000 utilizing ARPA program dollars. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number 4 committee recommends approval of the 1st amendment to the 2022 home rental rehabilitation program agreement and authority to approve the promissory note and mortgage between the city of Rockford and Zion apartments. LLC. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. You'll have a motion to approve 2nd. Motion 2nd, do we have any discussion? Okay. Think that there is no discussion. Um, yeah. Clerk, will you please follow roll? Aye. Mr. Tuer. Aye. Terina. Abstain on one and three. Aye on the rest. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Abstain on item number two. Aye on the rest. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Ms. Bonnie. Aye. Items 1, 2, and 3, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 4, 12 ayes. All right, thank you. Next we'll go to Coals and Regulations Committee. Alderman Tarina. Amen Authorization of I have two items I remember one authorization to place for sale a portion of city-owned parcel located at 1319 West State Street The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number two 2023 2024 contract between the city of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department For its tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance check director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you We have two items here. Do I have an emotion to approve? I? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, can we show a sign of aye? Aye. Any opposed, show the same sign. Those two items pass. We're going to move on to finance and personnel, and I'll turn it over to Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $37,657,392.52 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on November 13, 2023. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance adopting the City of Rockford's current paid leave policy for all City employees and set forth in the City's Code of Ordinance Employee Handbook. collective of bargaining agreements to which the city is a party and all of the binding legislative actions governing pay leave paid leave adopted by the City Council as the same may be amended from time to time the legal director shovel through the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of the 2024 fee schedule the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends approval of the 2023 property tax abatements for 2023 the debt service levy is 12 million and $2,683 and will be abated in its entirety. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the 2023 proposed property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of fifty five million nine hundred ninety two thousand three hundred ninety two dollars for the levies and the corporate police protection police pension fire protection fire pension state and bridge judgments public library public library maintenance of buildings, Illinois retirement unemployment compensation workers compensation and auditing funds the final city levy amount will be approximately forty eight million two hundred and forty three thousand three hundred ninety two dollars the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number six uh is can you recommend approval of 2024 budget and appropriation ordinance um if i could have uh if someone could make a motion to lay this matter over i'll make that motion thank you so uh your honor i place these five matters before you right we have five items up for grants here um is there any discussion All those in favor of items 1 through 5, you can state aye. Aye. Any opposed, show same sign. Aye. Next we're going to move on to officer reports. Do we have any officer reports tonight? Alderman Rose? Yeah, I just wanted to say thank you to John Groh and the group at RACBB on organizing the Stroll on State, which is happening this weekend on Saturday. and just encourage the city to attend and go out to this. This has been something that has really put Rockford on the map, especially for tourism, but also really just creating an environment that is friendly and to all holidays around this time of year and I just think it's something that so many other communities don't have access to that that it makes Rockford a little more special so a special call out to him and his team for organizing and getting volunteers as well. Thank you. Any other officer reports? Alderman Prenti? Thank you. I just wanted to congratulate the Rockford alumni chapter of Delta Sigma Theta on 39 years of service here in the Rockford community. This is a small but mighty chapter and I'm proud to be a part of it. They have given thousands of dollars, we have given thousands of dollars in scholarships, and we have volunteered thousands of hours within our service area. So again, congratulations to the Rockford Alumni Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Incorporated. I'm sorry, if there is anyone out there who does not have Thanksgiving plans, doesn't want to cook, or just wants some good free food, Edge Community Fellowship, which is located at 2000 Kilburn Avenue, they are hosting a Thanksgiving dinner this Thursday. Again, it's free and all are welcome. And that will be taking place from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. All right. We do have seven appointments that have been laid over. They won't come up for passage until December 6th. So we're going to go ahead and move on to motions and resolutions. There's nothing under planning and development. So we'll go right into codes and regulations committee. Alderman Serena. Thank you, Your Honor. 2024 city council and committee calendar. Thank you. Do I have a motion to approve? So moved. Second. I'm sorry. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed, show same sign. Aye. All right. Next, we'll move on to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of a non-competitive contract for traffic signal electronic equipment to Mobotrex Mobility of Davenport, Iowa, based on unit pricing. The estimated annual value is $300,000. The contract duration is through December 31, 2024. The funding source is the Traffic Division Operating Budget. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for Rock Salt and Bulk Road Salt to Morton Salt of Chicago based on unit pricing in the estimated amount of $1,766,664. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the street division operating budget. Number three, committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Office of the Attorney General stated only organized retail crime grant in the amount of $104,000. The grant does not require a cost match, and the grant term is from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024. The purpose of the grant is to enhance the police department's technology and capabilities by purchasing a data-integrated software system to assist in investigating organized retail crime. The grant will be used for $100,000 for software and a one-year contract and $4,000 for an appliance server. I place these three matters before you. Do I have a motion to approve? So moved. Second. Any discussion? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Madam Chair. Is this one program for one computer or is it on many computers that are going to be installed? I'd be interested in knowing that question. Is the one-year contract a service contract for one year? What happens after that? I'm not 100% positive on this. The chief is out on vacation, but we'll get back to you. That's fine. Okay. Well, when you look at $100,000, you could have installed it on one computer. No, I don't believe it will be one computer. I don't think that's true. It's probably on 20 or 30 of them, you know. It may be on every squad car. I don't know. But thank you, sir. Yep. Do we have any other questions or comments? All those in favor, say aye. Any opposed, show same sign. Those all require roll call votes. I'm sorry. Clerk, will you please call the rolls? Logeman. Toomer. Aye. Ross. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 12 ayes. Rupp. Next we'll move on to new business ordinances. First we'll go to planning and development. Item number one, an ordinance approving the funding agreement with YMCA of Rock River Valley for capital improvements at Riverfront Campus at 200 Y Boulevard and Program Center at Good Shepherd Church located at 1829 North Rockton Avenue in the amount of $250 utilizing ARPA program dollars. Number two is an ordinance approving the funding agreement with Comprehensive Community Solutions for capital improvements at 917 South Main Street in the amount of $200,000 utilizing ARPA program dollars. item number three is an ordinance approving the funding agreement with northwest community center for capital improvements at 1325 north johnson avenue in the amount of 100 000 utilizing our program dollars in item number four we have an ordinance approving the first amendment to the 2022 home rental rehabilitation program agreement and authority to approve promissory note and mortgage between the city of rockford and zion apartments llc you have a motion to approve So moved. Second. Any discussion? Do I have to do a roll call with this? All right. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Abstain on one and three. Aye on the rest. Runcie. Aye. Wilkins. Abstain on two. Aye on the rest. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Aye. Bonnie. Aye. Warren. items one through three eleven nine is one of stain item four twelve ice thank you next we'll go on to closing regulations alderman serena thank you your honor Item number one an ordinance approving the authorization to place for sale a portion of city-owned parcel located at 1319 West State Street and item number two an ordinance approving the 2023-2024 contract between the city of Rockford and the Winnebago County Health Department For tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance checks. Thank you. I have a motion to approve these three items second any discussion Clerk, will you please call the roll? Bogeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Aye. Svobod. Aye. Thank you. Those items pass. And last, we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you. number one is an ordinance adopting the city of rockford's current paid leave policy for all city employees as set forth in various documents the same may be amended from time to time number two is an ordinance approving the 2024 fee schedule Number three is an ordinance of room the 2023 property tax abatements for point 23 debt service levy is 12 million $2,683 and will be abated in its entirety Number four is an ordinance of room the 2023 proposed property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of 55,000 LEVIES IN THE CORPORATE, POLICE PROTECTION, POLICE PENSION, FIRE PROTECTION, FIRE PENSION, STREET AND BRIDGE, JUDGMENTS, PUBLIC LIBRARY, PUBLIC LIBRARY MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS, ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT, UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION, WORKERS COMPENSATION, AND AUDITING FUNDS. THE FINAL CITY LEVY AMOUNT WILL BE APPROXIMATELY $48,243,392. I PLACE THESE FOUR METERS BEFORE YOU. DO I HAVE A MOTION TO ACCEPT? SECOND. ANY DISCUSSION? All the woman meets. I just have a quick question. For item number two, the fee schedule, is it common for the 3% increase for the fee schedule on an annual basis? Yes. Every year. Thank you. Yes, we we had we adopted the fee schedule in order to make it simpler for council to Regularly review those fees prior to the implementation of the fee schedule We would sometimes go five or ten years without adjusting anything and then sort of shock the the businesses in the community with large increases so we we have a Found that small incremental increases like a 3% annual help not only keep it in line with our costs But are easier for our businesses to and residents to take year after year Any other comments or questions clerk? Will you please call the roll? Toomer Ross Serena run T Wilkins. Hi Hoffman. Hi Rose. Hi Beach. Oh Meeks, R, Bailey, Bonnie. Aye. So advised. Thank you. Do I have a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed, show same sign. This meeting is adjourned.