Yeah. Awesome. Hello? Hello? Hello there. Beach? Kenona? Stanley? McNeely? Torelli? Torelli?
 Excellent. So we have a quorum. We have one item up before you this evening that's an appointment of Hot Cues as Director of Information Technology with an annual salary of $116,979. I'm asking for suspension of Rule 18. Is there a motion to suspend Rule 18? We have a motion. We have a second.
 As we open out for discussion, obviously, we are certainly excited to have Hughes joining our team. But obviously, if we have someone joining our team as an IT director, we know we're losing someone, and we're losing a remarkable IT director in Glenn Trommels. He's just done an unbelievable job, long before I became an alderman and now as mayor, who
 He's always done a great job, but most recently I've seen him really lead a countywide effort on a shared records management system
 Updating some of the largest updates to our 911 system. It just has done really a remarkable job of protecting and enhancing our system to our staff. To serve our citizens better. So a big thank you to Glenn for the work that he's done. So we have a. Motion and we have a, you know, this is a department head does not require a suspension of the rule. I apologize. I should have caught that earlier.
 Okay, now we don't need to do the suspension. We just say, do those four minutes. Is there a motion to approve the appointment? The second, I need discussion. No other discussion. Please call the roll. Hi.
 TUBER FROST GERBY IRBY IRBENS THOMPSON-KELLEY HOFFMAN AYE BEACH AYE KENOTA AYE MANLY AYE MCNEILLY
 Excellent thank you that point that you look forward uh does anyone have an officer's report Alderman Durkee I can tell the um just my usual
 The month and concern over. You know, some of the actions that I've government is taking with respect to small businesses and businesses in general with this cold. Of course, I'm a physician and I understand. Fully implications of the virus implications of the disease, but.
 What I'm struggling with as we approach it is the lack of at least candor and data regarding exactly who is getting this disease and how we better mitigate it. Actually, there has to be a better way to allow people to undergo their normal discourse as much as they can
 without disrupting their lives. I think it would behoove even our city council, as well as others in leadership, to actually read the unintended health consequences of a lockdown, and they're serious. Among them really is depression, which is skyrocketing, among other issues. You can read them for yourself.
 And so there needs to be something more creative than just basically, we're just going to shut down a certain business. I still remain fascinated how COVID stops targeting and other businesses to get that. I'm hearing more and more from businesses. I mean, one restaurant owner quickly
 has told me that since COVID, this particular restaurant has actually lost a million dollars. It's a million dollars. I mean, that kind of economic loss of economic activity is not sustainable. And these are our small business. This is a small business, not a corporate entity company.
 such as a Target and Walmart. I'm not picking on them, but, you know, they have a substantial reserve. But these are our folks, and they employ, you know, our folks just like, you know, other businesses. But so a million dollars. And then, you know, I understand that.
 You know, we are happy that the government is giving us, what is it, $900,000 to distribute to these businesses where they would get $7,500. $7,500 weighed against a $1 million business loss? That's almost insulting. When the government takes it away and then gives you something back, that's almost meaningless. And to boot...
 That's not even the government. Government doesn't produce anything. It's not their money. It's our money. So what they're going to do is they're going to give you $7,500, and then they're going to tax your eyeballs out to pay that money back with interest. In fact, some of our businesses, when they are relaying that, they're getting notices in the mail now that the Paycheck Protection Program, now the IRS is sending them notices that they're going to pay income tax on that money.
 Only the government does stuff like that, shuts you down, and then makes these meaningless gestures to some degree. So I think, I know it's not in our purview, I know this comes from our governor, but there's just an element of tone deafness that you see.
 We have one local business with our health department that has put up a patio and has been waiting. Somebody came by and took pictures and been waiting to open. Each day they're closed, they lose money. So somebody in the health department has no clue that somebody's not working, somebody's not bringing money home with paycheck, and the business is losing money because I don't know what they're doing.
 And it just seems, you know, like I said before, the health department seems to be somewhat arbitrary in how they're enforcing things and allowing these businesses to navigate this and be open. Some patio enclosures are good, some are bad. But what are the criteria that they use?
 And before anybody tells me to follow the science and how bad all this is, right now the science is speculative. There is no definitive science that governs this disease. It's too new, it's too much in flux. We do have an idea who is susceptible to this. But anybody who tells you follow the science, that's like drawing a gun and saying you've lost the argument. That doesn't apply.
 So as we look at ourselves as a community, I don't know what it takes to be creative and work with our state legislatures to take this up with Springfield, to try to work with something creative, either identify...
 these by using whatever current data we have, which may shift. Again, it's speculative. Who gets this virus? Who succumbs to it? And how we sequester them. I find it fascinating. It would be interesting if 10 high school kids would go to a restaurant. Is that bad? But, you know, some of the private schools are open.
 So it's okay for them to gather in a private school, but I bet you if they showed up at a restaurant, that would be bad. That's what I mean about the arbitrary nature of what's happening. And it's not sustainable. We're going through the second phase of this. And I'm afraid that we already have lost businesses and they're not coming back.
 And so this is, you know, this is kind of a sad deal. I don't know what the answer is. I'm just hoping somebody a lot smarter than me can figure out how to get these businesses open and allow them to function safely without these draconian efforts. And I guess I just appeal to our governor to be, you know, to try to figure that out. So thank you, Your Honor, for allowing me to alleviate it.
 No problem. I'll get to everyone. I'll just throw it around the corner. I'll just add to the frustration Alderman Durkee is our state legislature.
 Although they were so amped to go into session last time, they failed to even approve the most basic rules to allow them to do what we're doing today, which is hold session virtually. They can't even, when we say we need to get some help from the state legislator, they can't even vote on anything. And you go to the feds and they're so messed up, they can't even agree on anything. So, what do you mean by that?
 On the timber, I just just mentioned along 30s route is businesses are continuing to reach out to me and are new on this and they're just getting humbled. So hopefully we can get get going soon. Thanks.
 All of my thoughts, I would just like to wish everyone a happy Thanksgiving and, uh. And be safe and however you celebrate with your family or friends. All of them.
 I know some weeks ago, Alderman Durkee asked that the director of our health department, Dr. Sandra Martel, if she could, I guess it would be a Zoom, however we're meeting, to address some of these questions by council members. In addition to restaurants, we have an end and.
 Bars. We've got people such as hair salons, nail salons, people who provide more personal services that are not considered essential. People can't live without.
 I understand there's a moratorium on evictions right now, but I'm hearing from people, and there was, I think, an article, I don't know if it was in the newspaper or on Pocket, that landlords are thinking a very creative way to evict them if they can't pay the rent, which is basically, oh, I'm not renewing your lease. I'm not evicting you. I'm just not renewing your lease.
 Um, or bringing them up on, on behavior issues. I'm not paying you for non non payment or evicting you for non payment of rent, but you know, your dog, you didn't clean up behind your dog or something. So there are in fact, people who are being put out of their homes. I've directed them, uh, to, to seek assistance, but, uh,
 I would second the request that Dr. Martell come to answer some of these questions. I can't tell people how we're determining the positivity rate and whether –
 there might be some better way to do this. I get a little nervous when we talk about sequestering people if we identify who's most susceptible to the disease, being over 60. Well, I mean, I sequestered myself. I'm a walking, talking risk factor poster board. But I think most people are, who are in that category, are going to keep themselves in. What scares me is we just...
 lost a, I think a 38 year old teacher in Rockford, which is in a school that is much smaller than normal schools and has a
 minuscule class size compared to the regular classes. I don't know how to figure who's at risk and I think those are legitimate questions that I would like to to be able to pose. Is there any kind of protocol that you could look at your child for example? That's another one that I get you know they're saying that these are parents saying they say the kids don't get it but how do you know if your kid is at risk?
 So just lots of things, but I would like to renew the request that Dr. Martel come to a meeting with us. I was hoping we could do that on the 30th, but I see we canceled the meeting, and I think that makes quite a bit of sense given everything that's going on. And by the way, in case people have not heard, District 205 students will not be returning to
 in-classroom instruction after the Thanksgiving holiday. So as of the 30th, they're going back to remote. The second thing very quickly that I'm going to ask is that the city convene with the school district because we've got kids who are going to lose the equivalent of an entire year. In a month or two, they're going to lose the equivalent of an entire year of school. I mean...
 Home-based instruction or remote instruction for a large swath of our students is not instruction at all. That's not the district's fault. To me, it's just an uncomfortable and unfortunate fact. If these were the kids who were most likely to fall behind, now they're really going to be.
 behind so what can we do should we be looking at a year-round school for next year a mandatory summer school an extended school day because it's our elementary kids who are most at risk for the next two years um i'm not hearing those disrupt discussions so i'm hoping and i'm not an educator but i'm hoping that we can have those discussions with some of our educators with
 with some of our services in town because we've got to come up with a plan for these kids and we need to do it now so we know what we're marching into. So thank you. But I do want Dr. Martell to visit us too. Thank you. Yeah, we will submit that request again for Dr. Martell. And also just a heads up, Alderman Hervey, bringing up a good point about the children losing their ears.
 I'm working with Jason Dean from the park district and he should bring that from alignment rocker to see what we can do creatively to help.
 our young people not lose the entire summer and i know the school district's thinking of new alternative ways as well and i think one of the ideas you mentioned uh author cup may end up being the idea that comes forward so uh it's definitely a major concern alderman urban see your honor thank you
 Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kellen? Yes, Your Honor. I wanted to say thank you to the Salvation Army, Major Mark, and our Human Service Department for providing dinners to the seniors a couple weeks ago. Really appreciate them doing that.
 And I also want to say thank you, Tim and Kyle must have missed a page in their presentation because they didn't mention anything about School Street or Auburn Street. But I want to tell everyone have a very, very happy Thanksgiving. Thank you, Alderman Hoffman. Nothing this evening, Mayor. Thank you. All except to say to everybody, I hope you enjoyed your Thanksgiving, however you may be dealing with it. Thank you.
 Yeah, just real quick, Alderman Durkee, since Alderman Durkee brought it up, I found an article the other day, you know, talking about this idea around depression and social
 social distancing. And just because you socially distance doesn't mean you have to be emotional distance from people. So, um, if, if you have elderly, uh, family members, if you have a family that are across the country, you know, make sure you're getting in contact with them on a pretty regular basis while people socially distance. Um, you do not have to be a hermit, uh, in, in this kind of, uh, technology world that we live in, get on Facebook, get on, uh,
 you know, send a text, give a phone call, talk to people, because quite honestly, we don't need that right now. And just wanted to share that with you. It was a really nice article that talked about not emotionally distancing ourselves from other people. Thank you. Alderman Beach. I certainly do.
 Thank you, Dr. Durkee, for giving us a professional from a physician's point of view and bringing us education. That's very important. I guess from my point of view, it's hard for me to understand when we take a business and tell them to shut down, you cannot open.
 all the bills keep going on. We don't say, well, you don't have to pay your gas bill. You don't have to pay your taxes. I mean, you have to pay them at some other time. But as far as on the due date, I know there's been some assistance. We've talked about that. But by and large, small businesses cannot handle it, cannot make it.
 and uh i don't want to belabor the issue uh but i do want to say then and follow up um happy thanksgiving to so many uh and enjoy your time with family i want to say happy thanksgiving everybody and that's all i have alderman handling alderman mcneely
 Alderman McNeely Alderman Chiarelli Yeah thank you and I just want to say Happy Thanksgiving everyone be safe and stay healthy Thank you I hope all of you enjoy a safe and healthy Thanksgiving Day holiday Is there a motion to adjourn I move to adjourn We have a motion we have a second anyone who has not thought that We have a motion to adjourn We have a motion to adjourn
 Bozeman Coonberg Bras Aye Kirby Ervin Contrary Kelly Aye Hoffman Aye Rose Aye Beach Quinones Hanley McNeely Shirely Aye Kite Kite Kite Kite Kite Kite Kite
 14 I, or I'm sorry, 13 I. Excellent. Hope you have a wonderful evening. Everybody have a good Thanksgiving.