Make sure that we are protected in this city in the way it should be done. We pray that you be with our fire and police departments, Lord, as they protect us daily. And, Lord, be with them as they do their job. Be with all the first responders that take care of us day to day. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman, Toomberg, Frost, Urbans, Samson Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, Shirelli.
 10 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings? Excellent. Is there any discussion on the approval of the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on November 6, 2017? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Item passes.
 We have two proclamations this evening. The first is Small Business Saturday, and I believe Lauren Davis and several representatives of local businesses are here. Hey, Lauren. How are you? Good to see you. We'll keep coming this way. How are you? Good to see you.
 I think your group keeps growing every single year, which is fantastic. So whereas there are many registered small businesses in the city of Rockford that provide employment for residents and generate tax revenue for our community, and whereas according to the U.S. Small Business Administration, small businesses are responsible for over 60 percent of new jobs created over the past 20 years.
 And whereas buying from small local businesses is an investment in our community with nearly 70% of every dollar spent going back to our local economy, and whereas small business owners and employees take special pride in their products, our key partners in helping our community remain viable and regularly support local charities and other organizations.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, be hereby proclaim November 25, 2017 to be Small Business Saturday. Would you like to share a few words? Yes, please.
 Thank you so much. It's truly an honor to know that our local government acknowledges the importance of supporting local businesses that make up our community. And as we continue through the biggest consumer spending season, we encourage everyone to not only buy local, but also eat local, support local services, shop local, support local art, support local everything.
 I want to also acknowledge the businesses and the organizations who are standing here in collaboration for tonight's proclamation. It's always been Winnebago by Local's mission to collaborate because the more we work together, the more we all succeed. I can try to do this by heart, but I've got my notes just in case. Yeah. Okay.
 Well, let me just try. We have Sue from Michaels and Tai Chi next to me, Nikki and Kathy from the Rockford City Market, Laurel from the Stateline Chamber, John from Poplenka, Caitlin from the Rockford Chamber of Commerce, Kate from Lusette Salon and Spa, Robert from PC Tech 2, and Jay from Takeouts. So thank you so much for all of you guys standing with us here tonight, and thank you to you and everyone here. This is amazing.
 Congratulations. Lauren Davis is from Culture Shock. Next up, we have a proclamation for Clutch Cargo Month, and will representatives and band members please come forward. How are you? Good. Thank you, Your Honor. Appreciate it. Thanks for being here. Thank you. Good to see you again. Thanks for being here. Hi. Thanks for being here.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being here. I will give you this and those copies. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Whereas Clutch Cargo, the band, was founded in 1990 with three original band members, Terry Carter, John Zwanzig, and Terry Giardini. And whereas Kurt Bausik, Kevin Peterson, Jim LeCarrie, Joe LeCarrie, Ryan LeCarrie, Mike Mastroianni, Pat Peterson, and Don Baybourne all joined the band in 1999. So they're the newbies.
 And whereas over the years Clutch Cargo has played hundreds of times for festivals, fundraisers, bar entertainment, weddings, private parties, and reunions. And whereas eight times Clutch Cargo was selected as Best of Rockford winner for On the Waterfront Festival. And whereas Clutch Cargo is a five-time Rockford Area Musicians Industry winner. Thank you.
 and whereas inducted into the Ramey Hall of Fame in 2007. And whereas in 2008, Greg Hunt and Tom Parkinson joined the band with Jared Zmudo covered keyboard and vocals until Mike Mastroianni returned to the group last year. And whereas a true friend of the Rockford Area Entertainment Venue's Clutch Cargo will be retiring at the end of this year.
 Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of November 2017 to be Clutch Cargo Month. Would you like to share a few words? Oh, absolutely. First, Your Honor, thank you very much. And city council members, thank you for recognizing us. 27 years ago, if you'd have said you'd be up for getting a proclamation, I would have laughed. 27 years later, you can see God has a sense of humor.
 So this is wonderful, and we cannot thank the Rockford community enough for supporting us through all this time, the 27 years, that we are proud to be from Rockford, Illinois. And the thing about Rockford, Illinois also is one of the top 50 cities that has live music, and we are proud just to be a part of that.
 and we just want to continue that. All those other bands out there that put forth the effort every Friday, Saturday, and whatever the holiday and weekend is, and God bless them because they're out there doing the same thing we've been doing, and we hope they stick around for just as long, if not longer. So thank you, everyone. This has been a wonderful journey for us, but you can see by the arctic blonde on our heads that it's probably about time.
 So thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. You bet. Thank you. Next up, under petitions and communications, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. We have seven items this evening. First is a memorandum from Matthew Flores, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed ordinance to adopt a building and sanitation code hearing fine reduction policy.
 The second is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on November 21st, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs meeting on November 27th, 2017. Third is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for that meeting to be held on November 21st, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs meeting on November 27th, 2017.
 Alderman, will you push up the mic? Thank you. Thank you Member the fourth is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson land transaction officer regarding the proposed sale of 1329th Street the fifth is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson land transaction officer regarding the proposed 1246 Corbin Street and
 The sixth is a memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 2816 Rice Avenue. And the seventh is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding a resolution for the placement of home rule on the ballot for March 20, 2018. All seven of these memorandums, Your Honor, will be referred to codes and regs.
 Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Shkreli and Alderman Beck for financing personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. We do have a bid for the sale of property at 4608 Auburn Street, and we're going to open that now. And it is from David Warfill for the amount of $700. And so this item will be referred to financing personnel. We have more than one bid. I'm sorry. We're bidding more. Okay.
 And this one is from Sergio Poli, and it is for $613. So both of these will be referred to our Finance and Personnel Committee, right? Is that it? Okay. And I also have a memorandum from George Davis, Executive Director, regarding an application for federal grant funds for Head Start and Early Head Start for 2018-2019 budget year for the Human Services Department Head Start Division. That will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. Thank you.
 Next up we have our public speakers. I'll just remind our public speakers that each speaker will be given three minutes to speak. Thank you. Mr. Meyer. Acknowledging receipt of the Rockford Police Pension Fund Levy Request, 28 June. Thank you for that communication. Back to our public speakers. Each public speaker will have three minutes to provide their public comment. And our first public speaker is Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Romans, the 12th chapter, the second verse, it says, Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. What I want to speak about tonight, the danger of policemen working overtime.
 Police overtime and long hours of off duty work come with alarming consequence. Fatigue is bad for any work environment, but for police the stakes are much higher. Officers have to respond to late night calls, make split second decisions, and de-escalate tense situations, sometimes in the middle of a 16 hour shift. A growing body of research links long hours and also fatigue
 of public safety issues. Fatigue may do more than affect the way officers perform routine tasks such as maneuvering a patrol car. Recent evidence suggests it can influence their ability to exercise good judgment. Yet many law enforcement agencies maintain weak policies governing just how long officers can work, and some fail to track extra hours at all. If you
 put a lot of police officers into a very sensitive situation, a lot could go wrong. Fatigue affects our most prominent and routine situations that otherwise aren't stressful for police. According to Lewis James of Washington State University, who studied sleep deprivation and
 From an officer safety perspective, they are serious consequence of fatigue. One such result might be impaired performance while driving late at night. But research in Washington state also found that inadequate sleep may heighten pre-existent implicit bias. They monitor the sleep of four people.
 80 police officers and presented them with a series of tests. Officers who slept less were significantly more likely to associate African Americans with weapons. A study of the Phoenix Police Department published in Police Quarter compared officers who worked in 10 hour shifts with those who worked more than 13 hours. Longer shifts didn't result in fewer arrests or fewer interrogations, nor did they
 hinder pass rates on shootings. But the number of complaints made against those in the 13-hour group was significantly higher than for the 10-hour shift officers, working only one additional hour of overtime per week. Increase the chances that officers would be involved in a use of force incident the following week by 2.7 percent. And increase the odds of ethics violations by 3.1 percent. These issues certainly are unique to police.
 body of research has noticed that safety risks and health problems are worsened by long working hours for truck drivers, pilots, and military people, and people who work any place overtime. And if you study about these police, the average one of them worked overtime and they didn't have enough sleep. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Nancy Graham Miller. Thank you for this opportunity.
 First, I'm going to have to ask for your help because I'm really confused about something. I thought the Rockford police, some of them, were going to begin living in specific neighborhoods in order to establish trust and relationships and open the lines of communication.
 Police stations were built in various areas to decentralize and to build relationships. Now I find out on the corner of Sunset and Blaisdell is an intimidating, nuisance abatement tank that's very frightening and oppressive. Children walk by it every day on the way to Lewis Lemon Elementary School. It's barrier building to the adults in that neighborhood as well. How does parking this scary monstrosity in a residential neighborhood help to build trust and relationships?
 As a suggestion, let's sell it and use the money toward cameras for all Rockford police cars. Body cams would be a great idea, too. A few years ago, we had an incident which split our city apart. Body cams would have been extremely helpful, as they would have been in our latest tragedy. The lives of two more respected people have been lost.
 The pain to their families and to our community is absolutely unbearable. At this point, Rockford has a solid foundation to begin to heal the wounds. Our city has an excellent police chief who has had an immediate positive impact on both the police force and our city. We have a mayor who values diversity and working with others.
 We have family members of both men who have reached out to each other in an attempt to heal the racial divide. At least two churches also reached out. Dealing with racism is an enormous challenge. Currently, Rockford is known as a very racist city. It's also rated as the fifth most violent city in the United States. There's a strong possibility there's a connection between the two.
 We have racism in some of our schools, businesses, and media. Many of us also have racist views within ourselves. Now we look at the deaths of two good men, Jamie and Eddie. An independent federal investigation, if we might have one, may or may not be able to figure out what really happened. If we take a step back, however, and look at the situation, two good people died for nothing.
 That's unspeakably painful and completely unacceptable.
 As a community, let's honor them properly. Let's use the example some of their family members and churches have given to us and no longer turn a blind eye or tolerate racism, beginning with looking within ourselves and then at our schools, businesses, and media. Eddie and Jamie deserve the best we can give to them. Let's work together to heal the racial divide and to make Rockford a welcoming place to all in their honor. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tye Grantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the women and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 29, verse 25 says, fear of peoples can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form that can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating.
 Why fear people who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word. Donald Trump is just the latest Republican to stroke racial division. He is not reshaping the party, but rather carrying on a long tradition.
 First, Donald Trump threatened to build a massive wall on the U.S. border with Mexico. Americans are united on one thing, seeing President Trump as a wannabe dictator. Two-thirds of America thinks Donald Trump has done more to divide the country than to unite it, according to the new polls on Sunday.
 More tears, more questions at a funeral where the Rockford man killed during a traffic stop. On Monday, we went to City Hall meeting and asked for a federal investigation. Pastor Oposler Brown called for a federal government investigation into the death of Eddie Lee Patterson and Officer Jamie Cox the night of the accident. We was over 50 strong. My question is, where was all the organizations and churches that claimed to be out there for the people?
 My question to Apostle Brown, why would you want a federal bureau of investigation? You do not know who is the current director of the federal bureau of investigation? This is not the same when we had President Obama in office. We have a wannabe dictator, Donald Trump, in office full of white supremacists in this cabinet. We was at Kingdom Authority Church for a town hall meeting where members of the congregation was allowed to speak
 I stated that despite the talk about pardoning with poor and minorities in the community of Rockford But they are given no voice at the town hall meeting at Rockford Kingdom Authority Church With Rockford mayor and the chief of police kind of my question. I stated that we do not have
 They do not come to our meetings and the only time we see them is during election time or a shooting or shots fired 9-1-1. Instead of going against what I said, what about asking me what meetings that they have not attended? How can we start to have an open dialogue that can lead to improving understandings between diverse parties in our community?
 I question why there is no video of what happened. How can you have a camera in the sky over our neighborhood and you have cameras where you can hear gunshots, but the police don't have a camera on their car and the police don't have a counter on their body? You can look at the surrounding police department, Winnebago Sheriff, Beverly Deer, Freeport and a few others, they have dash counters. Why do we love to wait until some major incident happens before the powers that be take up any type of action?
 I've been talking about dash cameras for the past five years after the Barmore case. What I was glad to hear was that the community organizations, churches, business and others want to help raise funds so that our police officers can have a dash camera and a body camera. Our next concern, what would the task force protect us from? Why am I always shorting everybody else's line? Thank you, John. I'll finish it up next week. Thank you, Mr. Branton.
 Our next public speaker will be the Reverend Derek Shelby. Matthew 26, verse 14, 15, 16. Then one of the twelve called Judas Iscariot went unto the chief priests and said unto them, What will you give me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver. And from that time he sought to betray him. He sold his soul, Judas sold his soul to the devil for thirty pieces of silver.
 I was in bed the other night and the Lord woke me up and said, redo those numbers. Because I've been saying they stole $100 million out the West Side. And I was 20 million times 50. And I said, well, 5 million is 100. I was wrong. A 50 times $20 million, and that's the low end tax money they took out the West Side, is a billion dollars. They done took a billion dollars, y'all, out the West Side of Rock for the last 50 years. I might add $20 million every year, the first of January. And they didn't put a penny back.
 There's some white men in Rockford that sold their souls to the devil for 30 pieces of silver. 30 pieces of silver. The Lord don't care nothing about you being rich. When you rape and viciously murder a whole group on the whole side of town, 30% of the people on the west side are white. You go into hell. None of those men will ever be able to meet Jesus. I think what we had in Rockford was a de facto containment policy against black people.
 economically, socially, and politically. You're gonna die one day. You're gonna die one day. All them filthy white men that's gonna rape these black kids and poor white kids on the west side. A billion dollars! And sold their souls to the devil. They sold their souls. Some of their bank accounts are obscene. And the Lord don't care nothing about you getting rich. But when you rape and murder and pillage, like Adolf Hitler did,
 You're going to hell. Adolph Hitler sold his soul to the devil, y'all. That man went down there in that church and murdered all those people. And by the way, it's amazing how many white men are running around the country in these mass murders. Vegas, he was a white man. Texas, he was a white man. This guy just murdered some people up in California. Killed his wife, buried her up under the house. Went next door. This was last week, y'all. Murdered his wife.
 neighbors, his wife and husband, then went down to their school and murdered two people, a white man. Now, all over America, white men are doing this. Constantly. Constantly. And they, in Rockford, they took a billion dollars out the west side of Rockford to rape a few black men. Thank you, Lord Jesus. Next public speaker we have this evening is Mr. Rudy Valdez.
 Today I'm going to actually be talking about a cartoon. The cartoon, for those that haven't seen it, it came on Sunday and has the Frankenstein's Monster laying down. It's a Bruce Quast comic and it says the time has come to revive this creature on the shirt of the Frankenstein's Monster as home rule. And Igor says, how will we keep him under control?
 And the reason I bring this up is this is actually a pretty good depiction of what's going on. A lot of people make the assumption that Frankenstein's monster in this case is truly a monster and people don't understand it and they can go wild and destroy things, when in fact,
 Well, let me answer the question. How will we keep them under control the same way I guess 210 other communities in Illinois have kept it under control, you know, and been prosperous? The other thing is when you look at it from Frankenstein's monster, looks can be deceiving because for those that are older or those that have watched a lot of the reruns with Herman Munster, the Munster Show,
 Herman Munster, that's him, he was a pretty nice person, always wanted to do good, wanted to do better for the community. And so anyway, the reason I bring that up is that there's been a community, or the community has gotten together and our committee has formed called Our Decisions, Our Solutions. And we had a press conference last week and in there what we want to do is
 talk to the alderman, talk to the community, talk to the neighbors, through neighborhood meetings, coffee talks, etc. to bring out the pros and the cons, both, of home rule, of local control. I think that's very important because there's a lot of myths, just like the myth with this cartoon. And so,
 The reason I'm really here is to let people know that we're going to be starting this. It hasn't even been read in to council, but I wanted to get in early to let people know that we're going to have a website established. We're going to have all these discussions and letting people know the pros and cons.
 But the reason I'm here today is really to ask the City Council one question, is to say please or make a comment instead of asking a question. Please when it comes back to Council, it really needs to be a unanimous vote to put it on a referendum.
 The reason is, is it allows the community to understand that you're willing to give the community a choice. Whether they agree with it or not agree with it. You know, if they accept it or not accept with it. It's been 35 years since the community has had a choice. Let's give the community a choice. And by voting 100% that it goes on the referendum, it tells the people that,
 You we hit you have our backs one way or the other whether they agree with it and vote Yes, or they don't agree with it and vote no, so thank you very much. Just wanted to bring that up Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening moving into new committee reports We have alderman Shirely for codes and regulations. Thank you your honor first committee report the committee recommends approval of the final plat number two of Alpine Business Park subdivision and
 The second, the committee recommends approval of the adoption of an ordinance regulating massage establishments. The third, the committee recommends approval of the proposed adoption of the dog tethering ordinance. And the final one is the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to Chapter 4, Article 2, Division 2, Section 4 through 58 of the City of Rockford Ordinances, Dogs Running at Large.
 place those items up for passage your honor first like to amend and then a motion to amend number two your honor in the motion is to lower the fee of seventy five dollars to fifty dollars for the application fee for the uh... massage therapist businesses okay so there's a a motion on the floor in a second
 5B2, correct? That's correct, Your Honor. Okay. Is there a discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelly? According to the legislation, Your Honor, wasn't that amended at the committee level? Yes. To the $75? Yes. So we... We're amending to lower that $75 to $50. Okay.
 Looks like the amendment that is being proposed is bringing it back from $75 that was approved at committee to lower that to $50 annual license fee, annual fee.
 Is there further discussion? Alderman Thunberg? I'd just like to add that I've spoken with a number of licensed massage therapists and also have gotten a couple emails and the majority of them are fine with the $50. $75 they believe is a little excessive. Currently right now it is, to my understanding, zero. So
 they were overwhelmingly okay with a 50. Okay. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. I think one of the other questions was the actual cost that it would cost our city staff. That was one of the questions. The reason why it went to 75 to cover that cost, did anyone calculate that it would actually cost the taxpayers in order for us to police this?
 I do not believe staff has a calculation of that cost, of what it would cost for that going out to the business. Alderman Beck? The reason I'm supporting the Fiat 50 is this is an issue that we have, we're trying to get a handle on illegitimate businesses
 that are offering massage without proper licensure, without proper insurance. Obviously, we think they're probably doing things besides massage that are not legal or, you know, within our accepted behaviors within the city. And we are going to be able to collect fines and penalties from businesses that do that, that violate our ordinances. But I don't know that we need to put the entire burden of that enforcement –
 on the legitimate businesses that are running who haven't done anything to contribute to the negative aspect of this business. They're just providing a service to people, and it's a very recognized, approved service. So that's why I understand the need to have some kind of a fee, but I certainly don't think that we need to capture every expense from those that are paying the fees.
 Alderman Rose. You know, I think we went from 75, we were down at 10, I think we went to 75, now we're going back to 50. When I go fishing up in Wisconsin for two days, I pay a $50 fishing license fee. I don't think it's,
 too much to ask that we enforce this ordinance and we do it with an amount that can address the issue in our neighborhoods. I know for a fact that I've had two of these parlor issues that sprung up here recently. And I know if I have two, there's probably three others that we haven't found
 And I know that other neighborhoods have the same issue. And so I'd hate for us to undercut the amount when we then in fact put the cost on regular taxpayers, the homeowning taxpayers with our property taxes. And so my hope is that we continue to go with the $75 fee.
 in the sense that it is not a, it's not too much to ask. I pay $50 for a Wisconsin fishing license
 Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, I would agree $25 is not asking for much going from $50 to $75. My point, though, I'm supporting the $50 is that we're – these are individuals, the licensed massage therapists, who to no fault of their own,
 this is happening in our community. I don't want to see us setting any kind of standard, going after legitimate businesses, legitimate individuals who are law-abiding citizens themselves and with the business that they perform to essentially penalize them.
 for the wrongdoing of other individuals and businesses. So, you know, I personally, I don't even like the $50, but I understand that something needs to be done and the city is at a shortfall and we're gonna be policing this matter like we haven't before. And so to hear back from these individuals who I've just mentioned,
 to say they're for the most part they're okay going with 50 from zero to 50. um you know as i think is asking a lot but uh for them to for the most part to be comfortable with that i i i applaud them for that so thank you for the time mayor
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have one comment. It's unfortunate right now that Rockford seems to have a reputation for sex trafficking and sex trade. And unfortunately, when something like that happens, we have to cast a wide net in order to enforce it and to change what's been happening in Rockford and, in some respects, returning
 to our city after the federal indictments from one of the previous Massage parlor owners which seemed to be cropping up again in order to regulate our community Sometimes this is what we have to do And we do have to other businesses do pay business fees in order to stay there The the deal is though it's not written in stone this can be revisited and the fees can be eliminated reduced changed or whatever and
 But unfortunately, the legitimate massage business folks are getting swept up in a net. It's not their doing, but you can't deny the reality of the problem in Rockford and many other communities. So I'm supportive of the ordinance, and whatever the fee is, $50 or $75, I can live with. But it's not unusual to require a business fee in order to
 support the city's endeavor to eliminate the unlawful massage that goes on. And actually, in doing so, we protect the legitimate massage therapists who are here because as the reputation of Rockford as a sex trafficking place grows,
 is diminished and eliminated, they run less of a risk of some weird guy showing up at one of their establishments who provide legitimate massage from a guy seeking an illegitimate massage. So I think if we fix our reputation, we can go back and revisit the ordinance. It's not written on a stone tablet. Thank you. Alderman Nervins.
 I just, I mean I guess the simplest way I could put it is one apple, one spoiled apple ruins the bunch. I know that firsthand growing up in a house full of kids, you know, once it was lights out it was lights out. And if someone decided to act out and knock the TV off the shelf, everybody got a whooping. Everybody.
 And I would say the same thing. I mean, I have personal friends that has called me, hey, Natavious, this is not cool. We haven't done anything. People have to be licensed. It's legit. And it's like, I mean, myself as a carpenter, I gotta pay dues. And if this is how we're gonna police it and find a way to police it, then it's necessary. I mean, if we're gonna make change, then we have to do change. If we're gonna produce change, we have to make changes. So, yeah.
 Unfortunately, I mean, some of the ones that are legit and haven't done anything wrong is going to have to be underneath this. But at the end of the day, what we're striving for and what we're going after is a safe community. Alderman Quinones. I'm in favor of this ordinance, and I think I'll go along with the $50 because I'm not –
 But it should have been businesses. I'm not worried about them, but I'm having some businesses in my ward popping up. And we've got to start somewhere to support this ordinance with the $50. Thank you. So we have a motion and a second on the floor. No further discussion. Clerk, will you call the roll on the motion on the floor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. No. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, so that motion passes. So we have items one through four up. Item two has been amended. Is there any further discussion on items one through four? Seeing no discussion, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I voted no because most people that are in business certainly make more than $75 within a 12-month period. I'm not sure who brought this forward for a $25 change period.
 for something that, for the city, whatever it is, for the city to take care of or address in a 12-month period for one type of business. That's the reason why I voted no. It just doesn't make sense. There's no burden in $25, and if it is, perhaps that shouldn't even be a business. So I will not support the...
 the $25 change. And I do appreciate all the individuals that are here tonight that came forward and helped educate us. I certainly appreciated them coming in and showing their concern. However, I don't think $25 will break or make you. Thank you. Okay. So all items 1 through 4, 2 has already been amended. Alderman Irvin. Sorry to draw this out. I'm just...
 When I think of $25 or $75 or $50, you know, we can't necessarily look at anybody's living situation and determine whether or not they're going through some type of hardship or financial struggle. Many of the times, myself was going through a financial struggle and no one ever knew. But again, I mean, if they're in business,
 I would have to say looking at the situation, you have people that, that hearts are, are really genuine and they're really trying to run a legitimate business. And it is those that, uh,
 mistreated the opportunity and weren't good stewards with what they have and now you have people that don't deserve this penalty Receiving this penalty and I'm I mean like I said, I'm all for because I mean we have to figure out a way to fix it You know, but at the same time
 we don't have to lay such a heavy financial burden. I mean, it's not a heavy financial burden because that's your claim there, but it's still a financial burden. Anytime someone say, hey, Natavious, give me $75. I'm like, for what? You know? But yeah, that's all I really wanted to say. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. On all four.
 Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Shirelli. Items 1, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item number 2, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Item 3 and 4, 11 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you.
 Yes, we have six items tonight first is a vouchers an amount of nine million six hundred twenty four thousand seven or seven dollars and forty eight cents next is the approval of the sale of property located at 6xx chestnut Street and
 to Susan and Steve Pitkin for their bid of $2. Next is the approval of the fine reduction request for 424 Gramercy Court to $500 as property is in compliance. Next, we recommend approval of the fine reduction request at 2320 Wallis Street to $300 as property is in compliance. Next is the approval of the 2017 supplemental appropriation ordinance.
 And the last one is approval of the 2018 fee schedule increases. I place these six items up for passage. Thank you. Is there discussion on any of the six items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? I'm sorry, there is discussion. Alderman Irvins. Three and four, I mean, it states to reduce fines for those to a number, but what are they coming from? I'm misunderstanding. Mr. Pagnoni? What are they being reduced from?
 The number. If you give me a moment, I can pull the memo so I have it up here in front of me in regards to what the total reduction was. But both of these properties have gone through the process of bringing the buildings up to code. On item number four, it's a new property owner that has acquired the property. Relates to item number three, the original fine was $75,000.
 Item number four, the original fine was $105,000. Both of these, item number three is consistent with council's past practice. Item number four is a slight deviation from there, reducing it down to $300. This was through an effort to get a property owner to take on the redevelopment of the property. Thank you. Any further discussion? Thank you. Same note, Alderman McNeil.
 comments regarding C2. Okay. I'd like to know how we determined a bid of $2. Our cost for recording or anything related to that is greater than $2. This is the first time I've seen a property come before us for a bid of $2. So I'd like an explanation, and I'd like to know the size of that property.
 It says it's a portion of an alley. Is that the only thing that it is? I will give an attempt, and I'll ask staff if I'm wrong. So it was a public bid that we opened, so that's how it got to the $2. That's a bid that the public, and we have received one bid.
 Second is the Pitkins who made the bid own the building that is adjacent, the property adjacent. Three, the size of the track of land is literally a sliver of land that...
 unless you owned the building next door to it, it would be absolutely worth zero to you. I believe in some areas it's like two feet wide sliver of an old alley. But I'll ask staff if I got that accurate. Thank you.
 I'm getting a lot of head nods, so I'm going to take that as a yes, but Mr. Cagnone? Your Honor, yes, that is accurate information, and typically when we go out to bid, the bid also includes our legal costs and recording. Legal Director Meyer can confirm that. That's correct. Is that how it goes? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So is that the cost, legal cost as well in there, the $2? That's the legal cost?
 Mr. Meyers? No, that would not the $2 would not include a legal cost I don't know what the exact figure is for publishing the paper but it's not certainly in excess of $2. I believe the alderman's question is how are we recouping that cost if we're selling it for $2? We would not recoup that cost So, let's take Hold on, we'll leave the check Alderman McNeely, do you have a follow up? Yeah, Mr. Mayor
 It's not the $2. It's consistency. So I have constituents that come to me and I go to legal and talk to them. They want the property next door to them because it's vacant for whatever reason. And the city is in ownership of it. And so there's always the cost of legal publishing and publishing.
 a minimum bid. It doesn't sound like this even went out as a minimum bid. It certainly didn't go out as a sell for the bid amount and the legal and publishing amount. So at the very least I think we should get the legal and the publishing. So if this needs to be sent back, then I'm still making that... Before you make the motion, I think legal has a...
 I don't want to cut you off either. No, no, I understand. Thank you. Okay. Well, I understand that, thank you, Your Honor. My understanding is this sliver of property was supposed to have been conveyed to the property owner some time ago and for some reason, either the legal was not drafted accurately or it was left out. And so we're trying to, once we discovered the discrepancy, we cannot simply convey that property.
 by statute, have to go out to bid on these things. So that's why the bid was for $2, I assume, why we had to go out for a bid. It's intent to make the property owners whole under a mistake that was made a while back. Was this about the construction of the Justice Center? It's in conjunction with the construction of the Justice Center.
 I think it was a basically, lack of a better, probably not legal term, a promise to convey this property, and it was never legally conveyed, so asking them for some amount, $2. Okay, Mr. Mayor, I appreciate it. I'm glad we had this discussion so anyone else that comes before the city won't think that they can buy a half-acre land for $2 with no cost whatsoever. So thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Tundberg. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to convey to Alderman Neely that this is most likely more so than not a formality. Apparently this, yes, this city was, and so Pitkins went through the process and we're actually getting $1 more than they were actually going to bid apparently. Double their budget. I wanted to add that. The original bid was going to be $1. Okay.
 All right. Any other further discussion on the items before us, the six items before us? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Lugerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. No. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beth. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 I am number 111 eyes 1 no I am number 212 eyes item 3 and 411 eyes when no item 512 eyes and item 610 eyes to know. Thank you all items pass and next up we have officers reports and I'll decide make 2 notes one is.
 You should have on your desk this evening the capital improvement plan for 2018. I know staff is working hard to meet with all of the aldermen if they so wish on an individual or small group setting. I believe they've heard back from about half the aldermen. So if you have not responded back to staff, please do so if you'd like to have a meeting. I think they want to start those meetings sooner than later. I think the goal is immediately following the holiday.
 But I think the book looks really wonderful and I think staff, no matter anyone's thoughts and we can have a bunch of discussions about the capital improvement plan, but I think you'll find that staff did a tremendous job putting the booklet together for all of the aldermen. Last thing I'd like to mention on a positive note, we have an employee, Aaron Stone, with the City of Rockford Public Works team.
 is on the board of the American Public Works Association, the Illinois chapter. But what's really interesting is as of January 1, 2018, she will not only be the youngest president of this organization, but she'll be the first ever female president that the organization has ever had. So if you see Erin Stone around, please tell her congratulations. It's quite an honor, and she is most deserving of that.
 Next, I will open it up for the floor for any officers' reports. Alderman Thompson-Keller.
 First of all, I'd like to thank the department heads and aldermen, as well as our state representative for the seniors' luncheon last week. It was a success, as always. My understanding is we had over 172 seniors that were served that day. So I do appreciate, I don't think anyone gets more out of it than I do, but I appreciate your support in that.
 The other thing is I'm questioning the individual meetings with the CIP. Are we going to have...
 a joint meeting with all the aldermen to discuss the major projects that is put before us. I think it's not, we've tried this route before and it wasn't very productive until we start opening up and having a full council discussion on the major projects that are going to take place in the capital improvement plan. So I do have a great concern that the individual meetings is not going to be, in my opinion,
 I'm beneficial to me to know what's going on in this entire community and how the community capital improvement plan dollars are being spent
 Yeah, just to respond to that, one, you'll see it's in a draft form, so you're going to have one-on-one meetings as a draft form to provide any feedback to staff and myself and our team so that we can put together a final copy if any additions or subtractions need to be made or we see any themes. And then, yes, we as a group will be discussing the entire capital improvement program as a body. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you.
 No other officers report? I was about to say, some of you aren't that shy. Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to encourage
 individuals to attend the Ice Hogs game on Wednesday night after the third period. They are attempting to set the world record for most individuals with facial hair in one place to celebrate and support men's health. I believe the proceeds will go to testicular cancer. So for those of you who regularly wear facial hair, Mayor,
 Attorney Partridge. I do it only when I look 11 otherwise, so. My fellow alderman Rose over there. City Administrator Cagnoni. Am I missing anyone? First Ward Alderman Tim Durkee. So, oh, yes. Alderman Irvins.
 So yes, and I have made a sad attempt for the last month to grow something. And so I can't wait until Wednesday when I can shave it off afterwards. But it is a great event and I would encourage everyone out there in the community, to the multitudes of people that are watching tonight,
 to get out to the IceHogs game at the end of third period. It's a great event, and we can hopefully set a world record here in Rockford. Alderman Beach, I expect you will be there and there as well. Unshaven as usual. So, Glenn, yes, you're looking. Sorry. Okay, thank you, Mayor.
 Also, just a quick reminder, we have a stroll on state this weekend, Saturday. I believe that starts, official stroll on state starts, I believe, at 2 and goes until 9 p.m. They do have a run prior, so it's a free event, not the run, but the event from 2 to 9 is free for anyone in the city and surrounding communities to come down and enjoy the festivities. Alderman Rose.
 I just wanted to thank Jason Thompson from our neighborhood association, the Nezma Neighborhood. When you drive down Huffman Boulevard each spring and in the fall, a lot of the flowers and the work that gets put in is actually done on really bad, cold –
 rainy days like Saturday where I know Jason was Was planting bulbs and had to help a few volunteers. And so I want to Let the city know that it's peace and people like Jason that continue to step up and volunteer and and You know treat his neighborhood much like it's its home. So It would be a different neighborhood without himself alderman McNeely. I
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I want to thank Officer Simichuk for coming out to the half of the 13th Ward meeting last week. And I want to thank the individuals that came out as well. Certainly want to thank Chief Deputy Redd for having the location open for us. And also for her help in putting it together.
 I also want to wish everyone a happy Thanksgiving. Try not to eat too much turkey. And then, Mr. Mayor, I'd like to, I received a letter from a student from Thurgood Marshall Elementary Gifted Academy. Okay.
 The student is in the third grade, and the letter is regarding pollution. And if I may, for a few seconds here, read part of it. Please do. Bathrooms pollute many forms of nature, water, land, and air. To stop this, we could send all water from toilets to go to a wildlife company so they can turn it into compost. It can cause methane to go into the air. To stop this, we could stop using outhouses.
 Germs can get into the purified water to stop this we could make all the water in the sewers go to a boiler and get All of the germs out of the water I've been here long enough that we've had a number of aldermen that have complained about city water and I
 Otterman Kern had at one point brought in a glass jar, sealed glass jar with the water in it. He kept over a period of time and brought it in and declared that we needed to do something with our city water. So I have to read this in. I certainly appreciate you on my will.
 call or send a letter to him regarding this, but I do appreciate his letter and sharing with everyone because we do need our kids to get involved, and a kid wants to get, go into science is something very good for our country overall. Thanks.
 I think Marshall must have had the whole class or several classes write letters. Oh, good. We've been writing them back all week, or we will be, I should say. Other comments, officers, reports? Seeing none, okay. Thank you.
 Next up, we have appointments laid over. Appointment of Dennis Rich, those who do not know Dennis, he is a member of the Keith Creek Neighborhood Association, to the Community Action Advisory Board to fill the vacant client sector position of the board. Mr. Rich will serve the three-year term. Pursuant to Rule 18, the appointment will be laid over until December 6th.
 Next up we have motions and resolutions. And we start with Alderman Shirely in codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. At the first resolution approving the 2018 City Council calendar,
 The second is a request from the Convention of Jehovah Witness parking fee waiver for the convention weekends July 26th through 29th, 2018, August 2nd through the 5th, 2018, and August 9th through the 10th, 2018. This waiver is in effect for four years from 2018 through 2021. Thank you for your passage, Your Honor. Thank you, sir. Any comments? Alderman Frost. With respect to number two in the parking waiver.
 I was wondering if we could make a motion to pass the ordinance just for one year and table the discussion for the three years and see if we can work out a better agreement between the Rave, the Metro Center, the CVB, and the city all at one time for the remaining three years. Okay, so we have a motion and a second on the floor for item 8B2. Is there a discussion on the motion in front of us? Alderman Beach. Thank you. I don't think I'd have a problem with it.
 as long as we would connect with the Jehovah's Witnesses who want a four-year contract and let them know that a year from now we're going to have another. I mean, they want to sign that, and they want that guarantee. If we're going to just wait a year to get a better deal around with the Convention Bureau and RAVE, I'm okay with that. I think that's okay. But not that a year from now we'll tell the Jehovah's, no. No.
 We're not going to do this. I think if we're not going to do that, we have to vote on that now. Yes or no on it. But if we're going to honor that four year agreement that they want, then we have to have something in the language that will let them know that we are going to be giving them some assistance, that we just need to have more clarification internally. Thank you. Alderman Irvins. Just want to say I agree with Alderman Leach there. Thank you.
 Alderman McNeely and then Alderman Thompson-Kelley. And I would like to join Alderman Irvings and say that I agree with Alderman Beach as well. Okay, Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 Well, I agree with the motion that's on the floor simply because the fact of the matter is these dollars have to come out of the general budget. They can't come out of the parking. They can't come out of CD. They have to come out of the general budget. And I can see us making the commitment for one year and looking at it in the future because the dollars are just not there for the general budget. That's the reason why I will support this.
 Before you have the follow-up in mind, if I go to Alderman Beck before. Alderman Beck? I certainly favor the four-year commitment. I think that the benefit far outweighs the cost to us.
 for the amount of economic activity that this convention brings. To me, we're quibbling over a small amount of money compared to what it brings to the city. And I just don't think it shows a lot of respect for how much we appreciate that convention choosing to locate here. They've got lots of opportunities of places they can go, and I can see very well us losing them for next year if we don't take advantage of this opportunity right now. And I also would point out that we're not spending any money
 there's no dollars coming out of the general fund. We're not bringing in money that we would if we charged for parking, but if we charge for the parking and they don't come, well, there's no money to collect anyway. So I think we're arguing over money that's not even really there. We're taking a really big risk of losing a lot of money that is there and it won't be there for the next four years. I will certainly support the existing proposal for the four years.
 Agreed alderman beach and I'll go to rose and my comment was covered by Alderman Beck in terms of the general fund. Thank you alderman rose. Thank you, man I had a conversation last week with some city staff member and you know
 A lot of times when people come here or when a developer comes here or whatever the case and they ask for a waiver or a fee waiver or something like that, I feel like sometimes as a city, we kind of push ourselves down. We say, well, we're not good enough for this fee. We're not good enough for, you know,
 to be able to attract business or to be able to attract people to our town. And I disagree with that. I think we're a great town. I think we have to stop telling ourselves that in order to attract business, that in order to attract development, that we gotta give away things, especially those things that end up impacting our property taxes. And so,
 You know, if we did a fee waiver for 20 years on this, someone's going to come back to us and say, well, now you don't have good parking. We're not going to come back. At some point, we have to have the conversation of are we good enough as a city to pay a small, small fee? We have some of the best restaurants in the Midwest. We have hotels that that
 have the capacity to have these conventions. And I'll tell you what, if another city or another organization came to us and said, yeah, well, we're looking at DeKalb or we're looking at Madison or we're looking at Iowa or Dixon or Peoria, that's fine. But we have some of the best fine dining, some great hotels, and we've got to stop doing this to ourselves and put the costs in
 that are the actual costs. That's where I kind of stand on this, and I'll pass it on to the next person. Alderman Durkee. Your Honor, I would agree with Alderman Beck. I do know the convention business is a very competitive business, and
 You know, we as a city need to work with conventioneers and such. We are on the hook for building a convention center across the river. There's a simple rule of marketing when it comes to certain things like this. You work with people and you achieve something, they tell 50. You piss them off and drive them away. I'm sorry, if you help them, they tell five. If you piss them off, they tell 50.
 And so I think as a city, we at least need to have that reputation of being able to work with conventioneers and draw that business. And again, we have a building, hopefully, that will be full in the future. And I think we lay the track now of setting a reputation of working with conventioneers to some degree. Thank you. Alderman Irving. I don't have much to say, but, you know, I don't –
 personally feel like Rockford at this moment could stick his chest out and say, hey, either you do it our way or you don't do it at all. To invest in such a thing as this, collaborating and working, I think the idea here is to bring people to the city.
 you know, to build the community. It even goes along with the welcoming ordinance. You know, come here. We're willing to do business. You know, any investment is an investment, and hopefully that investment will get a return. And those people come into this city, spend the money, and build relationships with the members of this city is what I think we should be striving for. So thank you.
 You're both itching to raise your hands. Which one wants to go first? Alderman Thunberg. I'll set the example. Thank you, Mayor. I think if we were the only game in town, I think we could be more firm on this. But the fact is, we're not the only game in town. We're competing against other cities for this type of business. I would love to be able to collect every fee and such if that was feasible.
 But the fact of the matter is it's a cost-benefit analysis, you know, shows the economic impact of bringing in conventions like this. And for, I believe it's $24,000 is what we would be giving up. But apparently the analysis is $800,000 economic impact.
 I would also just add that if those numbers are questionable, meaning the economic impact, I think we need to also be firm in numbers that are coming to us. I'm an economics finance guy, so if I'm getting numbers that are incorrect, I'm gonna have a real issue with that. So if the economic impact is stated or exaggerated,
 I'm not saying it is, but for future reference, if we're getting numbers that don't seem to add up, there's going to be some issues. So thank you. I think that, just so you're aware, I believe the report says it's about 500,000, 550,000 of economic impact, not 800,000.
 And that's annually is the way I understand it. It's about 1,100 room nights, and we're paying about $25,000. Well, we're not paying. We would be relieving...
 the convention of about 25,000 total in hopes of gaining that 500, $550,000 number. But I don't believe it's a hundred, so you're aware. Alderman Frost? Thank you. The purpose of the motion wasn't to put our chests out and say either pay it or don't come to Rockford by any means. It was really a matter of the fact that to get back at the table with the City of Rockford representatives at the table along with the other participants in the city that are including the CDB
 which I'm on the board of, and to see what really is in the best interest of everybody at the same time. So I don't want to go down the line of the fear monger that, you know, oh, if it doesn't come here, then we're going to lose out, because I don't want to give the
 give the impression that that's what we're doing or we should always fear about that. We're not building another convention center in Rockford. There's a conference center that's supposed to be attached to the Amrock Hotel that would not accommodate this crowd in the first place. But we do have the Metro Center in town and I just think that we need to have, since we as a city subsidize the Metro Center, that we should really be more of an active role.
 I did receive a call today from an individual with this group and they talked about really the cost per seat and what it really costs for their members to come here. And so when we talked about the DeKalb
 conference center, a convention center where it was actually held, I think, in years past before it returned to Rockford. I asked where they all stayed because DeKalb does not have nearly as many hotels as Rockford does. And when I'm told that, you know, well, actually quite a few of the folks stayed in Rockford and drove to DeKalb every day, I'm thinking, well, it'd be an awful lot cheaper to, in this case, pay $5 for parking than to have
 commute back and forth to DeKalb every day. So we talked about the cost-benefit analysis. I just think that we should
 have a little bit more of an active role. I'm not saying that to go back on the deal right now, I just think I have no problem because of where they are with it for the one year, but I just think if we're going to continue to have relationship, which I think is a good thing, and I want to advocate for that, and I'm not saying that I have a magic number what I think it should be, whether it should be $5 or whatever the number should be, but I just think
 it just would be helpful if it was renegotiated or at least there was a conversation. And like Alderman Beach said, to have it sooner than later. Let's not wait a year on it. Let's talk about it right now and get it cleared up and, you know, if need be, amend it. Or if need be, leave it alone. I just think we need to have that conversation. Thank you. So we have a motion on the floor. I would just mention that for both RAVE and RACVB,
 through our agreements, we have them negotiating these deals. And we also have aldermen as representatives on both of these committees. So it's not that we're in the dark or should be in the dark on these different agreements that come before us. I, for one, am proponent if we can get $500,000 or if it's half of that alderman-Thunberg and it's $250,000 for four years, so for a $25,000
 investment and utilizing an underutilized asset that on that Saturday, that's half the time they would be using it, will be completely vacant, I think is a pretty good return on the investment. Clerk, will you call the roll on the motion to make this a one-year agreement? Durkee? No. Logeman? Me. Toonberg? No. Frost? Aye. Irvins? No.
 Thompson Kelly, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely. Okay, so that motion passes. Fails. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry it fails. Fails 8-3, correct? 9-3. 9-3. I shouldn't keep the track. You should. So it fails 9-3. We have items 1 and 2 before us.
 Any discussion on the items one and two before us seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? locum and timber frost Irvins Thompson Kelly Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirley 12 eyes on number one and number two ten eyes two notes Thank you both items pass alderman back
 Thank you, Your Honor. Please bear with me. We have 13 items. I'll try to read them in as quickly as possible. First is a word of bid for citywide fueling services to Kelly Williamson Mobile for an estimated annual amount of $1 million contract. Duration is three years with two one-year extensions. Next is a word of bid for snow removal for police parking lots and sidewalks to A-plus and...
 A plus A lawn care of Rockford for an estimated value of $28,000. The duration of the contract is one year with two one-year extensions. Next is award a bid for fast track demolitions of group number six, the N-track group, in the amount of $86,853 to, yeah, the funding sources Community Development Block Grant
 Next, we have the awarded bid for West State Street Phase 2 demolition package G-2017 to Northern Illinois Service Company at Rockford in the amount of $58,200 for the demolition of various properties.
 Next is the award of a joint purchasing contract for sidewalk de-icers to ProSource of Rockford, Illinois for an estimated value of $30,000. Contact duration is from the date of the award through February 2018. Next is an engineering agreement for South Main parking lots to Fair Graham for design engineering, the amount of $47,729.
 Project should be completed in 2018. Next is the engineering agreement for State Street West parking deck. Design engineering to Walker Consultants of Elgin, Illinois in the amount of $56,850. Next is the improvement, I'm sorry, resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for preliminary engineering construction and construction engineering for Strathmore Drive extension amount of $3 million.
 Next is a resolution for improvements under the Illinois Highway Code R1 Planning Council annual funding for the year 2015. The amount is $76,292.
 And next is the resolution for improvement of the Illinois Highway Code R1 Planning Council annual funding for the year 2016 in the amount of $76,292. Next is the resolution for improvement of the Illinois Highway Code R1 Planning Council annual funding for the year 2017 in the amount of $76,292. Next is the approval to apply for the Abandoned Residential Property Municipality Relief Program Grant Application, round number three. We're applying for $250,000.
 for a residential property municipality relief program that would give the Rockford the ability to demolish approximately 30 additional properties over a two-year time frame.
 And then the final is the approval to apply for Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program grant application. The city will submit an application to construct a sidewalk on the east side of Parkview Avenue for University of Illinois College of Medicine to Spring Creek Road. Estimated cost of the project is $550,000, of which the city's responsibility is estimated at $110,000. I place these 13 items up for passage.
 Thank you. So there's 13 items before us. Is there a discussion? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Item number 9 and 10, are the years correct on my tablet? It says year 2015 for 9 and 2016 for 10. Yes. Just cleaning up some contracts that were in place in the past but hadn't gotten the final approval. And that's for the RMAP annual funding. The only reason why I caution is because you were stated 2017.
 That includes all three years, 2015, 2016, and 2017, right? Okay. Further questions? Alderman Frost. With respect to number 13, the sidewalk on Parkview, it says the estimated cost is $550,000 and it's a sidewalk. Have we looked into whether or not perhaps like an asphalt multi-use path or larger path could be built for cheaper, and are we committed to this $550,000 cost now or is it something that we could –
 bit out or change or I don't know, I just don't know what the IDOT rules are for it. Yeah, I will hand that over to Mr. Stockman. I don't know that we're necessarily committed to sidewalk versus multi-use path, however, there are some significant challenges and grade changes on this project that would make it even more difficult by having a 10-foot multi-use path rather than a 5 to 6-foot width sidewalk.
 Staff would certainly entertain any suggestions or would offer to sit down with you to take a closer look at this. This is simply to apply for the grant itself. Once the grant were to be awarded, we could then look at the design criteria, whether multi-use path or concrete sidewalk. Thank you.
 If the council wanted to, Mr. Stockman, they could vote not to accept an award if we were awarded it. That is correct. Seeing no further discussion on the 13 items before us, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Yes. No one, just three. Aye.
 Items 1, 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 12 ayes. Thank you. So those items pass. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 First is an ordinance regulating massage establishments. The second is an ordinance approving the amendments to Section 4-62 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances adopting dog tethering ordinance. The third is an ordinance approving the amendments to Chapter 4, Article 2, Division 2, Section 4-58 of the City of Rockford Ordinances, dogs running at large. I place these ordinances up for passage, Your Honor.
 thank you so we have three items before us is there any discussion under the three items
 Alderman Rose. Quick, I wanted to say that we don't always talk about the work that our staff and our aldermen put in, and I wanted to thank our staff for coming up with an ordinance and under the leadership of John Beck, putting forth that ordinance to take care of these issues with pets. And I think it says a lot about the work that you're doing and, you know,
 our city staff has put in a lot of work on this matter, I know as well, and I just want, I think we have to talk about some of the good things that our staff and our aldermen are working on. So thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Ergens. Tempest Kelly. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck.
 Sure. Really? Items 1, 2, 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. One, first is an ordinance approving the sale of property at 6XX Chestnut Street for $2. Next is an ordinance approving the 2017 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. And the last is approving the 2018 fee schedule increases. Place these three items up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the three items before us? Yes.
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Key. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomberg. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Back. McNeely. Chiarelli. 1, 2, 11, ayes. Item number 3, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Alderman Logerman, do you have any...
 Final words for us this evening before oh alderman trellis. Sorry. Thank you. You're the bearer of good unless Break the news tonight. I would like to make a motion your honor to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters Anyone out there want a second anyone Bueller?
 Thank you. I was actually getting serious for a second. All those in favor, we all need a roll call on that. Can you please call the roll? Berkey, Logeman, Toonberg, Ross, Irvins, Thompson-Kelly, Rose, H., Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, 12, Aja. Thank you.