First 2022 clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee, here. Logeman, here. Toomberg, here. Frost, here. Tarina, here. Prunty, here. Wilkins, here. Hoffman, here. Rose, here. Beach, here. Quinones, here. Meeks, here. Bonnie, here. 13 present. Excellent we have a quorum this evening Next is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on September 19th 2022 We have a motion we have the seconds or any discussion No discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed. Okay. We've already done our proclamations and so next we will go to our public hearing and we will turn it over to alderman frost who's the chair of Finance and Personnel Committee and This evening we have a public hearing in the proposed 2023 budget and appropriation ordinance Sorry tonight. We have a public hearing in the proposed 2023 Budget and appropriation ordinance. I hereby call a public hearing on the proposed 2023 municipal budget appropriation appropriation ordinance to order pursuant to 65 illinois compiled statutes 5 8 2 9 a public hearing must be conducted by the city council prior to the adoption of an appropriation ordinance notice of this hearing was given by publication in the rockford register star on october 21 2022. that notice informed citizens Rockford that a copy of the proposed budget and appropriation ordinance could be reviewed in the finance department third floor City Hall Building 425 East Acheyton Rockford, Illinois from 8 a.m. To 5 p.m. Weekdays The proposed budget was also available online on the city's website Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the appropriate with the appropriation ordinance? If so, please kindly step to the microphone and give us your name address and make your statement Is there anybody here willing to do that? Or does anyone have any questions? Seeing none, Your Honor, this public hearing is hereby adjourned. Thank you. Next we'll move to petitions and communications. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. UNDER PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, ITEM A, UNDER NUMBER ONE, MEMORANDUM FROM TODD CAGNONI, CITY ADMINISTRATOR, REGARDING THE PROPOSED FUNDING LONG-TERM LOAN FOR THE CONTINUED CAPITALIZATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF A COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTION, CDFI, IN PARTNERSHIP WITH NORTHERN ILLINOIS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND ROCKFORD LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION. local financial institutions this item is referred to Planning and Development Committee and item number two a memorandum from Anna Garrison economic development manager regarding the TIF redevelopment agreement with Village Green nursery of Rockford incorporated and this item 2 is referred to Planning and Development Committee thank you your honor thank you next we'll go to a code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina thank you your honor A memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the third quarter report from July through September on liquor license establishments with video gaming, subject to the 50% requirement referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. There's a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the 2023 through 2027 Capital Improvement Program. This item will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Legal Director Myers. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of our Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $392,957.89. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Alderman Rose, who has a petition. Your Honor, I was informed that more work needs to be done on it, so I'd like to hold that for at least another week. Okay. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to our public speakers. We have four public speakers this evening. I want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back left as well as the back right of council chambers. Each speaker is provided three minutes to address city council. You will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring, and that is your key to call your comments to a close. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of John, the 14th chapter, the 12th verse, Jesus said, he that believes in the works I do, same works, greater works than these. He's letting you know you've got power. The only thing you've got to do is just use it. What I want to speak about tonight, the power of belief. The beliefs we have dictate what our future will be, not our circumstances. This means that if we believe something is so, that belief will ensure that a situation will turn out as we believe it will. not as we wish. For example, although many who start out in life with an economic disadvantage go on to achieve great successful things for the most part, if someone comes from a poor background, they will continue on with the cycle of poverty through their own lives and the lives of their children. This is a statistical fact. The ones that start out with every advantage are usually the ones who have continued success. Much of this is because their rich parents see to it, but also because they do not expect anything other than success. In short, they believe they will be successful, so therefore they turn out to be so. On the other hand, for those who overcame a disadvantaged childhood and went on to lead successful lives, they did so mostly because of their belief that some Someday they would. This has been proven over and over again when these people discuss their role to success. The whole point being made here. If you believe something cannot be done, then you will not be able to do it. There's an old saying, first you dream it, then you believe it, then you plan it, then you do it. If you want to transform Rockford, you have to change the way the people in Rockford think. They must have a positive self-image of themselves so they can be successful in life. I also thank God for NBA star Van Fleet for helping the poor people in Rockford and hard rocker singers. They gave out 1,000 turkeys and cooking things for the poor people in Rockford. I also want to thank God for Pastor Melvin Brown and his wife, prophetess Sheila Brown for helping the poor people in Rockford. His wife gave a seminar Saturday on how people can be financially independent. We need more seminars like that in Rockford. In the book of Psalms, the 41st chapter, the first verse, it says, blessed is the man that helped the poor. The Lord will help him in time of trouble. Thank you for allowing me to speak and have a beautiful Thanksgiving. And don't eat all the turkey. Say something for me. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom. Good evening, Tom McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Tank Augustine said it best, an unjust law is no law at all. Wow, we have come to the time where the white privilege elites can tell a lie and get mad when you do not believe they lie. I'm going to pause for a minute because this here month we done had six mass killings. in the United States. 90% of them are based on racism. So far we've had over 40 mass killings here in the United States. We are in the midst of a civil war that ever since Donald Trump got in office, the racism has escalated. Hopefully, I'm hoping that Tom McNamara, the fire department, the sheriff's department, and the police department have a contingency plan and the school have a contingency plan that if this ever happened here that we are prepared to deal with it. I want to mention about the election. Sixty percent of the young people between the age of 18 and 28 years old voted Democratic. The have and the have not, whether we damn if we do, we damn if we don't. If we vote, our vote is taken for granted and that's why a lot of us don't vote. However, the city gets federal funds, state funds, and the Habanach see very little but kibbles and bits. However, special interest groups, the Bush YG, the Septicons get large amounts of funds and the Habanach see very little of it. This week is Thanksgiving week. And the pilgrims had a hard time during the harvesting their land. The Indians showed them how to harvest their land. But in the process of doing that, I'm going to take a page out of Geronimo, Cochise, Sidney Bull, and other great Native American chiefs say the best. The white man made as many promises, but he only kept but one. He promised to take our land, and he took it. Thanksgiving has long been celebrated in the White House, but in addition to giving thanks, the president had a long history with the holiday, which is on the fourth Thursday of November, which was fixed by George Washington in 1789. and designated on November 26th, the People's Day of Thanksgiving. This also marked the first celebration of the holiday during the Constitution in 1863 by Abraham Lincoln and Paris Americans to recognize Thursday of November. In recent years, an other myth has surfaced about... about Black Friday. An 1,800 southern plantation owners could buy enslaved workers at a discount on the day after Thanksgiving. Smaller plantation owners did not have enough slaves to harvest a field, so they turned to the large plantation owners for help. By using the large plantation slaves in return, some of their property. This happened the day after Thanksgiving. This was the reason, though, what Black Friday was about. Now they have commercialized Black Friday. They commercialize Christmas. I'm out. I'll talk about Christmas later. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is George Roach. Is George Roach with us? Okay. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. The Bible. for the word of the Lord is right. He loveth righteousness. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the hosts of them by the breath of his mouth. Let all the earth fear the Lord, lest all of the inhabitants stand in awe of him. For he spoke, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood fast. During this period of giving thanks to the Creator, the psalmist reminds us of the moral factor in all of our doings. A king, he notes, is not saved by his great army, for might grows for those who stand for right. His right should be mightier. However, it is essential for the mighty to be right, for the eyes of the Lord is upon them. My mind quickly recollects the trip to Springfield last week by a group of the ministers for manufacturing of whom I am a part from all over the state. pressing our claim for support for manufacturing and economic development initiatives that I shared with some of you. The event was historic, enlightening, and productive. Our organization, Progressive West Rockford, pressed its request for $25 million in state funds for Westside Rockford development, and the response was most encouraging. Now, to move from rhetoric to positive action, which means release of the invested funds. For surely the war horse is in vain against those who trust and hope in the Creator. The ultimate thanksgiving. These few words from the Black National Anthem. God of our weary years, God of our silent years, Thou who has brought us thus far on the way, Thou who by Thy might has led us into the light, Forever ever keep us in that path, we pray. As our feet drunk with the wine of this world, we stray from the path where we met thee. May we forever stand true to our native land, true to our God. Amen. Thank you. Is Mr. George Roach with us? Not seeing him, we'll move on to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Planning and Development Committee, item number one, the committee recommends approval of the proposed Enterprise Zone number one boundary amendment to delete parcels. Alderman Frost, I think you were going to mention something at this time. Delay this matter over. Thank you. We have one alderman who would like to lay this over. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Item's been laid over. Thank you so much. And then item number two, the committee recommends approval of the proposed Enterprise Zone Number 1 boundary amendment to add parcels. Alderman Frost? I'd also like to make a motion to lay this over as it goes in conjunction with item number one. We have a motion. We have a second. So it's been laid over. All right. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Trena. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, we have five items. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the final plat of Green Meadow Estate Subdivision. Item two, the committee recommends approval of the final PUD plat of Coleman Yard Subdivision. Item three, committee recommends approval of the 2022 to 2023 contract between the City of Rockford and Winnebago County Health Department for Tobacco Enforcement Program. 2. Conduct compliance monitoring checks. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 4. The committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances Chapter 29, Vehicles for Hire. Article 4, Record Rotation List for Record Service Requests. Section 29-176, Record Charges on Police Calls. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, item 5707, Harrison Avenue. The Zoning Board of Appeals recommends approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 707 Harrison Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So, counsel, we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Thank you. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent, thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $14,782,081.70 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on November 14, 2022. number two the committee recommends approval of the second amendment to the purchase agreement with jay jeffers related to the city-owned barbara coleman campus to extend the due diligence period from december 1 2022 until march 1 2023 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number three, the committee recommends approval of the amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Park District for Harmon Park. The amendment reflects the park district receiving funding and desire to facilitate improvements to the park, including a multi-use perimeter path, path lighting, and fitness equipment stations. The park district will manage and administer the project. There is no cost to the city for this amendment. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of a letter of understanding between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois Department of Transportation for Alpine Road reconstruction. The letter of understanding outlines the funding and jurisdictional transfer for each agency in the Alpine Road reconstruction project. The City is not anticipating any local matching costs resulting from this L.O.U. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the 2022 property tax levy ordinance in the amount of $55,623,392 for the levies in the corporate, police protection, police pension, fire protection, fire pension, street and bridge judgments, public library, public library maintenance of buildings. the only municipal retirement unemployment compensation workers compensation and auditing funds the final city levy amount will be approximately 48 million two hundred and forty three thousand three hundred ninety dollars the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number six the committee recommends approval of the 2022 property tax abatements for 2022 the debt service levy is twelve million four hundred and thirty seven thousand two hundred eight dollars and will be abated in its entirety and The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number seven the committee recommends approval of 2023 budget and appropriation ordinance The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number eight the committee recommends approval of the general wage increase for non-represented employees the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Number nine that can you recommends approval of the 2023 fee schedule and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank You alderman frost so council we have nine items before us is there any discussion on those nine items I? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Lugeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to officers' reports. Alderman Frost, I believe, had a report. Thank you. Your Honor and council members, on November 10th, The city of Rockford lost a titan named Carl Scandrolli. Carl Scandrolli was involved in this family's business, Scandrolli Construction, for his entire life. He was involved in many of the large projects in Rockford, including UPS, the federal courthouse, the Lowe's building, the airport, many churches and schools, and the Winnebago County Justice Center. I had the privilege of knowing Carl for a long time, and he was a mentor to me for many years as he was a mentor to many. He always exemplified his actions through hard work, being generous to so many in the community, and for being stern and fair. And so I would just like to take a moment as I recognize Carl Scandrolli. Thank you, Your Honor. Other officers' reports? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I did have the privilege of attending the ceremony for the fireman promotions. It's kind of always exciting to see the families come together, children. I think we had some 18 of our firefighters promoted from their positions of authority in the department. I just wanted to say publicly congratulations to each and every one of them. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Bond. Thank you, Mayor. I also last week had the privilege of attending the Career Online High School graduation and that is a program of the, operated by the Rockford Public Library that addresses a gap in our community between high school dropouts and people who would like to attain GEDs or high school diplomas. This program awards an actual high school diploma And it is worth noting that it is tuition free for those students who are accepted and it also operates without tax support because it is entirely charitable funded. Besides the diplomas, students have the option of being issued certificates in 10 different areas of fields of employment. And that program is made possible by a number of financial supporters including the Provenzano family and the workplace of course workplace being a business located in the 14th Ward and in addition to that it's just it was a great it's a great ceremony there's 17 graduates so you know they have a plan to scale up from there this is I believe the third graduating class and But it was a small class, but no lack of enthusiasm at all by the students and a really well done ceremony by the Rockford Public Library. So I want to publicly acknowledge that and thank everybody who's involved with making that program possible. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Yeah, Your Honor, I just wanted to share again. I know there were people here that talked a little bit about the small business component to our community, but I really would like to get families out to stroll on state this week, this upcoming weekend. If you live under a rock. You may not know that it's happening, but it's been going on for over 10 years now, I think. It's brought national attention to the city of Rockford. So take your family out. Enjoy the festivities. But also consider purchasing from some of our local small businesses. And the reason I push that is because, you know, the Amazons of the world, the Walmarts and all the giant companies are always going to be there to get their money. But the small businesses are really the backbone of this community and consider making a purchase from those small businesses. Thank you. Other woman, McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would, I don't know if you know, but I received a call from someone in Chicago. They heard on the news that there's an increase in the coronavirus and the state of, within the state of Illinois, the city of Rockford supposedly has the highest. So I don't know if you know, I would like to know for sure. And secondly, I'm sorry, that's it. Thank you. Certainly, thank you. I do know our numbers have increased As many have across the state. I don't know offhand if we have the highest in the state We have our teams are in direct communication and maybe chief Pankow wants to illuminate that but I do know our teams talk to The three major health systems as well as Winnebago County Health Department, but she Pankow. Do you have anything you want to add to that? I Sure, so we do have a standing call with all three health systems as well as the Health Department That call was today And we are at a higher transmission rate in the county However, I don't know that we're being identified as the highest The transmission rate has has increased from the previous month. Thank you. Thank you other officers reports alderman Durkee and A follow-up to that how is transmission rate measured? What does that mean? We know incidents and prevalence But I don't know what transmission rate means chief Pankow So I would have to consult with the Illinois Department of Public Health. That's who gives us the information locally to the health department, and they are the lead agency on those calls. I could certainly get you that information, but those are statistics that are gathered from, like I said, the Illinois Department of Public Health as well as Winnebago County Health Department. Sure. Just to follow up, I noticed, well, just a suspicion, you know, there's statistics, there's lies, damn lies and statistics. So we used to get incidents and prevalence numbers from the health department. And we also get the unfortunate folks that land up in a hospital and succumb to COVID. But now I'm starting to see transmission rate, and I have no idea how you measure the rate of how's that done? So that's why I asked, because I don't know what that means. I'm a physician. I haven't heard that, really, how that measured. So we'll get that out to everyone via email so that you can have it and everyone else can have it. Any other reports? Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you. I just want to wish everyone a very happy Thanksgiving Thank you any other reports alderman to work. I just like to second alderman Frost's comments regarding Carl Scandrolli again. I had the privilege to know him as well and what a great man he was and Mayor you and I were at a ribbon-cutting on Saturday and good to see another small business come into downtown and but also in addition to that commending urban equities and their work on that building at church and jefferson now fully occupied with their lofts above and fully occupied in storefronts so that was good to see that and Good to be there. Absolutely. Very neat store and beautiful building. Any other reports? The only thing I'd mention is just to follow up on Alderman Rose's comments about Stroll-on-State. For those watching or those here that want to know, it's 2 p.m. to 9 p.m. if you want more information you can go to strohanstate.com i would like to say a sincere thank you to the convention visitors bureau i would like to thank our public works team our police team our fire department's team as well as all the sponsors and volunteers that make that a possible free event for anyone who would like to attend with that i will continue to move forward All of the appointments laid over, and there are seven of them, do not come up until November 23rd. So that would be our next city council meeting. So we will go to motions and resolutions and go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one under Planning and Development Committee, the committee recommends approval of the creation of a TIF commercial and industrial rehabilitation program. Thank you. Thank you. So council we have that one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item other woman? McNeely, thank you. I'm confused as to the creation of a TIF commercial industrial rehab program So maybe staff can explain to me what this is. Yeah, we are taking several TIF districts throughout the community those that have a positive fund for fund balance and providing an incentive to businesses in those areas to provide them up to $25,000 of a match for exterior improvements and or ADA compliance improvements that would in the ADA would be interior improvements. So if someone, Tom Shoes, wanted to put $5,000 towards their exterior, the TIF that has a positive balance would match them with $5,000. Do we know what the total amount that's available for this program? Director Franzen? There are seven TIFs identified. It would be $150,000. Okay, thank you very much. Any other questions? Alderman Thunberg? I'd just like to clarify I had a conversation with... Carl on this. It specifies that it's available for commercial and industrial businesses, not available for residential or non-profit, but under the TIF commercial and industrial rehabilitation program, occluded properties, there are a number of residential addresses under there. So I'd just like to clarify for the public, who I'm sure read through this, that it does not, even if there are residential addresses included in this, that they're not included in the agenda. Director Fansen. That is correct, thank you. So as part of the packet, there is an entire parcel list identifying every parcel that is within each of the seven TIFs that is identified for the program. But you are correct. They also need to meet the qualification for the program, being primarily a commercial or industrial use. So home-based businesses or residential business would not be applicable in this case. Thank you. Any other questions, comments? Yes. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next, we'll move on to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. I don't have any items, Your Honor. Oh, I'm so sorry. Okay. I'm sorry alderman frost for finance and personnel I'm more than happy to hear some of mine just making sure everyone's awake no I just make a mistake there are 18 items tonight your honor so if anyone needs an intermission break you just let us know Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the Davis Park boat dock improvements to show Sturm and Stunn in the amount of $461,227. The project is estimated to be completed by June 2023. The funding sources Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Grant funds. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for portable radios for fire department to Motorola Solutions in the amount of $141,994.56. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan Fund. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract with the Harlem Roscoe Fire Protection District for a 2007 Alexis Rescue apparatus in the amount of $55,000. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for water treatment plant 42 and 36, filter media replacement to water well solutions of Elburn in the amount of $681,445. The project is estimated to be completed by July 2023. The funding source is the water replacement improvement account. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for citywide fueling to Kelly Williamson Mobile Fuel of Rockford for an estimated annual value of $1.8 million. The contract duration is two years. with three one-year extension options. The funding sources various departmental operating budgets. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the award of the RFP for HUD subaward grant agreements for emergency solutions grant to the Institute for Community Alliances in the amount of $30,000 for homeless management information system. Carpenter's Place, which is $35,000 for the emergency Shelter operations and services and shelter care ministries, which is thirty nine thousand seven hundred and ninety dollars for emergency shelter operations services The contract duration is one year the funding sources the HUD ESG number seven the committee recommends approval of the award the contract extension for the rental of traffic control devices to traffic control and protections of Bartlett for an estimated annual value of two hundred thousand dollars based on unit pricing the contract ratios from January 1 2023 through December 31 2023 the funding sources various depart departmental operating budgets and Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the award for joint purchasing contract for rock salt, bulk road salt, the compass minerals of Overland Park, Kansas for an estimated amount of $1,859,544 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the street division operating budget. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the well number five, I'm sorry, 45 reservoir replacement to Strand Associates of Madison, Wisconsin, the amount of $132,000. The project is estimated to be completed in 2023. The funding source is the water replacement and improvement account. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the downtown streetscape improvements to HR Green of McHenry in the amount of $133,317.05. The project is estimated to be completed in 2026. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement. the 2023 through 2024 bridge inspections to HR Green and McHenry in the amount of two hundred thousand eight dollars the contract relations the 2023 2024 the funding sources the motor fuel tax funds number twelve the committee recommends approval of the resolution approving the appropriation of the motor fuel tax funds to be used for professional services on the 2023 2024 bridge inspection program in the amount of two hundred and ten thousand dollars Number 13, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the 15th Avenue Bridge replacement phase two to Crawford Murphy and Tilly in the amount of $1,361,036. The contract duration is 2023 through 2024. The funding source is the MFT funds. 14. The Committee recommends approval of the supplemental resolution approving the appropriation of additional $1 million of the motor fuel tax funds to be used for Phase II preliminary engineering services for the 15th Avenue bridge replacement over the Rock River. The total amended MFT authorization is $2 million. Number 15, the committee recommends approval of the resolution approving the appropriation of the motor fuel tax funds to be used for the city's streetlight electric energy, citywide salt expenditures, and other general maintenance items in the amount of $5,494,544.04. 16. The committee recommends approval of a change order for the bridge program management in various engineering-related services for 2020-2024 to H.R. Green. The original amount was $90,000. The change order amount is $90,000 for an amended total of $180,000. This change order is needed due to the unforeseen services with significant costs on this contract, including the addition of two bridges. in into the city's inventory that required additional inspection services and the cedar street bridge over kent creek that was low posted and needed immediate action to address the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax number 17 the community recommends approval of the change order for the church street and main street two-way conversion supplemental to trans services corporation the original amount was 799 243 dollars and 56 cents and the change order is 361 thousand five hundred and sixty five dollars for an amendment total of one million one hundred and fifty thousand eight hundred and eight dollars and fifty six cents The change order is recommended due to the need for the right-of-way land acquisition for the project. Additional work included appraisal services, review appraisal, land acquisition negotiations, title commitment, and right-of-way plats at approximately 30 parcels along the corridor. This additional work included surveying design for drainage plans, ADA ramps, and maintenance of traffic plans. The funding sources, the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number 18 the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the fiscal year 2023 Illinois Department transportation sustained traffic enforcement program and grant award in the amount of eighty three thousand five hundred and seventy five dollars and eighty cents The grant does not require a cost match the grant terms from October 1 2022 to September 20 2023 the funding will allow the police department to conduct high visibility enforcement and strategy implementation Aimed at saving lives and preventing injuries by reducing traffic crashes. Thank you items Alright, we got 18 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 18 items alderman Beach? Oh, thank you I have a couple of comments if you don't mind I talked a little bit on committee about the price per ton of what it is today What it was a year ago and yet I don't think I got an answer that I really wanted to know and that's all the various little cities around Rockford and the county and And are we being charged based on our population? And if that's true, it's the county being charged on the base of population, which we really represent pretty close to 60%. And so I'm trying to figure out how we get the lowest rate Do the other small cities around get higher rates than we do and is it possible that we could ever put our whole? county together and buy one bulk rate and Save everyone some money. That's just one thing that bothers me like to know that So we are charged per ton not based on population We do join with other communities and if you recall last week I believe it was This year it's like $84 or $82 a year prior. It was $56 or $54 a year before that. It was $82. It just fluctuates. But we are getting the lowest that we possibly can get. Okay. All right. So, okay. All right. The other question then that comes to mind is number 15. I'm not sure I understand that last question. Comment there says appropriation to city streetlight energy and citywide salt expenditures that phrase I'm not sure I understand which the city white salt expenditures, okay? Mr. Hankins or director Haggerty Alderman Beach this is this is a resolution that's required by I dot if we choose to use Motor fuel tax funds to pay for these items So this would be the this resolution would be council authorizing the use of up to that dollar amount Based on what we actually spend on those items in the next fiscal year so the price of salt that we use and purchase is From another fund could be reimbursed from this expenditure this We budget for the use of motor fuel tax funds to buy salt already. It's already in the budget Your honor just one less. They want to just say again my my concern about the two-way conversion on Church Street That runs in front by the Metro Center. I'm really concerned about that and As we hype up what we do in this community the traffic that's coming down I've just done I've been with the director of public works. We've driven there I've given some other ideas on how we can go around that and I'm okay with the two-way conversions everything else right there I really believe it ought to be one way To keep room for trucks in and out and for the traffic to move. I don't see it. I makes Rockford look good if during these events we have to put security out there, policemen out there to direct traffic. I mean, we haven't had that problem when it's been one way. So I want to support this. What you're asking here, but I want to support it with the understanding that I'm really concerned if we just look at that once more time Or twice more because it really can be a problem down there. Thank you other Discussion items or concerns on the 18 items before us alderman rose yeah, just real quick on item one is the Award of bid for social and so is that the lowest bid? Okay? Yes, I Thank you. Any other discussion or questions on the 18 items before you? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Vugerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Is that 17 or 7? 17. Alderman Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Items 1 through 16 14 eyes item number 17 11 eyes 3 nose item 18 14 eyes Excellent. Thank you. Next. We'll go to new business the both the items under planning and development have been laid over So we'll go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Trina. Thank you runner Three items Item 2, an ordinance approving the 2022-2023 contract between the City of Rockford and Winnebago County Health Department for tobacco enforcement program to conduct compliance monitoring checks. Item 2, an ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances Chapter 29, Vehicles for Hire Act. Article 4, RECR rotation list for RECR service requests, section 29-176, RECR charges on police calls. And lastly, item three, an ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 707 Harrison Avenue in Power Solutions is the applicant. Thank you. There's three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. 14 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to alderman frost for finance and personnel committee. Thank you Number one is an ordinance approving the second amendment to the purchase agreement with j jeffers Related to the city on barbara coleman campus to extend the due diligence period from december 1 2020 through 2 until march 1 2023 Number two is an ordinance approving an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and rockford park district for harman park There is no cost to the City for this amendment. Item 3 is an ordinance approving a letter of understanding between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois Department of Transportation for Alpine Road Reconstruction. The LOU outlines the funding and jurisdictional transfer for each agency in the Alpine Road Reconstruction project. The City is not anticipating any local costs resulting from this LOU. Number four is an ordinance approving the 2022 property tax levy ordinance in the amount of $55,623,392 for the levies in the corporate police protection, police pension, fire protection, fire pension, street and bridge judgments, public library, public library maintenance of buildings, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers' compensation, and auditing funds. The final city levy will be approximately $48,243,392. Number five is an ordinance approving the 2022 property tax abatements for 2022. The debt service levy is $12,437,208 and will be abated in its entirety. Number six is an ordinance approving the 2023 budget and appropriation ordinance. Number seven is an ordinance approving a general wage increase for nonrepresented employees. And number eight is an ordinance approving the 2023 fee schedule. I place these eight matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Is there any discussion on those eight items that are before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie I am number 113 eyes 1 no items 2 through 8 14 eyes Excellent all of those pass before I ask for a motion to adjourn just want to say it's sincere thank you to director Kerry Haggerty your entire finance team you had just an amazing amount of work as you do each year with this but also with an entirely new system and so just sincere thank you to you and all your team and to all of you I hope you have an absolutely wonderful Thanksgiving and is there a motion to adjourn we have a motion we have a second No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a great night. Thanks for using WebEx.