Greening, Toomber, Frost, Urbans, Thompson-Kelly, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Back, McNeely, Chiarelli. Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening and I have a chair. So first up we have a new committee of reports and we'll move to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Chiarelli.
 I have one new committee report. It's for 307 South Main Street. The Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant, a C4 mixed-use zoning district at 307 South Main Street. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place that up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Brainy. Thank you.
 Toomer. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Ten ayes. Excellent. So the item moves forward. Next up we have officers' reports. Is there any reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Just wishing everyone a happy Thanksgiving. You as well. Thank you.
 Alderman Rose and then Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Just a reminder that we are having a Democratic caucus after the meeting over in conference room B, which is right next door here for the public that can attend.
 Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. I want to announce that Trajectory, which is our solar company, will be holding an open meeting for the public December the 12th from 6 to 8 p.m. at District 1 Police Headquarters on West State Street. Sorry, I had my other notes. Sorry, Your Honor. Want me to come back to you? Yes, please. Alderman Toonberg.
 Thank you, Mayor. I've had a few inquiries on the leaf pickup, on lawn pickup, and wondering if there would be a consideration on a possible extension of one week. I know we did it last year, so just wanted to throw that out there. Alderman Beck says he did have a conversation with the
 My liaison with the Rock River Disposal just recently about that, and he said that they definitely are going to extend it if they can, if the weather cooperates, because they'd still have an awful lot of collecting to do because of the early snows. So he had said, you know, it definitely would be going. Right now, the last week would be the first week of December, right?
 which is next week, but that, you know, if they could extend another couple weeks, they would love to. So, yeah. Depends on the weather. Real quick, the staff now will come right back to you. Mr. Cagnone? No.
 alderman backstage want to make sure everyone aware that it was december 5th is the last day for scheduled pickup for yard waste will be if you've had conversations with our contractor we'll be happy to have uh director franson's team loop back and see what the status is um it is very much dependent on weather and we did have some you know a few weeks there when it was uh the weather didn't cooperate with us thank you alderman that's it i think uh many of our residents would appreciate a
 One to two week extension if we can even get it even further, but I won't press my luck Thank you alderman Thompson Kelly. Did you have another item? It was just the garbage delay for because of the holidays that garbage on Thursday will be delayed one day Because of the holidays that was it. Thank you alderman. Can you honest? Yes, they are Sixth Street neighborhood association wants to thank you for showing up and speaking at their meeting it was very informational and
 Thank you. Seeing no other reports, we'll move on. The appointments are laid over until at least December 18th.
 So we'll move to motions and resolutions and under finance and personnel committee alderman back. Thank your honor We have a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code 2020 general maintenance for streetlight electric energy citywide salt expenditures general maintenance and biennial bridge inspection in the amount of four million five hundred thirty thousand seventy one dollars and eighty eight cents places up for passage Thank you. You have one item before you is there any discussion? I
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Brainy. Tunberg? Aye. Ross? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Chiavelli? Aye. 11 ayes.
 Thank you. The item passes. Next, we'll move to new business. Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant at 307 South Main Street. The applicant is Sisters on Main, Inc. I place that ordinance up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, sir.
 Toomber, Ross, Irvins, Thompson, Kelly, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely, 11 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Have a wonderful Thanksgiving.