Shirely.
 13 present. Excellent, so we have a quorum. Under new committee reports, we have one item under finance and personnel, item number C1, committee recommends approval to fiscal year 2021 to 2025 capital improvements program the CIP, is there a motion to approve? Mr. Hervey? We have a motion, we have a second, is there any discussion?
 Yes, Your Honor.
 Thank you. I had quite a lengthy discussion today with the Director of Public Works, our traffic, and our engineer regarding my concern that I raised last week about the traffic configuration, et cetera, from the one-way portion on Church down to Cedar. I think the conversation we had was good. I think we made progress. I'm still here.
 I THINK OTHER MEETINGS ARE BEING PLANNED RIGHT NOW AS WE SPEAK. I WANT TO THANK THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS FOR OFFERING THAT TIME. I HAD MIXED EMOTIONS ABOUT SUPPORTING THIS BECAUSE IT WASN'T COMPLETED, BUT BASED ON WHAT I'M TOLD,
 I'M GOING TO BE ABLE TO REVISIT THIS AT LEAST ANOTHER TIME OR TWO BEFORE ANY FINAL DETERMINATIONS WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO OUR MONEY WAS SPENT. I'D LIKE TO JUST GET THAT CLEARED BY THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS TO MAKE SURE WHAT I'M SAYING IS WHAT WAS PART OF THAT CONVERSATION.
 Yes, Mayor, thank you. And to just confirm, Alderman Beach, you know, right now the CIP, you know, programs construction of Church and Main Street two-way conversion in 2023. Right now, as you and I discussed and the team discussed,
 this morning, you know, we are actively engaged in preliminary engineering. I think a lot of the discussion we had around, you know, how this project will interface with, you know, the delivery access and logistics to the BMO Harris Bank Center, as well as how it will interface with our parking system is the very appropriate time to be having these conversations. So hopefully we can set up a few follow-up conversations soon.
 address some of the concerns and kind of work on engineering solutions that this team can kind of put forward. Thank you.
 Before I take any other questions, I just need to make a public service announcement and a reminder, which I should have done at the beginning of this meeting. Just a reminder to the public that this meeting is being held remotely because it's not prudent or practical to hold a meeting in public due to the elevated spread of COVID-19. And with that, Alderman Hurd.
 With regard to Alderman, the conversation Alderman Beach just discussed, and I know that whole issue of one way, two way at that part of, I believe it's a church or court or both, has been up in the air for a long time. Can we get that solidified before we pay for engineering to do it?
 way X, and then we have to turn around and do it Y? And are either of those under state jurisdiction, such that we have to get IDOT's additional requirements for engineering and design work? Dr. Saunders? Yes.
 I'll certainly allow Tim Higgins to jump in if I miss anything, but Alderman Herby, to your question, can we solidify what the ultimate design would be prior to spending significant amount of money on the design engineering? That's exactly what we're doing right now as part of the preliminary engineering. We've had pretty significant stakeholder engagement about some of the different alternates, the different alignments that that route may look like. I think we've gotten a consensus
 in terms of what that alignment looks like further north, but this is kind of the final step in solidifying that southern portion. Yes, Church Street is currently under state jurisdiction as well as portions of Main Street. And as part of this project, we're looking to consolidate that state road onto one road and that's being Church Street. All right, thank you. Any other discussion?
 And McNeely, it looks like you're talking, but you're on mute. I have my hand up. I don't know if you can see that. Alderman McNeely, I can't see it. Unfortunately, WebEx has done something with it. So please, floor is yours.
 FOR PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR, I DID SEND OUT AN EMAIL LAST WEEK REGARDING ADDING ON SOME STREETS THAT WERE NOT ON YOUR PRESENTATION. SO I WOULD LIKE TO GET AN ANSWER THAT THOSE INDIVIDUAL STREETS CAN BE ADDED IF WE VOTE IN THE POSITIVE FOR THIS TONIGHT.
 Portland, I would apologize. I don't remember receiving your email, so I'd have to look back at that. Do you know exactly what streets you're referring to? There were about four streets. I had on their school street what you're doing part of in order to get to that turnaround. I was supposed to...
 to the bridge so school street johnston um central and maybe rockton i think those were the four mcneely uh this is tim hinkins here uh the email came to me
 just to let you know, and I did receive it. However, we didn't change the document that's in front of council right now. That would have to be something, my understanding would have to be something that is a proposed amendment by council tonight for us to change the document. In that case, Mr. Mayor, I'd like to make an amendment to the CIP. Okay. What would you like that amendment to be?
 for the amendment to include the following streets um central avenue school street going west from from north main west to the end of school street at springfield
 And rocked in from Jefferson street, going north. Street, I believe. Would you like to take out. Got any streets. Well, we will only have a, my understanding is that we have a finite amount of dollars. So if we add something in, we would then have to take something out of equivalent value.
 Is that accurate? Mr. Saunders? That is correct. Right now our CAP is balanced for all intents and purposes over the next five years, each year over year.
 me adding to this. These are streets that are either local or neighborhood streets or low-level collector streets. They could be very prime candidates in one of our citywide programs that don't specifically list those named streets in them, but something staff can look to repair next year, but at least in the next few years within the program. Currently,
 Alderman McNeely, how does that sound to you? These are streets that I've been talking with public works now for several years and so I'm trying to get them included. I don't recall all the streets or the different items that were under physical proposal, capital proposal.
 That we went over right now. So I'm trying to get these streets on so I can't tell you what streets need to come off. So, in this case, if I can't get those on, then I just will not support the capital improvement. Okay, is there any other discussion? I just want to, I guess I'm assuming that. Yeah, thank you.
 For discussion, can you please call the roll? Thank you. All right. Timber. All right. Thompson Kelly. Hoffman I. I.
 Thank you.
 Alderman Chiarelli. Aye. One no.
 Just two quick things. One, to Mr. Saunders and Mr. Hinkins, could you make sure that we connect with Alderman McNeely in the coming days to see what we can do to get those streets included in that citywide package? And secondly, a big thank you to both of you and your entire teams for the amount of work that you all put into the capital improvement plan, and not just putting in all the
 all together making all the math work but working uh with all the aldermen myself and all the meetings that you've uh went through so thoughtfully so just a sincere thank you to all uh next up we'll go to motions and resolutions and we have nothing under a or b so we'll go to c which is coming in some personnel uh committee and we have uh
 Two items. One is the committee recommends approval of the resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code 2021 general maintenance requires authorization for use of motor fuel tax funds in the amount of $4,450,071.88. And the second item is committee recommends approval of the resolution for extension of non-home rule sales tax for infrastructure improvement. All right.
 Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Aye. Lozerman? Stumbert? Aye. Brass? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Rose is an aye. Beach? Aye.
 Aye. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. McNeely. Shirelli.
 Aye. 13 aye. And I'll just read in these two other items that are appointments laid over before we go to office. They're not up for passage. You have until December 23rd, 2020 approval, but they're all going to be laid over until then. Sorry. Appointment of Crystal Saltel to the community action agency board to fill a vacant private sector position. She'll serve a three year term.
 Appointment of Ryan Curry to the Community Action Agency Board to fill the Boone County Public Sector position. And the public sector positions are appointed annually. So just have those two in front of you. Next, we have officers' reports. I would just say that...
 I think, well, I know this is alderman Charlie's last evening with us for a Monday night city council meeting and. It's really been a pleasure to work with you as an alderman and now, and even better to call you and Connie from appreciation for.
 The work that you've done that people see every day, but also the work that you do behind the scenes to bring a lot of us together. And I think you're going to do an exceptional job as when they go on each room and just want to say, thank you for your tireless attention to the city of Rockford. And it pains me to say it, but to the county as well. So, thank you.
 I will start Alderman Trelley. I'm going to do you a favor that if you wanted to sign along, you could before we get to Alderman Durkee, but I'm going to go flip order and start with you on your last meeting. So Alderman Trelley. Thank you, Mayor. Your words are very kind and I feel the same way about you and your family. Tonight is a very sad night for me and also a day
 HAPPY NIGHT. HAPPY BECAUSE IT'S MY WIFE'S BIRTHDAY AND TONIGHT SHE'S THE SAME AGE AS ME AGAIN. HAPPY FOR THAT. BUT, YOU KNOW, HONESTLY, MAYOR AND THE CITY COUNCIL, THIS HAS BEEN THE MOST WONDERFUL EIGHT YEARS OF MY LIFE. CONNECTING WITH SUCH AN HONOR TO DEAL WITH ELECTED OFFICIALS
 THIS CAPACITY. I'VE LEARNED SO MUCH FROM EVERYONE OF YOU SITTING HERE TONIGHT AND YOUR STAFF, ALL THE CITY EMPLOYEES THAT HAVE HELPED ME ALONG THE WAY THROUGH THESE EIGHT YEARS, AND IT JUST AMAZES ME HOW WELCOMING YOU ARE.
 Your staff and the city has been to me, um, not being a political animal before running for Alderman. Actually my first race I lost to Dr. Durkee, but I won't hold that against him. He's a wonderful guy. Um, but, uh, it's just been amazing experience. I could go on and on like a two bird, but I won't do that to everybody. But, um,
 Speaking to my wife this morning, having coffee with her on her birthday, wishing her a happy birthday, Connie, I said, in your wildest dreams, do you ever believe I would be an Alderman in the city of Roanoke?
 Now, I hate to break it to you, but you're not in one of those dreams. You're a day off in the right direction. But, again, I want to thank everybody. You guys have all been wonderful. I'm going to do what I promised to do is –
 Reading control of the brand and Winnebago County and really make the county proud our residents with the greater cooperation and greater communication with the city. That's the utmost priority of mine to improve those communications and relationships. So it's a welcoming to get some real work done in this community. So. Like I said, I can go on and on, but thank you to everybody. You guys have been great. This is not a goodbye.
 IT'S CALLED IN ITALIAN, WHICH MEANS WHEN WE MEET AGAIN. SO THANK YOU TO EVERYBODY. GOD LOVES YOU. WE'LL GET THROUGH THIS TERRIBLE TIME WE'RE GOING THROUGH. IT WILL BE A NEW DAY ON DECEMBER 7TH WHEN I GET SWORN AT, OR I MEAN SWORN IN. SO HOPEFULLY IT ALL WORKS OUT FOR EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. THANK YOU, ALBERTO AND CHARLIE. THERE'S NO WAY THAT KHANI IS AS OLD AS YOU ARE.
 Alderman McNeely, we'll go right to you.
 Thank you. Joe, I will miss you. I certainly have enjoyed having you to the left of me to calm me down sometimes and to support me and whatever amendments or whatever I was bringing forward. I truly will miss you, but I will come over to see you so you can come back and tell all the aldermen they should be nice to aldermen at Billy. So you take care. I wish you the very best.
 Thank you. You too.
 Thank you. Thank you all. Alderman Hanley. Yeah, so happy birthday to Connie. And Joe, yeah, there's so much that I could say right now. Thank you. You've been such a tremendous help to me. I rely on you so much, and I'm not going to lose your number. I know how to find you. So, yes, like you said, this is not goodbye. We'll see you soon. So thank you, Joe. Thank you.
 IT WAS A PLEASURE TO WORK WITH JOE, BEING MY COSEN REGULATION CHAIRMAN. A LOT FROM JOE. AND I WISH HIM A LOT OF LUCK OVER THERE, AND I'LL BE OVER THERE TO SEE YOU, JOE. GOOD LUCK. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU.
 Still muted. There you go. Oh, I said, I had some comments in my opening prayer about Joe.
 And I mean that with all my heart. I wish him well. I pray Godspeed as he takes on additional responsibility. We will miss him around the council. He certainly has been one that brings consensus anytime that's possible. We love you, Joe. We love your family. And for Connie, too, for putting up with you for all these years.
 So I'd like to have another comment before I stop, Your Honor. I'd like to ask our public works director just to briefly, this letter that's gone out to the city regarding the water main warranty program.
 and explain to the people that it is legitimate, it is backed by the city, and let him kind of give that endorsement. Will you allow that to happen, Your Honor? Dr. Saunders? Thank you, Mayor, and all the beach. Thanks for the opportunity to speak. So, yes, just wanted to kind of...
 We've gotten a couple of questions, a couple of emails sent to our offices just asking, hey, I received this letter in the mail. It seems really, really great regarding internal and external service line warranty programs.
 But the common theme seems to be, you know, is this legitimate and is this something that the city, you know, is in support of and, you know, we keep applying yes in short, the service line protection program is legitimate. The city of Rockford has partnered with Service Line Warranties of America to offer this program to our residents. If you remember back in July, city council approved a marketing agreement with Service Line Warranties of America,
 all in to each of the three marketing campaigns each year to our customers and our residents. The program is completely voluntary. It's being made available to the City of Rockford residents at an affordable monthly rate. So if you remember right, there were several options that residents could select from. One was for the
 the water service line protection, one was for the sewer line protection, and then one was for internal plumbing protection. Each of those has different monthly rates, but just for ease of numbers, that water service line protection is $5.75 a month. And that protection program covers up
 to an $8,500 event. So if in the middle of the night their private service line was to break, they would be able to call the 24-7 hotline. Service Line Warranties of America would pick that phone up 365 days a year and would dispatch a locally-
 Vetted plumbing contractor to coordinate repair. So really great program home serve, I believe is serving more than 2.7M customers nationwide. So they serve a multitude of different markets. And we're certainly excited to be able to extend that to our residents in rockford. So I'd be happy to answer any questions if you need any help getting any messages out to your constituents. But yes, thank you on the beach for the opportunity to speak.
 Thank you, Director Saunders. And Alderman Mills. I have one quick announcement that I wanted to talk in regards to Joe leaving us. So real quick, I just wanted to say thank you to Rabbi Dina Wing, Kristen Kirk, Manuel Salgado, Vicki Fogle, the Ninth Ward, Barb Chilly, and George Galraff.
 They were all able to come together in developing the hashtag decorate 815 program that we're doing for the holiday season. We're essentially...
 They're challenging residents to decorate their houses to bring more cheer to the Rockford area and. All you have to do to participate is decorate your house. In holiday fashion, you, you can take a picture and pass tag it with.
 Hashtag decorate 815 and that will enter you into a drawing for a $250 cash prize sponsored by ComEd. And just wanted to say thank you to those people for coming up with that idea. And I hope it brings about some.
 Uh, holiday cheer for our area residents, so just wanted to get that out to the public, but on a 2nd note, I just wanted to say, you know, in working with Joe, he's 1 of the people that I look up to as a. Put in a lot of public service, we've done a lot of meetings with you mayor and and.
 You know, the team of alderman, but it's nice to know that the county is going to have someone who is going to have the city in mind, but also. Just overall have all of the residents. In mind when making decisions and so kudos to Joe on your election and like you said, we'll hope to work with you in the future. Thank you.
 You're muted. Thank you to Joe for the help that he's given me, but I'm not going to miss him because he's just moved on and he'll be calling my husband now instead of me. But as you would expect, I believe Joe doesn't get sworn in until December 3rd, but I happen to know that he's already been hard at work making changes. And I think we've got some good times ahead at the County. Thank you, Joe.
 Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, if you're with us, I don't believe you are. Yes, I am. Oh, there you are. Okay, sorry. I really enjoyed working with you. I think you're the only Republican that's been very nice to all the Democrats. So it was fun, enjoyed it, and you go to the future. Thank you.
 I'm sorry, Alderman Irvin, I don't believe has joined us yet. Alderman Herbie. First, I want to just say, Joe, many years ago, your dad helped my dad get his tailor shop going. And...
 Did some things that may help my dad's business grow tremendously. So when I finally met you, I think I called you Vince for, what, four months? And you always took it as the compliment that it was. But I knew you came from good stock. Then I met your wife.
 And I knew she had done a yeoman's job of keeping you there. But you have just been an all-around great person to get to know for the entire city council. Seriously, I think you had a calming effect on a lot of us. Thank you.
 Except Chad. I mean, he just goes and goes and goes. So, you know, there's nothing you can do about that. But I do want to say I wish you all the best. And I'm looking forward to better working relationships, a better working relationship between the city and the county. So good luck, but arrivederci as opposed to goodbye. And I do want to have a follow-up with Mr. Sanders, if I may.
 And that is, when did those letters go out and are they being sent out in waves? Because I don't think we got any. I'm pretty sure they didn't come through the Fifth Ward. I didn't get one. My sister didn't get one. My cousin didn't get one. So, and we're all sort of dotted around. We're not all in the same sub areas of the zip code.
 So now we know how you got elected. You got half your family living in your door. Yes, that is true. How about Mr. Saunders? Do you know if they're going out in waves? So I believe they are going out in waves. They started the second week in November. So I'd be more than happy to follow up with you and see exactly kind of what those distribution groups look like. I can follow up with you after this. Okay. No, that's fine. I just wondered if we accidentally missed it because it looked like...
 Sometimes things look like junk mail, so you throw it away. I do know that a large number of people were saying, hey, I've seen these warranty programs before offered by NICOR or some other utilities. So not everyone is taking advantage of it. So if you guys have any questions, feel free to reach out. I'd love to follow up with people. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Frost? Thank you. Back when I was first elected approximately eight years ago, I had one alderman's
 SEATED NEXT TO ME IN THE THIRD WARD NAMED TOM ACTIMERA THAT LEFT THAT SEAT TO BECOME THE MAYOR AND NOW ALDIMAN SHRELLY WHO STARTED WITH ME IS LEAVING TO GO TO BE COUNTY BOARD CHAIRMAN AND I GUESS I'M GOING TO SAY I'M STILL HERE AND I HOPE MY FRIENDS DON'T FORGET ME. JOE, CONGRATULATIONS SO MUCH.
 You know, I used to complain to Mayor Morrissey and Mayor McInerney, but I was always envious of the 14th Ward because you got to vote last. And I would say it was always unfair that Alderman Durkee and Alderman Toomer had to take a hard vote, and you got to sit in the cap or seat over there, and I wanted to rotate. And somehow or another, you never let that happen. So you were very effective in your government leadership, right?
 Joe, I've always admired your ability to be so level-headed in many of the discussions over these years, and always your ability to listen to everybody. And I truly cherish that and those are good traits to have, and I know that they will serve you well in your new role. I'm not one for quotes, but...
 Henry Ford said, you can't build a reputation on what you're going to do. So I know that you, you, you, uh, now that you are starting your new position, uh, planning is important, but I know you were going to jump right in and start doing things. And of course, and my dad always told me when I started a new job, it was, it was don't screw up. And I know that Joe, that you're, you're not going to have no problem following one of those pieces of advice. So good luck to you. And just remember your friends in small places. Okay.
 I will. No worries. All of it, Timber. Isn't there a line that says, say it ain't so, Joe? Well, hey, Joe, it's been a pleasure. No matter what the others say about you, I do believe you're a man of sound mind and judgment. Okay.
 and I've counted on that for many insights on many things. So you'll be dearly missed on council, but as Alderman Herbie said, I think there's some to look ahead. I think there will be a greater collaboration between council and, and the board. And I,
 I know Tom and yourself are going to make sure also that there is better collaboration, and I'm sure there will be between you two and us as council members and board members. We look forward to that. And yeah, miss you on council, but we'll be seeing you around, of course.
 I would be more than happy if anybody cares for me to filibuster because I can, because I would prevent Alderman Durkee from speaking. But I know we want to hear from Alderman Logerman, so I will sign out here. On behalf of City Council, thank you. Alderman Logerman, thank you.
 My only regret is that I didn't really, I didn't get to know you better. But I was gone for a year, but I only had a little under two years, three years to work with you. But I was thinking about this. One of the best things that my little four-year-old, whenever she sees somebody doing something, whenever she sees me,
 someone doing something good or me, she'll say, dad, you're a good man or dad, you're a kind man. It's so poignant and so profound. And I think about that with you, Joe, your ability, you're such a good man, such a kind man. Um, and your ability to really truly bring people together is one of the greatest skills in this fine work of government. And you do that so well. Um,
 I will miss you on council and I thank you so much for your service to council. And I very much look forward to working with you in the future, Joe. So sad to see you leave here, but as a friend, I'll be looking forward to working with you more. Thank you. Absolutely.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Hey, as Joe said, I actually met his dad first when he fixed my clothes and then I met Joe first when I ran for alderman. And
 I think one of the words I I'd like to add when, when, when I was running with them and we would talk before and after we had a couple of debates in public, we both got skewered by a tea party one night. But, um,
 But when I came to understand Joe as a gentleman and kind of sort of dovetails on Alderman Logeman, just a good guy, a gentleman, great to work with. I appreciated his insights in the city. I didn't grow up in Rockford. And I remember he and I were many, I don't know how long ago it was, we were on the road,
 West side of Rockford on 7th and Broadway and chose describing the vibrant neighborhood that was out there that used to be and lamenting how things could go awry. But I've always appreciated that. I think he has a gentleman's love for the community and for each of them, and I think he's going to be extremely successful as a uniter and a good force in that. So thanks, Jeff.
 Excellent. Well now Alderman Shirelli, now that your head's all big, make sure you go talk to Connie. She'll straighten you out and get that all shrunk up since you're not in her wildest dreams. But with that being said, is there a motion to adjourn? Second.
 Second, we're not letting anyone discuss it. Clerk, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Bruck. Aye. Ross. Thank you. Gervie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose. Beach. Hi. Kenona. Hi. Stanley. Hi. St. Louis. Hi. Shirely. Hi.
 No. Well, guys, one no. Well, everyone have a wonderful night and a safe and healthy week. Take care. See you.