Please chaplain Hensley from Free Will Bible Church is here for us. Please give us an invitation. Let's pray. Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we ask that you come with your presence and be in this council meeting tonight. We pray, Lord, that the decision be made be good for Rockford, for the citizens of Rockford,
 But, Lord, we also want to remember those who protect us from day to day. Our police and fire departments, Lord, keep them safe from danger. Let them be able to go home to their families like we want to go home to ours. Most of all, Lord, have your way and have everything done decently and in order tonight. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey, Getchis, Frost, McConnell, Thompson-Kelly, Addo, Beach, Elliott, Beck, Chiarelli,
 13 present. Thank you very much, Abdul-Aquara. Just one, as we get started tonight, to make a reminder, we're still working on some of the kinks in the new microphone system for the council. So if you're having any issues or concerns, please feel free to follow up directly with Mr. Trammels, who is working with our vendor, who's been doing the installation. But as a starting point right now, your mic may be on.
 If you have any questions, you can always ask me. But your light, they haven't figured out yet how to get the lights to work, so you...
 I know that your mic is on, so just be forewarned that what you say may be picked up on the microphone. I can see it on my screen up here, so if you have any questions at all, you can let me know. Right now, for instance, mine is the only microphone that's on. But if you have any questions, let me know. That's something they're going to try to get worked out so that the lights would activate. And I also just wanted the microphones that look like this one.
 We're trying to make sure that they don't get covered up. That was one of the issues that they asked me to highlight. And then for our staff in particular, I think their other traditional microphones are still the ones you may want to need to still lift those up if you feel like you're not being heard. So we have a special council meeting tonight. Actually two separate meetings were agenda. This first meeting will cover some of our technical issues.
 ad hoc business items that had needed to be covered before the end of the year and we will move after that into our strategic planning session. So our first order of business is to take our public speakers. We have several public speakers signed up for this evening
 And I wanted to just remind our speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Roland Pascua. Whatever you said, I didn't understand. That's all right. We'll let you know if you go over. Okay. The question, how now do we get everyone in the world to do the impossibles?
 After 36 years, I finally got to the question that I'll never stop asking. How now do we get everyone in the world to do the impossibles? Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley.
 Okay, now it is. All right, let's make sure it's on. All right, that shouldn't take up all my three minutes. You know, I was going to read from here, but I'm just going to read Matthews because I'm going to freestyle tonight because it's Thanksgiving weekend. Matthews, good evening everyone, all our citizens of Rockford. Matthews said, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they should be called the children of God.
 16 Blessed are those which are prosecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 17 Blessed are you when men shall reveal you and prosecute you, and say all matters of evil against you falsely for their name's sake, 18 and rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. 19 So for prosecutors, they that profit the profit which shall be done in heaven.
 You know, non-Muslims carry out more than 90% of all terrorist attacks in American territory, and it's real. But the threat to U.S. from Muslim terrorists has been greatly exaggerated. We have to be living under a rock to realize that we are already in World War III. But they're using it, talking about a proxy war. ISIS have definitely made a strong stride in winning by putting fear in Europeans and then fear in American hearts.
 denying the Iraqis and the Syrian citizens, the refugees from coming here to the United States was just like denying the pilgrims when they came here on the Mayfly when they were being prosecuted by King James where they wanted to study the Bible and study religions under their own under their own
 book under their own way of going about the Bible. I'm not even going to go further with talking about Thanksgiving. I'm totally against, they called it Black Friday. A lot of people don't understand the definition of Black Friday. Black Friday was created after Thanksgiving when the slave owners was helping the other plantation owners who didn't have enough slaves to harvest.
 they land. So they would borrow slaves from the big plantation and those slaves would help harvest their plantation. So they called it Black Friday. And so now they have been not the last Black Friday and made it out of money making things when actually that's the original where Black Friday started for us.
 Now let me bring it all the way back here to Rockford. We have a lot of racism, we have a lot of fear. A lot of people that live in Newtown have this big fear of the people who live in housing. Everybody that lives in RHA is not criminal, is not Steve or not, you know,
 uh... turning toward balance but a lot of people who live in housing is trying to do better but the point is a lot of people don't trust RHA RHA makes strong statements that they're going to do this, they're going to do that but they talk about choice neighborhoods but they don't keep their promises
 Yet here I am, a brother that's actually out there in the trenches trying to implement the things that the city talks about and that RHA talks about, but they're not implementing. And I'd like to thank you for this time. And come next week, I'll finish talking about RHA in Newtown. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 good evening ladies and gentlemen in the book of james the first chapter 22nd verse it says do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourself do what it says what i want to speak about tonight is not hocus pocus it's all about focus i love the story about the day hall of fame baseball player and home run king hank aaron came to bat in the all-star game
 Yogi Bear, the great Yankee catcher, was catching. Yogi Bear loved to talk to hitters, to distract them. I used to do that myself when I was a catcher. You'd give me hand that hitter and say stuff like, Big man, little stick. You'd ask him, how's your mama? You'd play with his mind and talk to him. Yogi Bear was great at that. So when Hank Aaron came to bat, Yogi Bear started in.
 Hank, you're holding your bat the wrong way. You should be able to read the label. Hank Aaron just kept his focus on the pitcher and didn't say anything. Yogi Bear was channeled trying to get Hank Aaron to worry about where the label on his bat was instead of concentrating on the pitch. Finally, Hank Aaron had heard enough. Yogi, he said, I didn't come up here to read you.
 I came up here to hit. That's keeping your focus and concentration where they need to be. Near my head, that kind of focus. He didn't let anything distract him. He was about God's agenda. And he knew what he had been called to do. How about you? If something's distracting you from what God wants you to do, put it behind you today. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Toby Holliman. Is Mr. Holliman here? All right. Our next speaker is Mark Beeman.
 All right, we will move on. Thank you to our speakers who participated this evening. Next council resolutions. Alderman Durkee. Can I go ahead? Mr. Hayes, can you help? I'm recommending approval of the request for proposals for the redevelopment of the Rockland watch factory. This is the item that was discussed? Yes. Okay, go ahead.
 planning development recommends approval of a request for proposals for the redevelopment of the brockford watch factory mr hayes do we need a motion to spend rules in that at all so matter of the passage is the item that was
 voted on last week if council may recall staff had wanted to make sure this gets out this year in order to make sure we are timely in terms of getting proposals and able to take advantage of the various incentives that are applicable still for the potentially for the Rockford watch factory. So this matter is up for passage and discussion. Is there discussion from council? Alderman Ackermann. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 thank you just to confirm it's going to be the second week in January that the proposals will be due I'm not sure Mr. Kegnoy yes we anticipate having the proposals due on January 12th thank you thank you Alderman Hervey my concern it was the
 short time frame. I was hoping that for the watch factory we could actually put this out for a broad national search and with holidays, end of the year, especially for a lot of businesses, I just think that's a very short time frame for the RFP. I don't remember where else but there seems to be a lot of gaps in it. I didn't have time to go home and get my tablet, I
 But I just remember I had scratched, I made a copy of part of it and scratched a lot of notes and I was just very concerned because there were so many blanks.
 I don't even know if we had time to get it out. And even if we do, I really wanted to make sure for the watch factory, because of its proximity to the sports complex, that we're really looking at that as part of a larger plan and put it out on a national scale. My preference is for local folks, depending on what they choose to do. But I do want to see some national ideas, and I'm kind of disappointed that it's coming out so quickly. And that's a concern for me.
 Other thoughts or questions? Staff, Mr. Cagnone, can you comment at all on the issues Oldman Harvey raised, marketing the proposal and the turnaround time? Thank you, Your Honor.
 A couple of points. One, when we advanced the RFP for planning and development committee it was listed as a draft. Predominantly what had not been added was all the attachments as well as some photos in the timing which was contingent upon when council approves moving forward with the request for proposals. We do have a list of developers that we've
 which would be both locally, regionally and nationally to solicit requests for proposals. We'll be sending that out to them as part of our release of the proposal. Thank you. Any other discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Aye. Ketchis? Aye. McNoyer? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Cownall? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Newberg? Beach? Aye. Elliott?
 Thank you, Madam Pastor. Next, officer's reports. I just have one main item I want to comment on, which is to thank...
 the RACVP and all of the many volunteers and partners and businesses that supported a very successful stroll on state and a very safe event. I didn't really hear of any significant incidents or concerns, which is pretty incredible thinking about the thousands of people that were down enjoying participating in the event. I certainly want to be appreciative and thankful for all that those many partners in our community helped us to do to celebrate.
 We have a significant amount of work that's before us as a council, but it always is nice to be able to take time to celebrate with our community. And so thank you to all those involved. Other officers' reports, if the public gets you.
 Yes, Your Honor, I'd just like to announce that on December 17th at 5.30, the Key Creek Neighborhood Association is going to be holding their annual tree lighting in Churchill Park with a celebration to follow at W.A. Lutheran Church. This is a fantastic neighborhood organization, and it's really a great time, so please come out and support Key Creek Neighborhood Association. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a reminder to the Fifth Ward residents,
 We will have our annual holiday gathering this Saturday, December 5th. It's going to be at the Jane Addams Complex at, I think it's the 500 block of Seminary, right at the traffic circle. That's the best description. Noon to 1, I think it's going to be just meet and greet. Or no, pictures with Santa, I believe. So starting at about noon. I think dinner is...
 1 or 1.30, somewhere in that vicinity. We're sending out an email. It's on the ORCID website. We hope everybody can come out. We'll have some raffles, some gifts for the kids, and some good fun and fellowship. So please join us. Very good. Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Thank you.
 I also attended Straw on State. It's an awesome thing. I've gone all three years and it's nice to see that many people, again I will say multi-generational families enjoying a casual, beautiful night. Something that was pointed out to me by quite a few people I hadn't realized, the streetlights and everything are so beautiful from the news tower.
 down, but there's nothing, I'm sorry, west side of the river. So I would like to make sure and even be completely involved in that if we could have the lights,
 the, oh what, RAVC, their offices, there were no Christmas decorations, nothing on those two blocks other than the most beautiful tree that we've had in three years. But I think we should...
 take in decorations on all the blocks involved. So I will volunteer to head that up next year. You can put my name down because we need that on that side of town too. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. I'm in further officer's reports. Thank you. I think there was a couple items that needed to be referred. I'll look back. I do have an item to be referred. It's a random from Patrick Hayes, legal director.
 regarding the 2015 Non-Union Employee Compensation Ordinance. The ordinance provides a 2% general wage increase retroactive to January 1, 2015, as provided in the 2015 Budget and Appropriation Ordinance. That's referred to me as personnel. Thank you, and the next FNP meeting, I believe, is in two weeks. This one will be next week. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item to refer over, and I'm ran over by Mr. Patrick Hayes, our Legal Director.
 for the 2016 city council committee meeting calendars thank you may those be referred any further officers reports and I will ask that for motion to adjourn second we've been seconded again we're returning this meeting we'll call the other meeting order right after any discussion motion to adjourn all those in favor adjourn the meeting please signify by saying aye opposed no ayes have it meeting adjourned
 I will call the next meeting to order.