meeting we will begin this evening with an invocation from chaplain laird percy with the forest city fellowship let's pray jesus i just want to thank you for coming out of this season of thanksgiving lord i thank you that we are a country where we give thanks and we made it was so important we actually set time aside for it as a country
 And I want to thank you, Lord, for those who are here as well. Lord, we want to continue to have that kind of an attitude in all the things we do. I ask that you give everyone in this room favor in the things they need to discuss, grace in the things they need to do. And I ask, Lord, that we would continue as a city to be a grateful city, a city that works to take care of itself. And I ask for that in Jesus' name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Chaplain Percy, for your service to our team. So thank you so much. Welcome. Oh my goodness, it's a tag team. Awesome. Well, we are excited to have you. Thank you both so much. Next up, we'll go to the roll call clerk.
 Yes, Breene. Frost. Yes. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Hoffman. Beach. Yes. Quinones. McNeely. Shirely. Yes. Toomberg. Yes. Twelve present. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on November 18th, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Aye.
 Next is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on November 25th 2019 We have a motion a second all those in favor say aye those opposed And both items pass next up we have proclamations, but we don't have any proclamations this evening so we'll move right to petitions and communications and
 And we will go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one this evening. It's a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator regarding the plat of Swedish American East State Street. I refer that to Codes and Regs, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. Next up, we will go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four tonight. First is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director regarding the City of Rockford grant policy.
 Next is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders public works director regarding the city-state railroad agreement for rail railway highway grade crossing improvements at kishwaukee street and Illinois Railway railway tracks
 Say that three times. Memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the proposed commercial sexual exploitation of children policy. And the last is the memorandum from Douglas Pan, Assistant Deputy Police Chief, regarding a budget amendment to the 2020 Police Operating Budget. I refer these four items to Finance and Personnel. Thank you. Next up, we have Housing Committee and Alderman Hoffman.
 A memorandum from Matthew Flores, Neighborhood Stabilization Supervisor, regarding the presentation of the City of Rockford's Neighborhood Stabilization Strategy and Typology, referred to Housing Committee. Thank you. We will move on to our public speakers. And our first public speaker this evening, I'll just remind everyone that you have three minutes to speak. And our first public speaker, I will just say, is Prof. Youssef.
 and prophet uh this won't count against your time but i just want you to know that we don't like you we love you and happy birthday thank you thank you good evening ladies and gentlemen in the book of surat the 13th chapter the 13th to the 16th verse it says be on your guard and take care never to associate with men or violence every living thing love is on kind every man a man like himself
 Every being is drawn to his own kind. With his own kind every man is associated. Is a wolf ever allied with a lamb? So it is with the evil man and the just man. What I want to speak about tonight, how to use technology to find missing people and kidnap people.
 You put on children, adults, and people who have Alzheimer's a tracking device. This will help you find people fast. Like you track freight? Now it's time to track people. Help people have one tracking device around their neck, one around their wrists, and one around their legs. Let it be water resistant. Make it be mandatory for high-risk criminals.
 domestic violators and sex offenders to have these devices on them at all times. This will let you know where they are at all times. This would help reduce sex offenders' crimes, domestic violators' crimes, and high-risk criminals from committing crimes. This idea of mine would help
 solve crimes and deter crime at the same time. Also been one to tell my brother-in-law, Eric, who was in the Army in Vietnam, our granddaughter, Bic Sugar, my two great-niece, Asia, who was a linguist in the Air Force, and her sister, Octavia, who was a Crip operator in the Navy. My nephew, Manuel, who retired from the Revro, Pastor Rene Winters, Brandy's son, Willie, Alderman Gasparino, and his son, Michael, and Alderman Chiarelli's wife. This for a long time.
 And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. While I'm talking about birthdays, I also want to say happy birthday to myself.
 Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. God bless you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. Next up is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McAteer, all the persons and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Second to you, sir, third, finally, brothers, pray for us that the message of the Lord may spread rapidly and be honored just as it was with you. And pray that we may be able to do it.
 Be delivered from the wicked and evil men, for not everyone have faith, but the Lord is faithful and he will strengthen and protect you from the evil one. We have confidence in the Lord that you are joined and will continue to do the things he commands. May the Lord direct your heart into God's love and Christ's preservation.
 This year is the last month, the end of the year. Next year is a very important year because it's 2020. We have the census coming up. We also have the election coming up. I'm also on the ballot for the elected precinct committee. We also have where the marijuana is gonna be free. One of my biggest concerns is that the high number of youth that we already have is being expelled from school
 And when you got a four year old that's been suspended out of school, what are we doing about it? I did my homework. I found that it's not just Rockford, but it's nationally with a high number of our youth being expelled, especially the females. I also looked at Hollinegar
 and boarding schools where they don't suspend their youth. They can have in-school suspension, and they also work with the youth that's on drugs. And we look at a high number of crimes that's committed by the youth,
 and compare that number, is them the same number that's being expelled from school? Also look at the high number of youth that are having a high pregnancy rate. These are youth that's been expelled from school. We look at the number of moms. I know several that's in my program that's grandmothers and they just 32 years old. We got a mom that's 24 years old and she got six kids.
 So we can look at the school board, but there's only one person on the school board that can help us. We got to look in the community at the different organizations. How can we come together to address our target Rockford Housing Authority and see how many of them youth
 that's expelled out of school, what are we doing? We can look at homeschooling, but if we got parents that's not qualified because they didn't finish high school, how can they homeschool? So we can address the number of youth that's expelled and then we can also deal with the domestic violence. We look at the domestic violence statistics, but you also notice the comparison of them
 The, them, this guy they call, them that's being, them that's in domestic violence, they go there, they go and robocall. Just next to my three minutes. I try to turn that off.
 I want to get back to look at the domestic violence and the number of youth that's caught up in the domestic violence and look at the single mom and then youth that's been expelled. And we can look at that and address that issue and what have you. If I got over 60, how many of them is outside the number of that 60 round that we need to address? I got messed up with this phone call. That's all right. We'll be back next week. But my top priority is dealing with the number of youth that's been expelled. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next, we'll move on to new committee reports, and we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got several this evening, so bear with me.
 The first is a committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action on the following items. Establishing a parking restriction of no parking any time on the east side of South Prospect Street from 2nd Avenue to Charles Street. Thus repealing the no parking here to corner on South Prospect Street from 2nd Avenue to 36 feet to the south.
 B is the establishing a parking restriction of no parking any time on both sides of Oak Grove Lane between Oak Noles Avenue and 29th Street, thus repealing the no parking any time on the north side of Oak Grove Lane from Oak Noles Avenue to 225 feet east. And C, establishing a three-way stop control at the intersection of Woodruff,
 Avenue 18th Street and 16th Avenue, thus repealing the existing stop control on 16th Avenue at Woodruff Avenue. 18th Street number 2, the committee recommend recommend sustaining the traffic commission's approval. To establish a no parking any time on the north side of Cedar Street from the intersection of Tate Street to 360 feet to the east.
 Number three the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a two-way stop sign at the intersection of 20th Avenue And Parmalee Street thus repealing the existing two-way you control at the intersection of 20th Avenue and Parmalee Street number four the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a residential parking permits for occupants at 15 19 7th Street and
 Number five the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals denial for a variation to increase the maximum fence height of six feet to eight feet at 3719 Guilford Road
 Number eight number six committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals a of the approval of a special use permit for the outdoor storage of operable passenger vehicles and be the denial for a variation to eliminate concrete or asphalt paving and replaced with gravel for outdoor storage of operable passenger vehicles at 3382 South Alpine Road
 Those are all subject to conditions, Your Honor. Number seven, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals denial for A, a variation to increase the maximum fence height from six feet to nine feet in the side yard, and B, a variation to reduce the required deck setback from six feet to zero feet in a side yard at 406 North Gardner Avenue.
 Number eight the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit for a mural on the church at 318 North Church Street 319 North Court Street and 418 and 428 Park Avenue and
 Number nine the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit for the indoor residential self-storage warehouse that includes accessory outdoor passenger vehicle sales at 5502 Waynesford Way
 Number 10 committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's boards approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and be the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store at 4307 43 11 43 15 4317 and 44 17 Auburn Street Number 11
 is the committee recommends sustaining the l tabs approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the event space at 311 7th street number 12 the committee recommends approval of the flat of kilburn avenue boys and girls club number 13 the committee recommends approval of the right-of-way vacation request for the north south alley between acorn street and locust street
 At number 14, the committee recommends approval of the amendments to the City of Rockford's Code of Ordinances, Section 2 through 31U, Rule 21, public speaking. And the legal director shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances, Mr. Meyer. And I place those up for passage, Your Honor. Your Honor. Of course.
 Alright, so let's take items number one through nine and then eleven twelve thirteen and fourteen So one through nine and eleven through fourteen will leave ten for last Any discussion on items one through nine or eleven through fourteen saying none clerk. Will you please call the roll? Yes, bring Toomer frost urban Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones
 Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Sherilly. Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we'll move to finance and personnel. Item 10. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Next up is item number 10. Any discussion?
 Alderman Thompson Kelley. Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to thank Assistant Deputy Chief Andre Brass for the report that he did send me last week and the calls, the amount of calls in 2018. We had 84 police calls at this address and in 2019 we had 56 calls at this address.
 Unfortunately with the holiday have not had time to go and speak with the new owner. It is the same manager, but a new owner So I would like to request to lay this over until next two weeks We have a motion in a second. So it'll automatically be laid over. Thank you. Thank you. And you said for two weeks next City Council meeting which is two weeks Committee meeting. Yes. No council meeting. I
 Sorry, I made another error, but I appreciate you pointing that out. Were you wrong or I wrong? Oh, I was wrong. Oh, would you say that again? Next, we are going to, I think, move to finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. First is the approval of vouchers in the amount of $8,968,036.
 dollars and five cents. Next is the approval of the tax exempt clause
 For three engines and one ladder truck to PNC equipment finance for a lease rate of 2.93% annual payments will be $449,505 for a term of eight years funding source of the 2020 fire department operating budget. And then the third is the approval of the 2020 to 2024 capital improvement program. I place these three items up for passage.
 Thank you. So we have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. 13 ayes.
 Thank you. So those items passed next up. We'll go to officers reports and before I turn you over to alderman I just want to say a big thank you to Kyle Saunders for your leadership, but also your entire team several are here And Ken Jamie and Tim just thanks so much I know so many other people come in to play when it comes to the capital improvement program But thank you for all your diligent work that you did to get us this point. So thank you so much Next up is officers reports. I
 alderman beck yeah i just want to echo your comments and uh you know this has been a
 Kind of a different year for some of us have been on the council for a long time the fact that the budget was was passed without a whole lot of consternation from The ottoman and now the cip as well. So it does speak highly of our staff and the fact that they are doing a great job of planning how we are going to use our resources and To the best Benefit for our community and for our citizens. So congratulations to you guys and keep doing the great job you're doing. Thank you
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you. I echo that. They're too smart, really, because I couldn't weasel out any more money in my ward. But you tried. I sure did. I sure did. And we'll be trying again next year, too.
 But I also want to announce that the Rockford Solar for All Coalition Job Fair, Job Fair, will be held December the 12th from 6 to 8 p.m. at District 1 Police Station at 1045 West State Street. Trajectory Energy partners with the 7th Ward and the City of Rockford. So I'm hoping that anyone that's looking for a job will come out to this Job Fair because it's going to be very beneficial to the community and the city as a whole. Thank you.
 Do you have a flyer for that? Yes, I do. Can you email it to us or get us a copy? Everyone has one. Yeah, on your desk. We could make a copy of one of those. That'd be great. Thank you. Thank you. Other officers, Alderman Rose. I just wanted to, I have two items.
 Last night I got a chance to play basketball with a few people that invited me out. The Blazo, Coat Drive, Mike Rutherford, Malcolm Posley, Dee Patterson, Aramis Clark, and Darnell VanVleet were a few of the organizers. Got to play with some amazing young men.
 And the fact that they're doing that kind of work in our community, I just wanted to recognize their efforts and bringing about raising money and working to help the homeless. So it was a great event to be a part of, and I hope I get to do it again. The second event is coming up this Friday. There's a Young Democrats.
 meeting this Friday at 6 p.m. at the Irish Rose. It's open to the public. We don't leave it to just one group, so if you're Republican, Democrat, Independent, we want to just invite people to come out, have a good time, enjoy the holidays, and have some fun. Wonderful. Other reports? Seeing none, we'll move right along. Next up, the appointments laid over. They'll still be laid over
 After December 18th, so we'll move to motions and resolutions and we'll go back to alderman back for finance and personnel motions and resolutions Yeah, oh here there. Thank you your honor and thank you alderman. Shirley very capable assistants
 Okay, we have several items. The first is the awarded bid for 2019 demolition group seven to Northern Illinois Service Company Rockford for demolition of the following properties, 904 11th Street, 1019 North Church, 403 Lexington Avenue, 1301 Elm Street for a total of $46,470. Duration of the contract is 45 days.
 Next, we have an awarded bid for waterworks supplies and materials to Cora and Main of Rockford, Power Seal Pipeline Products of Wichita Falls, Texas, and Ferguson Waterworks of DeKalb. The dollar amounts are total of $374,658.86. The contract duration is one year with two possible one-year extensions.
 Next, we have the award of engineering agreement for water distribution model update to Baxter and Woodman of Crystal Lake in the amount of $123,500. The project is expected to be completed spring of 2020. Next is the award of non-competitive contract.
 to southeast rockford superfund site groundwater monitoring to nationwide environmental services of gold in colorado and the amount of 115 440 contract duration is three years i do have an amendment for this item um alderman shirley can grab that from the bottom there i move to amend the resolution uh for the
 Non-competitive contract for the southeast Rockford Superfund site to nationwide environmental services of gold in Colorado in the amount of one hundred fifteen thousand Four hundred forty dollars to reflect a contract duration of one year with two possible one-year extensions The change being that it's the one year with two extensions instead of the three years So I make a motion that we amend that resolution. We have a motion in a second. Is there any discussion? I
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. All right. And then moving on, we have the award of a joint purchasing contract for three engines and one ladder truck to Global Emergency Products of Aurora in the amount of $3,164,725.
 Next we have the resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code our one planning counseling council funding in the amount of seventy six thousand two hundred ninety two dollars and
 Next, we have the renewal of the agreement for third party administrator for medical and hospital benefits for the 2020 health insurance plan to Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois for the contract amount rates of $52.59 per employee per month for PPO plan and $37.72 per month for the HSA plan.
 Total estimated annual administration costs $74,411 based on 931 PPO participants and 256 HSA participants. The contract duration is one year.
 Next, we have the renewal of agreement for dental benefit for 2020 plan year with Metropolitan Life Insurance for a contract amount rates of $27.84 for employee only coverage, $65.75 for employee plus one, and $126.20 for family. At the current enrollment level, the total estimated annual premium will be $1,236,668. Contract duration is one year.
 Next is the renewal of agreement for employer-paid 2020 group life term insurance for the City of Rockford employees with metropolitan life insurance for the contract amount rate, so $10.108 million.
 dollars per $1,000 of life insurance coverage and .025 dollars per $1,000 of AD&D coverage for a total estimated annual premium of $48,535. Contract duration is one year.
 And the last one is renewal of agreement for pharmacy benefit manager for the prescription drug coverage for 2020 to Express Scripts Incorporated for the amount, contract amount and rates of expenses are based on average wholesale price, less a discount retail cost or brand name drugs will be AWP, the average wholesale price, less 18.25%. Generic drugs will be AWP, less 82%.
 Greater discounts will be applied for mail order. The estimated annual cost is 3.6 million dollars The contract duration is one year with two additional Single-year renewal options and I place these items of her passage
 Excellent, so we have items 1 through 10 before us and amended number 4 alderman Thompson Kelly I just have a question on number 7 the the 1187 participants is that how the the the price? The PPO is is is price with to us Yeah, it's it's 931 PPO mm-hmm with 256 HSA and
 Correct and the 5259 per employee is for the PPO and then the HSA is a 3772. Thank you. Thank you Number six the resolution for improvement under Illinois Highway Exactly. What is that? directors Saunders
 So that's just our annual funding to R1 PC to facilitate our long-range transportation planning and help us secure additional funding through our CIP in their TIP So everyone in the state, every municipality pays into that? So R1 PC is our MPO so each community that it serves pays kind of their per capita basis to help facilitate that that effort Okay, thank you
 Any other further discussion? Seeing none, so we have items 1 through 10, and item 4 had been amended. Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 13 eyes. Thank you those items pass next up. We'll go to new business and code and regulation committee alderman Shirely Thank your honor I have an ordinance establishing no parking any time on the north side of Cedar Street from the intersection of Tay Street to 360 feet to the east
 Number two is an ordinance establishing a two-way stop sign at the intersection of 20th Avenue and Parmalee Street, thus repealing the existing two-way yield control at the intersection of 20th Avenue and Parmalee Street. Number three is an ordinance establishing residential parking permits for occupants of 1519 7th Street. Number four is an ordinance approving the special use permit for the outdoor storage of
 Passenger vehicles at 3382 South Alpine Road. Number five is an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural on a church at 318 North Church Street, 319 North Court Street, and 418 and 428 Park Avenue. Number six is an ordinance approving a special use permit for an indoor residential self storage warehouse.
 At 5502 Waynesford Way, number 7 is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 4307, 4311, 4315, 4317, 4417 Auburn Street. Or was that the one that was laid over? Yeah. Auburn Street's laid over. Okay, so that one, disregard number 7. Thank you.
 Seven and eight. Okay, so seven and eight were laid over your honor Number nine is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the event space at 30 Or three eleven seven Street That's three eleven seven Street number ten is an ordinance approving the right-of-way vacation request for the north-south alley between Acorn Street and locust Street and
 And number 11 is ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 2 through 31U, Rule 21, public speaking. That approval requires 10 votes, Your Honor. I place those ordinance up for passage. Thank you. So, Alderman, we have items 1 through 11 without 7 and 8, so 1 through 6 and 9 through 11. Is there any discussion on those items? No.
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Those items passed. Next up, we'll move to finance and personnel. Alderman Beck.
 And I have one item. It's the ordinance approving a tax-exempt lease for three engines and one ladder truck to PNC Equipment Finance for a lease rate of 2.93%. Annual payments will be $449,505 for a term of eight years. Place is up for passage. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Ross. Aye.
 Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. So that item passes. Next, is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and a second. Anyone want to discuss it? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.