Thank you. I will call to order the City of Bradford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, December 5th, 2022. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee, Logaman, Toonberg, Frost, Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Alderman Beach, Quinones, Meeks, Bonney. 13 present. All right. Thank you. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on November 7, 2022? So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? All right. Motion passes. We've already completed our proclamations. So next we will go into our presentations and we have this evening we have a presentation from marathon for a year-end review Presentation which will be our year eight review director hunter. Yeah, so this evening we'll have a presentation from Jennifer McConnell Linda dr. Dave and Anthony will be going over our year-end results for the marathon I Hey, Jennifer from Marathon, are you with us? Yep, I am here. Does Todd have my slides there up? Yep, your slide deck is up, and the floor is yours now. Okay. Oh, I can't see it, so you'll have to help. I'm not sure which slide we're on here. So you're on the first slide, which is every outcome tells a story. Yep, sure. Yep. So my name is Jennifer McConnell. I am the client and care team manager for the City of Rockford. Okay. I am new to the account this year, so I'm so excited to be here and partner with you all and tell the story of our year eight review. So moving on to the next slide. The heart and soul of what we do is our team. So this is our team that's in the Core Wellness Center every day. We have Amy, who is an MA, Dr. Dave Folger, our physician, Marisol Cardenas, who is an MA, Izzy Sanchez, who is an MA, and then Anthony Sikora, who is our nurse practitioner. You can move on to the next slide. So our quadruple aim is the guiding light to everything we do. So there are four main things that we keep in mind with the services we provide to the city of Rockford. So number one, we want to empower world-class clinicians to change patients' lives. And then by having those world-class clinicians, we hope that we can provide and create an amazing patient experience before, during, and after the visit. And when we combine those two, we can improve health outcomes. We can make meaningful impacts on people's health. And then all of that will translate to lower health care costs both now and in the future. We can move on to the next slide. So our year eight executive summary, some of this we'll go into a little later, so I'll go through this kind of quickly. Our employee engagement overall is 85%. So when we compare that to the Marathon Health Book of Business, that's 55%. So the city of Rockford is exceeding that metric. If we look at our member satisfaction, it's 94.2%. So overall, over the course of the year, we had 97 out of 103 people that were either satisfied or very satisfied with their visit at the Core Wellness Center. And then our health outcome improvements, 68% of our unique members are making progress on at least one biometric factor. So if we compare that to the marathon benchmark, that's 63%. So we're exceeding on that measure, too. For high-risk employee engagement, 90% of our high-risk or chronic condition members are engaged with the clinic. If we compare that to the Marathon Benchmark, that's 66%. And then repeat utilization. So once people are coming in the door, they're coming back again. So the average number of visits per person is 4.3 visits over the course of 18 months. And the Marathon Health Benchmark there is 2.8 visits. And then a couple different savings metrics, 1.05 million is the savings when we compare the user versus non-user savings of people who have used the clinic versus not used the clinic. And then 37.9 million is the overall cumulative savings for claims that – If we look over the course of the claims of the past eight years, that's the savings. Again, we don't claim that Marathon has 100% to do with that. We do play a part in that, but that's our estimated savings over the course of our eight-year partnership. All right, the next slide. This is appointment volume by year, so we're looking over the volume across all eight years. You can see from year seven to year eight, there was a bit of a decrease, but that decrease was in lab volume. So in year seven, we were doing a lot of COVID vaccines and COVID testing. But if you look at the orange, which is preventative visits, and the yellow, which are acute visits, there are actually more provider visits. So, most of those colors represent visits with a provider. That's the highest it's been in four years. So, even though the overall number has gone down, the amount of people meeting with providers have gone up. And that's where we can really see lifestyle changes when employees and spouses and dependents engage with our providers. And if you look over to the right, that graph there represents the people that are coming in by relation. So that dark purple is employees, the green is spouses, and the light purple is dependents. You can see employees make up about 80% of the volume that we have in the health center. If you move on to the next slide, the occupational health unique appointments. So here you can see there's quite a drop-off, and that is due to a change in the way we've reported our visits. So this is broken down by how many – the number of visits broken down by the bargaining units. So at our old system, we used to count, you know, if somebody came in for multiple appointments, They came in once for their lab and another time for the physical. That was counted as two visits. So we really tried to enhance our scheduling and make it more efficient so people aren't having to come in as often to do the same services. So that's why it looks like there are fewer visits. There has been a reduction in some of the services due to COVID. We haven't been able to do some of the respiratory services. But it hasn't gone down as drastic as it's depicted on this graph here. But there at the bottom, you can see the redirected care savings. So by having the services done at the core wellness center rather than going out into the community, there's a savings of $19,842, just direct dollars, not counting, you know, the time it saves and the convenience. Next slide. So this is just an overview, a snapshot of some of the opportunities we've had to engage people and invite them into the health center. I won't go through all this. If you want to go ahead and go to the next slide. This is just our calendar of events and programs. So you'll notice we try and do something every month, and some months are busier than others. But we want to really try and get out and get in front of the employees and spouses and get them into the health center so that way we can come alongside people on their health journey. Thank you. So a ton of stuff when our providers aren't seeing patients, they're getting out and working in the different departments doing lunch and learns, all kinds of ways to engage the population. Next slide. So this is the health center engagement. For the purpose of this slide, we define engagement as people that have had a visit within the past 18 months, so any type of visit. So here we're looking at years five through eight, and you can see it's really remarkable that we have continued to go up. On the far left are employees, so our employee engagement is at 85%. If you compare that to Marathon's book of business for municipalities, it's 55%. In the center spouses, we're sitting at 28%. We're a little below the benchmark. I think that's where we have opportunities to really grow and improve by engaging those spouses. And then dependents, we're at 23%. In the benchmark, there's 15%. All right, you can go ahead and go to the next slide. This is where we've classified the population based on claims and biometrics as pulling out the people that are at high risk or have a chronic condition and seeing how engaged they are with the wellness center. So, again, this is incredibly high engagement. It's phenomenal. We're at 90% of the people that are at high risk or have a chronic condition are engaged in the health center. That means they've had at least one visit in the past 18 months. Again, you can see the benchmarks over on the right. So our benchmarks for Marathon Health Municipality to 66%. Spouses, we're sitting at 44% engagement as compared to the 43% benchmark. And then dependents, we're at 35% compared to the 25% benchmark for people that are at high risk or have a chronic disease. All right, next slide. I want to pause for a moment and talk about a story, a patient story that we had. This really speaks to the value of having an incentive program. So there was a young individual that came into the Core Wellness Center to do her incentives. She came in to complete her biometric screening for incentive points. So there wasn't really any other reason for her to come in here. But when she came in and met with Dr. Dave and got her lab done, it was discovered that there were some abnormal lab values. So that led to digging in further. to health conditions, lifestyle, completing some additional labs, and found out, went to a diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. So that condition was caught early, and you're able to make a referral and then continue to work with the patient on health coaching and lifestyle changes to help manage that condition and overall lead to better outcomes with the condition and hopefully avoid some of those future costs associated with the condition. All right, next slide. I'm not going to read these. These are just some snippets of some patient comments. Just pointing out a few things. You know, this person said the nurse practitioner, Anthony, was very personable and took time to make sure I understood the results from my blood test. We recommend them to see the co-workers. Second one says, love this place. Dr. Dave was totally awesome. All the qualities you want in a doctor. So it's just really special when employees take the time to call out our providers by name. If you move on to the next slide, this is looking at some of our claims information and our biometric risk factors. So this is how we looked at high-risk and chronic populations. So we have data on 781 members, and so that's broken down in different buckets. So you can see… Down there at the bottom, that light blue, 24% or 193 members are at a high biometric risk. 369 people have a single chronic condition, 210 people have more than one chronic condition, and nine people have advanced medical needs. So if we look at the table in the center, we see that when we look at the engagement rates. So we can see the people, especially with advanced medical needs and those polychronic, are close to 80% engagement. So those are the people we want to get in the clinic because that's where we can really make a difference and try and help. mitigate those risk factors and manage some of those chronic conditions. All right, next slide. This breaks it down by conditions. So you can see the orange are It's verified conditions, so that's people that have a diagnosis by a marathon health provider. The gray in the center is unverified, so that means we've just got the data from our claims. And then the total, the purple is the total of the prevalence of all of those. So you can see there's 571 there with these chronic conditions. So overall, your top four, hypertension, diabetes, asthma, and depression, which is pretty standard that we see across our book of business. All right, you can go to the next slide. And actually, we'll go ahead and skip that slide just in the interest of time. I know there's a lot to get through, so we'll look at the overall claims trend analysis. So this shows – this is just a basic look at your claims over the years in our partnership together. So the orange line is just the trend of the projected claim spend based on inflation. And then the green is the actual spend. So I don't spend too much time on this graph because there's a lot of factors that play into it. But anytime the green is below the orange, that represents a savings. And anytime the green is above the orange, it represents a loss. But again, we are not saying that Marathon Health is responsible for all this. There's a lot of different factors. You know, the pandemic played a lot of factors in it. But this is just a look at the estimated savings through claims. You move on to the next slide, and this is going to show more of where Marathon Health has had an impact. So this is looking at the population that have high and chronic conditions and whether or not they've had a visit, a preventative visit or not. So we're looking at the non-engaged population or people that have never had a health coaching visit. And engaged people are people that have had at least one health coaching visit. So right at the beginning, I want to bring to your attention at the bottom the average risk score. You can see the non-engaged population has 1.62 risk score, and engaged population has a 1.71 risk score. So basically what that means by having a higher risk score, that population is less healthy than the other population. So what we would expect to see is the population that has a higher risk score would cost more money. But in actuality, you can see our engaged population with the higher risk score actually costs less, $1,580 less than the non-engaged group. So if you extrapolate out, it's a 23.1% savings, you extrapolate that out, It comes out to $894,000 of savings when you compare the engaged group versus the non-engaged group. Next slide. So this is those same numbers comparing engaged to non-engaged, but it just breaks it out of where that money is spent. But one thing I really want to point out on this slide is if we look at our inpatient admission and our emergency remuneration, again, the engaged group had the higher risk score, so we would expect them to be sicker. We would expect them to be in the emergency department more often. We would expect them to be admitted to the hospital more often. But as you can see here, the engaged group has less, utilization of the ER and inpatient admissions. All right, next slide. This breaks down the savings by condition. So all the people on this slide have this diagnosis of all these conditions here, and it's showing the difference between people who are engaged versus not engaged. So the purple are people that are engaged, so we've had one preventative visit, and the gray are people that are not. So the idea is anytime the purple bar is less than the gray bar, there's a savings. So you can see the actual numbers down on the bottom. You know, some of them have a really small number. But overall, if you look at all conditions, there's 323 people that are not engaged and 291 people that are engaged. And if you look at the numbers at the very top, the people that are engaged are costing about $6,300, while the people who are not are costing about $12,200. So overall, the engaged group is costing $5,884 less than the non-engaged group. So that's a savings of about 48%. All right, next slide. And then finally, just to kind of conclude and look at our next steps and our strategies, we wanna continue to maintain that high engagement. We would like to get more spouses in because we think there's opportunity there. We wanna continue to support our COVID management, focusing on booster vaccines and exploring if there's opportunities to maybe provide some therapeutics in the center. We wanna enhance our occupational health processes, continue to work with the department to figure out ways to be more efficient in partnering with them. There's some opportunities for some supplemental services. Behavioral health is a big one right now. There's a couple stats there. 70% of adults with mental health conditions don't receive treatment. 92% of adults with substance abuse don't receive treatment. So I know with COVID, that's brought a lot to light. A lot of people are having trouble getting access to behavioral health services. So that's something that Marathon Health can provide and hopefully enhance our services. And then physical therapy is another option. Musculoskeletal claims are almost always in the top 2%, and they are the number two claim spend of the City of Rockford this year. So there's an opportunity for additional savings there. And then considering adding incentives for spouses. You know, we know incentives are a great driver to get people into the center. So something we can look at and explore. Okay. And then finally, looking forward to continuing our partnership in the future. We're up for renewal in September of 2023, so we look forward to those discussions. So that's the end of my presentation. Any questions? I also have Lauren May, Regional Vice President, Linda Botaw, Regional Director, Anthony Sikora, our Nurse Practitioner, and Dr. Dave Bolger on the phone here. So if there's any questions, I'm sure one of us will have the answer, or we can get it for you. Thank you. Thank you for that presentation. To counsel, do you have any questions or items that you would like to bring up? Alderman Beach and then Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. I happen to use the Wellness Center from time to time as well as other facilities in Rockford, but it's very difficult to get any tests and everything that's done at the Wellness Center into our charts at other hospitals. So if you have to go to the hospital emergency room or whatever and they're looking at your charts, they will not necessarily have the most current information about you as a patient. And I wonder if there's ever going to be a time when they can link up from the wellness clinic to the other major medical providers in the city. Thank you, sir. Thank you. And, Jennifer, were you able to hear that question? Yes, I could hear that. Linda or Lauren, maybe you could speak more to that question. I'm happy to jump in. moved to a new medical record this past year in Athena Health and one of the goals of moving to that new electronic medical record was actually to make it possible so that we could interface with local entities, hospitals and things of that nature. Previously, Marathon Health actually had built its own homegrown electronic medical record and one of the reasons we weren't able to share information across platforms is just because it didn't have the capability. So now that we have Athena Health, it Through the healthcare information exchange, we are able to share, you know, labs, results, things of that nature across multiple systems, so long as we have the appropriate approval from patients and healthcare providers as well. So I'm hoping Alderman Beach, that's going to help in the future so that information flows a little bit more freely and hopefully makes that transition to care a little bit more seamless for you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you alderman frost. Are we gonna hear from others tonight for marathon or is this it? I think that's a presentation unless there's questions directly to others Okay, I just if before the renewal in September of 23 would be nice to see you folks live in person instead of over a conference call as We do utilize your services and we you've been with us for a long time. I But it would sure would be nice to see you guys directly instead of over a phone line. Just a tip. Thank you. I think, actually, they may have asked to come in person back during the summer, and I think they were, during that time was asked, they came up with, I think, mutually the idea of doing it virtually. Oh, well, I apologize if it was on the city, but I guess I'd like to know who at the city told them not to come here tonight. I had communicated. Well, this wasn't even a zoom This was just a slide stack with a phone line So it would be nice in the future if if we're gonna be voting on a renewal To see see the folks and see a little bit more a live presentation We can certainly do that all the room in front Engagement goals Did I miss that? In order to increase engagement? Yes, and to Marathon, a question from Alderwoman Prunty is are there any engagement goals to help increase that engagement? I'll add to that question if you don't mind. It looked like we were down in spousal as well as dependent and what are those goals to increase spouse and dependent use of the facility? One of the options we're thinking of, so our engagement is very high, our employee engagement, and so we want to continue to maintain that. So we're working closely with the wellness committee on some additional programming to get in there, get there, and offer that. Specifically, we're looking at the SPARC program, which is an overall program. health, nutrition, fitness program. We're looking at starting that in January, and it's a 12-week program, and it builds in health coaching. So we're going to offer that, and that will open that up to spouses, dependents, and employees. And 1st, now, since we talked about, maybe 1 of the discussions is offering an incentive program, because we know that. Incentives help get people in the door, so not necessarily the same. Incentive program that we do for employees, but something else to get them into the center. A lot of times it's harder because they're a little bit healthier. We try and focus on school and sports physically. And that's a great time to get them in the door, but we continue to look for other ways and partner with the city. Any suggestions you all have, we're happy to take those into account of ways we can reach the population and get them in the door. Thank you. Any other questions from council? Okay, to the Marathon Health Team, thank you for taking your time this evening, and we'll make sure that we get you here in person for our next report. Thank you. Absolutely. We would love to be there. Thank you so much. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Next, we'll move on to petitions and communications, and it doesn't look like we have any item under planning and development committee, so I will go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, I will go to the Code and Regulation Committee, We have a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer legal director regarding the review of City Council closed session minutes referred to Code and Regulation Committee Item to a memorandum from Kelly Noakes engineering operations manager regarding the three right-of-way vacation requests referred to Code and Regulation Committee item 3 a memorandum from Megan McNeil assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of of 4908, 4972, 4980, 5000, and 5064 South Main Street referred to Code and Regulation Committee. I also have an additional item. We are referring a proposed amendment to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances to allow hens at a single-family home in the City of Rockford to the Code and Regulation Committee for consideration at our next meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director, regarding the approval and acceptance of federal grant funds for the administration of children and families, Office of Head Start, annual continuation of Head Start, early Head Start services. for the period of april 1 2023 to march 31 2024 this will refer to finance and personnel committee number two is a memorandum from john wuch assistant city attorney regarding a fine reduction request for 208 south henrietta avenue this will also be referred to finance and personnel number three is a memorandum from robert willoughby brownfields development specialist regarding the united states epa revolving loan fund to j jeffers and company for environmental cleanup activities at the Coleman Yards redevelopment site. This will also be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Legislative and Lobbying Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you. There's a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the approval and confirmation of certain priority items for the City of Rockford legislative and lobbying efforts in the Illinois General Assembly, and this will be referred to the Legislative and Lobbying Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up, we have our public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of City Council Chambers. You have three minutes to address City Council. Phone buzzer will go off when your three minutes is up and ask that you close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom McNair, all the persons in our services of Rockford, Illinois. This has been a very interesting week. Proverbs is right on time. Proverbs verses 17, 27 highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. First is the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who are wise. Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you have something important to say. The black turnout in the midterm... was one of the lowest points for Democratic that related to low turnout numbers that are unnecessary as surprise. I've been talking about that for the past three years right here in Rockford. For the past few decades, the Democratic Party has been taking the have not votes for granted. We damn if we do vote and we damn if we don't vote. The mayor, you talk about our problems that plague our community, but yet you give us kibbles and bits and we should be happy. Friday news release, Pete Diddy is buying nine retail stores and three production facilities in Illinois, Massachusetts, and New York, and a move that will allow the black entrepreneurs to launch the country's first minority-owned and operated vertical, integrated, multi-state operation. But Pete Diddy also told Wall Street he is disappointed by the lack of minorities represented in the cannabis industry. aimed to make it more equitable to the no black owned marijuana retail or production assets in Rockford. And we also talked about the west side. We are not mad, we are not upset, we're not surprised. You did what Systematic Racing has been doing for decades. We look at the organizations that receive regrowth funds and what the regrowth funds was meant to help. Who sits on the board and who makes the decision about who represents the have-nots to sit on the board? Now we know that Mr. Collins is going to own more than three-fourths of Illinois distribution centers here in Illinois and we wonder what part of Rockford. So we're going to go out our way to make contact with them. We have over, I have over 4,348 friends on my Facebook page and someone in my organization will see and hear about our concerns. The decade-long war on drugs related to policy led to disproportionate cannabis related arrests, convictions. which have long lasted legal, social, economic, and to the generation consequences on the community of color. This is what y'all wrote. The funds is aimed to recertify some of the past harm and reinvest in how these funds should be spent. The City of Rockford Resolution 2021-7R, the Rockford Regrowth Fund, should be used for a program for economic business development education youth program, job training, health, housing, health, and other financial associations dealing with business. I'll pay it next week. Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Flossie Horton. Good evening to the Honorable Mayor McNamara, your cabinet, chief of police, and the other bodies here. It's been said that anyone that planned to fail, planned to fail, failed to plan, planned to fail. Sorry about that. I'm here to speak on the west side of Rockford and a lack of socioeconomic and social and even the chance for our young people to have any hope of prosperity, knowing that they can move up out of some of the environments they find themselves in. But I want to use this word because it stuck with me from Rock Valley in my sociology training. It's called the common good. And what does that refer to? It says philosophy, economic, and political science. The common good, also commonwealth. general welfare or public benefits, refer to either what is shared and beneficial for all or most members of a given community. Alternatively, what is achieved by the citizenship, collective action, and active participation in the realm of political and public service. When we look at the west side of Rockford, and I must say this, It is a shame that we have no major food change there. We have no medical facility there. We have no library on that side. We have no social outlet for our children on that side. And it has been said that Washington Park or maybe Booker Washington Center or either Northwest Community Center is good enough, but that's not true. Mayor McNamara, you are the leader of this city. You are the chief administrator. Your cabinet sits with you, advise you. We as citizens of Rockford all pay taxes, maybe not as much as the people across the river or some other areas of the city. But we have a right as it refers to the common good. There's no reason why we should not have a medical facility. Westside of Rockford is the only area in this city that do not have a major food change, do not have a site-based medical facility. We don't have a library. And it is a economic, not only an economic downfall, but it's a social and emotional downfall. And I really don't understand it because I know any one of you that live and make a decent living, and maybe three figures, five, six or whatever, you would not want to live on the west side of Rockford. I know you wouldn't. But yet and still, for people who cannot afford anything else, they do the best they can, most of them. And we pay taxes. And it's a reflection, Mayor, on your leadership. It really is. It's a reflection on your leadership. Thank you. The next public speaker this evening is Larry Washington. Mr. Mayor, you need to have a serious talk with the Rockford Mass Transit District, and it's totally out of control. On November the 29th, I was falsely accused of interfering with the driver in their scope of duties. The public announcer on the bus states if this happens, the accused will be prosecuted. Will be prosecuted, but as you see, I'm here standing here without being arrested or prosecuted, so I guess they thought better of that. I was suspended from riding the bus for three days. Here's the story. I was waiting at the designated bus stop. Driver rights passed me for about a bus length. I have complained on this driver before so I know she did it on purpose. When I boarded the bus I said you know the other bus drivers stop at the designated right there and I went had a seat. During the trip uh She stops the bus, goes back to the back of the bus to get something that somebody had left on the bus. On her way back to the front, she stops at my seat. I'm just in the mind of my own business. And starts going in on me, harassing me. You're harassing us. You're doing this. You're doing that. No, she was harassing me at that point and bothering me. The drivers tried to switch things around. I called RMT's office while I was on the bus and told them the driver is harassing me and that I will be down there to complain on her. As I was writing my complaint, risk manager says I'm suspended for three days for interfering with the driver's scopes of duties. How so? I was quietly sitting there. She started it all. I asked the manager, had he even looked at the video? He says no. But he says he has several passengers as witnesses. Well, he and the driver have a huge problem with that because my witness is the camera on the bus. And the camera don't lie. I did nothing wrong. What they are accusing me of is a felony, according to the announcer on the bus. Okay. I did not in any way stop her from doing her scope of duties. She never stopped with doing her job, so they're lying. You would think if I was causing such a ruckus as they contend, she would have called dispatch to tell them I'm stopping the bus. Call the police. She didn't do it. I will also be addressing the RMTD board on this December the 19th. This driver should be fired for lying. Oh, but of course she won't. Word is she is dating the operations manager. So she gets away with a lot. I counted three to five violations she made during my trip. Risk manager also needs to be fired. This is an unwarranted suspension, caused me emotional distress and anxiety. I'm trying to find out how I'm supposed to get around now without the bus. to do what I needed to do. To do is very evil, especially the risk manner. What I did and did... Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, 121st chapter, the first or the second verse, it says, I look to the hills which comes my help. My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. What I want to speak about tonight lies about African-American and Hispanics America in Vietnam. They say there was no African-Americans and Hispanics Americans to get the Congressional Medal of Honor in Vietnam. That's a lie. There was 21 African Americans and 23 Hispanic Americans who get the Congressional Medal of Honor in Vietnam. And I'm going to name them tonight. Here's the 21 African Americans. James Anderson, Jr., Marine Corps, Wesley Anderson, Army, Eugene Ashley, Army, Oscar P. Austin, Marine Corps, Matthew Leonard, Army, Donald Long, Army, Milton Olive, Army, Wally R. Pitts, Army, Charles Calvin Rogers, Army, Rutan Sargent, Army, William Bryant, Army. Rodney M. Davis, Marine Corps. Robert Jenkins, Marine Corps. Lance Dogg, Army. Brighton H. Johnson, Army. Ralph H. Johnson, Marine Corps. Garfield M. Langhorst, Army. Klan Sasser, Army. Clifford Sims, Army. Johnny Warren, Jr., Army. Martin Lawrence, Army. Here's the 23, Hispanic Americans. John Becker, Army. Roy Benavides, Army. Emma Gonzalez, Marine Corp. Ralph Dias, Marine Corp. Daniel Fernandez, Army. Alfred Gonzalez, Marine Corp. Joe Demanze, Marine Corp. Miguel Keith, Marine Corp. Carlos Salazar, Army. Alfred Reston, Army. Louis Alarco, Army. George Rodera, Army. Rua Rubio, Army. the colon army, a little bit of Smith army, J.R. Bargis Marine Corps, Leonard Alvarado army, Felix M. Falcon army, Jose S. Doran army, Santiago Riva army, Canvero Garcia army, Hubert Garcia army, Maxim Yates army, African-Americans. and his family's American. You have no reason to have your head down because you have fought and died for the United States of America. I also thank God for my spiritual brother. I call him Tiger Land, Mr. Huffy, my friend, the preacher. You know who I'm talking about, you, Auburn Beach. And my friend, Reverend Doxon, he's a military. And don't forget my captain friend right there. And I want all veterans, I thank God for you, because if it wouldn't have been for you, I wouldn't have made it back. I did three tours in what we call the land that God forgot. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. And behold... That kinswoman Elizabeth, in her old age, has also conceived a son who was called barren. For God, with him, nothing is impossible. And blessed is she that believed. Two women, one supposedly barren, about to give birth, and the other a virgin teenager, about to give birth. She believed. The power of faith. Jesus said, have faith in God. According to your faith, be it done to you. In spite of facing difficulty and discouragement and the weight of the world pulling in an opposite direction, you can have faith. But faith undergirds authenticity, which means reliability, genuineness, realness, worthy of trust. The recent Springfield I visited and I did with certain other ministers, I encountered what I call authentic black women. Senate Majority Leader Kimberly Lightfoot and Deputy Myers-Martin. I call them authentic women. People will not accept the dynamism they represent, challenging the selfish power of certain earthlings. They have explosive faith these women exhibit is like fire of disconnect with things as they are, which support vested interests and rooted misconception, racism for example, ignoring black desires for economic development and its good consequences, authentic women make people restless or should make people restless before needless poverty, poor dwellings, against the starved misery of the descendants of former sharecroppers and similar pathologies. Enter authentic black women like Kimberly Lightford and Debbie Myers Martin and Mary Flowers, especially the latter two. Elizabeth and Mary brought forth a new era for mankind. Not a class child, or his precursor, but they brought forth a passion, these women did, a pity for the poor, the oppressed, like those who are determined to refund Westside Rockford, rebuild Westside Rockford, through faith, believing nothing is impossible with God. And those who do not have this will be replaced by a very difficult sort of man. Authentic black women will say, away with the fakes, the liars, the deceivers, the oppressors. Make way for a new and different man and woman like the Westside Rockford Revealers by exalting those of lower state. Of course, I stress our request for our $25 million in state funds from the state towards this effort. which is a pittance in a state budget of $45 billion. Authentic black women are paving the way. Sister Lightfoot made me happy to say, I'm gonna help you guys, Reverend Dotson and the others, get some of these millions and billions of dollars that are not coming your way. Thank you, sister. Thank you. Next, we will move to new committee reports and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. UNDER PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, ITEM NUMBER ONE IS THE APPROVAL OF THE $1 MILLION LONG-TERM LOAN FOR THE CONTINUED CAPITALIZATION OF ROCKFORD COMMUNITY INVESTMENT FUND, R-C-I-F, AS A COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTION, C-D-F-I, IN PARTNERSHIP WITH NORTHERN ILLINOIS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, N-I-C-D-C, ROCKFORD LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, R-L-D-C, AND LOCAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. And the approval of the following agreements, A, loan agreement, B, secured note, C, security agreement, and D, subordination and inter-creditor agreement. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Counsel, we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. No. Bonnie. 13 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Our committee has nine items. Yes. Item 1 the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish yield control with Blindham Drive yielding for Larson Avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Item 2 the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking any time restriction on both sides of Columbia Parkway from Stone Market Avenue to South Mulford Road a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Item 3 the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a handicapped parking restriction on the west side of 7th Street from 25 feet north of 13th Avenue to 45 feet north of 13th Avenue Thus repealing the two-hour parking restriction on the west side of 7th Street from 25 feet north of 13th Avenue to 45 feet north of 13th Avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and item 4 committee recommends the standing the traffic Commission's recommendation of no action on the request to establish stop control at the intersection of 17th Street and 13th Avenue item 5 on Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for an event space in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 1118 South Main Street. Jose Lopez is the applicant. Subject to amended conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 6. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for an event space in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 1118 South Main Street. OF A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR THE INSTALLATION OF A SOLAR FARM, FREE STANDING SOLAR PANEL RACKS AND SOLAR PANELS IN AN I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 4747 HARRISON AVENUE. SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS, THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. Number seven committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for an event space in a c2 Limited commercial zoning district at 31 42 and 31 50 North Rockton Avenue Vivian lot Is the applicant subject to conditions? The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 8, committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's denial for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store at 1706 Royal Street. Item 9, committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's denial for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store at 1706 Royal Street. Looks like corner at mini market is the applicant. And lastly, item nine, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink class A. In conjunction with the restaurant, bar, video gaming terminals, outdoor seating area, and 100% stock purchase at 3907 and 3909 Broadway. Dusty Booth Saloon and Eatery is the applicant. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Trina. Council, we have nine items before us. Is there any discussion on those nine items? Alderman Frost and then Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Mayor. With respect to item number seven, I was just curious about the alderman of 3150 North Rockton's position on this matter. Item seven? Yeah. Alderman Rose? Alderman Rose? So I'm the alderman in the area. Vivian Lott is applying for a special use permit for a, basically a small party venue that she wants to start up in the Rockton Center. She's gone through all the permits and worked with the city on getting those ready. She basically wants to host small birthday parties, small events. It's not a big space. it's something that's more for an intimate crowd but she's not applying for like any access to alcohol or having any alcohol at the venue so she's already made that in her agreement so I'm in support of number seven thank you Alderman Wilkins thank you your honor I have the same question about number eight the alderman's position on that So 1706 Real Street about the tobacco? Yes. Is that Toonberg or Toonberg? Alderman Toonberg? Yes. This has come up, this is I believe the third time this is coming up for council, up to council for vote. It's a we have been in contact I've been in contact with her attorney and the situation goes back a ways. The The area that it's in across the street has a gas station, a BP gas station, I believe it is, that has an array of food and services and such, liquor and tobacco included. directly behind this particular building that's up for vote tonight is a strip mall that years before had been on you know somewhat struggling they had vacancies there was a tobacco shop there that had been causing numerous problems with that being there individuals purchased and that mall and has since taken out that tobacco shop. And in the meantime, since it is fully now occupied, it has been a rather family friendly area in the sense of it does have an ice cream shop, does have a pizza shop, a breakfast place, a barber shop, it does have Rural on Tap. and we haven't had any major issues of any sort happening there either. It's been a neighborhood gathering spot for many in the neighborhood. So the owners of that area, along with some of the business owners, feel that it would be taking a step backwards to allow tobacco at this location. Some other neighbors have reached out to myself and also Alderman Loggeman. It is kind of an area that is frequented by many in the second ward. The North Highland Square Neighborhood Association is a very active neighborhood association. So we have had people reach out to us in opposition. I do know that the applicants have had people that have come out in support of, but it is still a delicate neighborhood in the sense that we still have issues over in Jackson Oaks neighborhood. Some of the homeowners there are really fighting for for the resurgence of that neighborhood, but at this time I am opposed to it due to the resurgence of the area of that strip mall that is there located right there and now is fully occupied with successful businesses. And like I said, they have been more in opposition to this. location offerings tobacco. Thank you. Thank you other questions and comments alderwoman McNeely, thank you on item number five and item seven both have Special use permit for event space and I would like the definition of an event space, please absolutely director Franzen So I would have to go back and see if there's a formal definition of the event space, but, you know, the events that are being approved are represented in the business plans. And so, you know, in both of these scenarios, they are represented as non-alcoholic driven birthday parties, parties. gatherings You know of that nature and in both cases limited to You know a midnight And time the reason why I asked mr. Mayor is because I had a business on West State and the strip mall on West State between Independence and Central And they, the individuals that purchased that business and started having special events, weddings, parties, and we were told that they couldn't do that at that location. So I'm trying to understand the difference between that business and what they were doing and these two. Okay. So I don't know if I can get that answer during this meeting or later. But either way, I would like to get an understanding of what the three, what those two, the two that we have up tonight is different from the one on West State. Thank you. I'll be happy to refresh my memory on that one and follow up with you afterwards. Thank you. Alderman Rose? Yeah, just to reiterate for number seven, Vivian Lott is – She's a small business owner. She owns the actual restaurant right next to the space. So part of the reason for the event space is so that larger groups that want to use the restaurant at some point, host parties, and also have some kind of catering as well, could potentially use that space as well. So she also runs Voices, which is right across from there. So she's got actually. lot of businesses in the immediate area where she decided that that was a good use of space there and and in is taking that adventure, which I don't know how she does it. She's an amazing small business person, but is very active in that area and has proven to be a leader. She also was hopeful that community events could happen there as well. So that's why I'm in support of it for number seven. Sure. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I just again would like to encourage people to vote yes for number nine, Dusty Boots. It's just a change in ownership, and Dusty Boots has been important to our community for decades. It's been around since the 50s, and we'd like to keep it going. So please vote yes for number nine. Thank you. Thank you. Alderwoman Prunty. Thank you. For items five and seven, they won't be able to sell liquor. Will they be able to bring their own liquor? Director Franzen. No, they would not be able to bring their own liquor. They would be able to have a caterer who has a catering liquor license to provide liquor on site for an event. Thank you. Any other discussions on the nine items before us tonight? Alderman McNeely. Thank you. On number seven to the director, is there a number of times that they can have the events catered in with liquor? Or is it? So it's your question, is there a maximum number of times that they could have a caterer utilize liquor? Maximum, yeah. Okay. Okay. I will have to refresh my memory if there was but with number sevens, especially in miss lot She was very specific that liquor events was not her target same way with number five Do we have any information on number five? So number five, a little different. There's not a limitation in terms, as long as they follow the protocols and have the appropriate catering license. When they originally came to ZBA, they did request a 2 AM closure. ZBA recommended that that was limited to a midnight in alignment with other special event spaces. But we would anticipate that potentially some of those events Would have liquor involved, but there's not a limit involved Any other questions of counsel for those nine items clerk will you please call the roll Alderman Durkee Logeman Toomber frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Canona's weeks McNeely alderman Bonnie items 1 through 4 14 eyes items 5 I'm sorry item 5 13 eyes 1 no item 6 14 eyes 7 and 8 13 eyes 1 No, I am 914 eyes. Thank you next. We're gonna go to Finance and Personnel Committee and alderman frost. Thank you number one the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of six million seventeen thousand four hundred and eighty eight dollars and ninety three cents as approved that the finance and personnel Committee meeting held on November 28th, 2022. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the fiscal year 2023 through 2027 capital improvement program. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Aye. Logaman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frente. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. 14 ayes. Thank you. And I just want to say a sincere thank you to Director Saunders, and I see Mr. Hankins in the audience, and the entire public works team for the amount of work that goes into regular jobs, but on top of that, this massive plan. It's a historic plan for the city of Rockford and really appreciated and needed. So thank you for the amount of work. Next, we'll go to unfinished business committee reports laid over, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you so much, Your Honor. Under Planning and Development Committee, item number one, the committee recommends approval of the proposed enterprise zone, number one, boundary amendment to delete parcels. The areas that staff is proposing to delete. the area roughly between Hudson Street South Horace Avenue Cunningham Road and Cunningham Street South Central Avenue Preston Street Stewart Avenue to Cunningham Street the area roughly between Tate Street Elm Street South Avon Street West State Street to Lakin Terrace the area roughly between North Independence Avenue along West State Street to Irving Avenue The area roughly on the west side of Illinois to north of Campus Hills Boulevard. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and this item was laid over November 21st. And then item number two, the committee recommends approval of the proposed enterprise zone number one boundary amendment to add parcels. The areas to be added are as follows. The area roughly Prairie Road, Pelly Road, Illinois 2 and US 20. The area roughly Latham Street, Bennington Road, North Main Street and West Riverside Boulevard. The area roughly Alita Street, Cameron Avenue, North Rockton Avenue, and Overdean Avenue. The area roughly Point Avenue, Center Terrace, South Alpine Road, Sequoia Road, and Newburgh Road. The area roughly Lacey Street, Wills Avenue, 11th Street, and Reed Avenue. The area roughly Christina Street, 15th Avenue, Seminary Street, and 18th Avenue. The area roughly Christina Street, 15th Avenue, Magnolia Street and 18th Avenue. The area roughly Cunningham Road, South Central Avenue and Morgan Street. The area roughly 14th Street, 19th Avenue, 15th Street, and 20th Avenue. The area roughly Falcon Road, Leonard Road, 11th Street, and New Milford School Road. The area roughly North Main Street, Shepherd Trail, the Rock River, and John Woods Drive. The area roughly Edgemont Street, Sharon Avenue, North Rockton Avenue, and Lawndale Avenue. The area roughly South Main Street, Loomis Street, Rock Street, and Knowlton Street. And the area roughly 6th Street, 18th Avenue, 11th Street, and 20th Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, so we have two items before us all the woman Hoffman. Thank you mayor I would like to make an amendment to number two to the committee report to approve modifying the boundaries of the Rockford Enterprise Zone number one to add certain parcels I'm asking for the approval of modifying the boundaries of the Rockford Enterprise Zone number one to add certain parcels on the agenda for consideration for tonight's City Council meeting and I move to amend the committee report under unfinished business committee reports laid over. Rome Roman numeral 7 a item 3 approval of modifying the boundaries of the Rockford Enterprise Zone number one to add certain parcels to include additional commercial area west to Parkside Drive and the commercial area south of Broadway from East Moreland Avenue to Sylvan Road in area a4. Thank you. We have a motion and a We have a motion. We have a second. So right now we're just dealing with the amendment There's a motion in a second. Is there any discussion on that amendment seeing no discussion all those in favor of adding Said parcels say aye those opposed That passes next up. We have two items with item number two being amended Is there any discussion on item one or item two alderwoman? Thank Thank You mr. Mayor I don't intend to vote in the positive on either one of these items. And the reason why for item one, which I discussed briefly with the director, as well as you, Mr. Mayor, we have on there from South Central Avenue to Preston Street to Stewart and to Cunningham. South Central Avenue and Preston Street are, ARE BUSY STREETS AND THEY HAVE NOT SO MUCH SOUTH CENTRAL. YEAH, SOUTH CENTRAL HAS COMMERCIAL AS WELL AS THE NUMBER OF CARS RUNNING THROUGH THERE. SO I'M NOT SURE WHY THE ENTERPRISE ZONE WOULD BE TAKEN FROM THAT SECTION. THE NEXT ONE IS THAT NORTH INDEPENDENCE AVENUE ALONG WEST STATE STREET TO IRVING AVENUE. Again, I don't know what's being proposed for West State Street since we have redone West State Street. And we have on the north side a lot of vacant land. And I would hope that we have some businesses along West State Street in the near future. So that's part of the reason why I'm not supporting one or two, one and two, I hope that in the near future that would be reconsidered for the Enterprise Zone. Thank you. Is there any other further discussion on items one or two? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. I'm sorry, Logerman. Toonberg. Ross. Serena. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Minx. McNeely. No, I'm one and two. Alderman Bonney. Aye. 13 eyes on both. Excellent. Thank you. We have nothing under code and regulation or finance and personnel, so we'll move to officers' reports. And I just want to first start out by saying sincere congratulations to Chief Matt Knott, who just recently accepted a position to be the Green Bay Metro Fire Chief. You have served our community incredibly well, Chief Knott, for 25 years. You served our community incredibly well for more than 25 years, and they are really lucky to have you. So thank you for your service. Secondly, I'd like to call on Chief Redd. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd ask that we take a moment of silence for retired Deputy Chief Sam Gaynor. He served the Rockford Police Department from 1958 to 1993, and he passed away at his home yesterday. Thank you. Thank you, Chief. Other officers' reports? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I'm saddened to have learned this morning of the passing of Allen Brown last night in Memphis. Allen served as Rockford Public Schools superintendent from 2000 until 2003. He had started his career as a shop teacher in downstate Illinois and had served as superintendent in Milwaukee Public Schools before taking over in Rockford, Tennessee. as the People Who Care discrimination lawsuit was coming to an end. Among other challenges of that era, Allen led the passage of four referendums to keep the public schools here in Rockford financially solvent as court-ordered taxes were disappearing and a judgment to repay tax protesters had to be satisfied. Allen later served as the director of the Burpee Museum of Natural History and as local business owner, restoring classic cars, dealing in antiques and bringing dining and event venues like Taco Betty's and the standard to previously vacant downtown storefronts. I had the pleasure of knowing Alan, first as a journalist and later as a community volunteer and friend. He always brought an infectious level of enthusiasm to whatever venture he was involved in. I think Alan saw them really as adventures. He wasn't from here, but he really fell in love with Rockford, and I think I knew him well enough to know that he wouldn't mind me saying that his love of Rockford interfered with two marriages, two women who preferred to live other places. And we have lost a spirited advocate, community advocate in Alan Brown, and I would request also a moment of silence in his memory. Thank you for sharing that. I was not aware of that. Really sad. Other reports? Yes. Taffia, it can't be someone else passing. It's got to be a rule at this point. Alderman Quinones. Yeah, I'd just like to take a minute here to thank the mayor and the public works department for meeting with the business owners in the 6th Street area and the Broadweed area with their concerns, and they really appreciate it. Absolutely. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Joe Studd. I drove down through the city last night. to see the beautiful lights at the conservatory and then across the street for Festival of Lights. It's just a wonderful thing that's happening in the city. For the people that don't live here, that drive through, I can imagine what they must think, but for us that live here too, and thanks to the organizers from the Fourth of July Committee, Ted O'Donnell and his partner, and then the people, of course, from the Park District. Just a great thing for our community this time of year. Thank you, Your Honor. Absolutely. Two amazing attractions for us who live here and those who are, I would also add, Anderson Japanese Gardens. Now that they're, I see Alderman Meeks wanting to jump in, but absolutely. We're really fortunate. Other reports? Okay. We'll move on. Next we have appointments laid over there's eight listed only seven are up this evening appointment appointment of Julissa Bondurant to the civilian oversight board and Appointment of Earl Curry to the Civilian Oversight Board. Appointment of Aaron Baden to the Civilian Oversight Board. Appointment of Reginald Alexander to the Civilian Oversight Board. Appointment of Bill Hatfield to the Civilian Oversight Board. Appointment of Sonji Collins to the Civilian Oversight Board. And appointment of Jonathan Medina to the Civilian Oversight Board. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Alderman Rose. Yes. Just had a question what it makes sense to suspend rule 18 for to do number eight to do them together that is For the council is that a motion? Yeah, I'll make the motion. We have a motion. We have a second to suspend rule 18 for Item 8 so let's take that first is there any discussion on the amendment to suspend that rule and Seeing no discussion all those in favor of suspending rule 18 for item number eight say aye aye Those opposed okay, so now we have all eight items up before us Is there any further discussion on those eight items alderman dirt? Thank you your honor I'm gonna make one last ditch effort and commenting on this oversight board and which I'm kind of troubled with. I'm going to be opposing the civilian candidates, not because they're bad people. I looked at their resumes, and they all look like fine individuals. But I'm going to oppose them because I'm strongly opposed to the creation of the board. It took some notes to keep me from rambling. Otherwise, I'll be here all night. But civilian oversight boards are nothing new. They've been around for about five, Since 1980s are about 40 at that time right now. They're over 200 So I was curious as to why the number has increased and looking over at my senses that their creation is Following a trend or a narrative and that their creation is to more placate a crowd that is not by appeased often by factual finding when you look at news clips many of these people are often looking for a result that fits a narrative There is a distinctive difference between an examination of events or evidence to arrive at the truth rather than pushing an investigative process or method until one gets the results they seek. And how many times we've heard it here that we get the Integrity Task Force, our internal review, only to be berated by public speakers calling for federal investigations. Mark Twain said that no power of evidence will ever persuade an idiot. In the city of Rockford, I think our current system works, and the creation of a board, in my mind, which I've said before, seems to be a solution looking for a problem. We've noted in the recent past the ability of our police department and city to effectively identify and address the rare police officer that has had some deficiencies. The main driver for oversight boards, as I've looked and read... Is that it arise from poor relationships between the community, but I believe our police department does an effective. It does effectively engage all of our community. There will always be a vocal minority who will disagree with that. But the citizenry are looking for. We all agree are looking for openness being forthright objective. They do seek justice. I believe law enforcement community in this region does this. And when this does not happen, the community officers that exist this council, the police commissioners are the means by which those who are underrepresented are then represented and heard. This has happened even to our former police chief. who we took a look at at some of the comments and statements and maybe the beliefs that he had. So work for our chief. Citizens must be free to engage law enforcement and be heard. However, this, I believe, can be done via existing or improving our existing conduits. Tonight we're being asked to approve these candidates I don't know. I don't know much about them other than the paper resume we received and the word of the selection committee went through This process. I know it was a lot of hard work and a lot of good thought But the question is was it without bias? so if we can't trust the that the current and internal review process of the police department or the regional integrity or the state integrity task forces, the state's attorney, are without bias? How do we trust that the selection process and these candidates themselves are without bias? So what's magical about trusting the committee, the members of this board, That they will be without bias as opposed to the current review that's in place. Where does doubt end and trust begin? If we create the board, and we've already created it, but if we constitute this board, we're basically stating that there are no law enforcement officers. this region that are capable of an insightful objective just and thorough review of Officer involved events that they can make transparent and available to the public I wonder about this a civilian volunteering on this board. I went in medicine I went through eight years of training before anybody would allow me to put a scalpel on somebody's abdomen I went to through two more years of training before I got boarded and Then, it was 10 years of study, and only after about five to ten more years did I actually feel comfortable reviewing the actions and the nuances of medical care in another physician. That's 15 to 20 years of experience before I felt comfortable reviewing the actions and the nuances in my own field. There's a story once told of a chip that was put in dry dock because there was a problem with the propeller turning. It appeared seized. The local engineers couldn't solve the dilemma. They called for an out-of-town expert who looked over the driveshaft. He took out a mallet, struck the driveshaft, and lo and behold, the propeller turned when the engine was fired up. The engineer then submitted his bill to the shipowner. It was $20,000. The shipowner was annoyed by such a large bill, For what appeared to be just a simple, straightforward task. He asked the engineer to justify his bill, and the engineer said it was $10 for the mallet, $19,990 for the training, years of experience that it took to know precisely where to swing that mallet. Too often there are those who look at a task, look at this review and fail to see the depth of insight that it's going to take to effectively accomplish the task. Especially reviewing the actions of police officers in the field. It is my reason for objecting to the board. I do not think that they can appropriately swing the mallet. Each one of us here has a job and has a career. How many of us want to be reviewed by a board with minimal training, no experience in your field, and then they show up and swing the hammer in your direction and evaluate your performance? I've experienced similar things in a malpractice trial, which we won, just so you know. I was expected to convey to 12 people elements of the performance of medicine and its application that I required over years of training. A good percentage of the time, these trials are determined by who is the most believable or likable, rather than the good practice of medicine. And I would add that every malpractice trial in the state of Illinois has to be reviewed by a physician, an experienced, qualified physician. I just don't see any advantage of the creation of this board other than to satisfy the Twitterverse. This committee will be asked to assess things such as domestic violence and the chaos that ensues. I've only seen people in the ER lose their nut, and it's impressive. It's in a controlled situation. They're usually in the room, and they're generally outnumbered, and there's no weapons. And it's complete chaos. On the streets, the scenes are rapidly evolving. They're chaotic, virtually impossible to control, and their weapons or the suspicion of weapons involved. And no civilian board, no matter how they are oriented, and I don't think they're trained. I actually think it's just an orientation, will glean enough sufficient insight to be able to effectively evaluate the officer-involved events. Anybody can be a Monday morning quarterback, and especially anybody can look at things in slow motion and take a look at this. The board will not be legally trained, although one of the candidates is a lawyer. They won't have subpoena power, and most of them will not understand how to handle evidence appropriately. The question then arises as to what happens if this board disagrees with the internal affairs of the police department or the integrity task force if it's called in, or even the state's attorney. Do we create a third committee as a tiebreaker? Is this committee's, the Oversight Board, conclusions unenforceable? Do they land up in the officer's employment file? Since they will be made public, can they be legally used in an action against the city or the police officer? Is the state's attorney obliged to review their report? If their findings comport with the form of police review... Will this oversight board then evolve to be used to provide credibility to the police department? Who carries more credibility than in a tie or, I'm sorry, in a case where one disagrees with the finding than the other? Who do we believe? Community opinion, while important, doesn't translate to effective, appropriate policing. The over creation, I worry sometimes about the over creation of committees. It sometimes makes an organization look weak. But it's my belief, actually, that at some point in time when the spell breaks, folks will realize that this may not be the best of ideas. So I'd ask that the council members also look at the body of assessment. Look at the stuff that's printed over the actions of these boards. In a significant number of instances, these boards try to evolve to gain more responsibility, more oversight, more power, and actually request subpoena privileges. So because of that, I can't support... These fine individuals, I appreciate the process and all the work and the insights that were drawn to bear. You know, I'm somewhat uncomfortable, you know, doing that, but I think it's, in my opinion, that's the right thing for me to do. Thanks for listening. I know it was long. Appreciate your thoughts and opinion. So, though I may disagree with the vast majority of them, so does the written document. I will turn it over to Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I do appreciate your commentary, Alderman Durkee. Can you, I don't know if this question is for the legal director or for our police chief, but can you just maybe refresh our memory on what authority this board will have is it just to recommend or if you could just explain that to us that'd be great director Martin thank you sure what the board will be doing is reviewing completed case files completed internal reviews So, it will be after an incident has happened. If it was a complaint, it would be after a complaint is received. After it's been investigated internally, if there's a recommendation for discipline, it will be reviewing whether or not discipline was imposed and whether it was imposed appropriately and making a findings. Hopefully all of those things were in line with our policies and practices. It would not be something board that's going to insert itself into the process or You know delaying action on an employee so we would hopefully be reviewing these at least on a quarterly quarterly basis in chunks and and the real power of the committee is going to be outwardly reporting to the public, both on complaints but also on the automatic cases where there's significant use of force, whether or not the policies and procedures were applied appropriately and fairly and the outcomes were appropriate. uh maybe not what what people would always want to see but whether or not the decisions that were made were in line with the procedures and in the events when they are not there be a public report submitted as to what what the uh where we where we fell short and potentially a recommendation to make some sort of change especially if we start seeing reoccurrence of uses of force inappropriately used in a different in certain situations recommendations could be that additional training be made for your specific officers or group of officers so it's really a long game it's identifying processes and really meant for improvement overall as opposed to one-off reviews and inserting ourselves into a process where the chief of police really needs to be the final arbiter of the officers under her command May I, Mayor? Yeah. And what sort of training do we plan to offer these individuals, please? So the ordinance itself has quite a few trainings that are laid out. I don't have them all memorized. I'll rattle them off, and Chief Fred, if I miss some, please jump in. We'll make sure that they undergo the curriculum of the Citizen Police Academy, which is quite extensive. We will also undergo training in forest science. They'll be trained in all of our policies, police policies in general, from the legal department. They'll be training in the law related to use of force, what is appropriate and what is not appropriate. I don't know if I've missed any specific trainings, but I'd have to check the ordinance to make sure. I'm certainly training and the Freedom of Information Act on Freedom sorry training in the open meetings act to make sure all of our meetings are conducted above board and Going to closed session when we required them to be in closed session Trained in making sure that all everything including records are kept confidential as well So I believe I've hit them all but I'm not 100% certain. Thank you. Thank you alderman Rose. I Yeah, just to kind of clear up some things, I heard from Alderman Durkee about this being an evaluation on our police officers. And one thing that I kind of think about is that I don't see it that way in the extent that, you know, a lot of the complaints that are driven against officers, not just here but around the country, oftentimes have something to do with an injury or some kind of unprofessional – status that come with them. And when I look at it from a perspective of being a public, or being in the public eye with my teaching degree, is yeah, I am evaluated by other professionals in the field, similar to what officers would get evaluated by other officers. But if there was a situation where a teacher or any kind of profession where someone is injured within an incident, there most certainly is some kind of outside review that often takes place, whether that's in the business world or if that's in an environment that is corporate, And so I kind of look at this differently from his perspective is that we're not going in there and saying that civilians are going to evaluate officers. I just want to make that very clear. That evaluation process takes place within our department clearly. This is a second look at complaints that are happening that oftentimes – result in an injury or some kind of lawsuit where you know, transparency can take place within a civilian body to say, you know what, maybe this is something we need to take a second look at. And so I'm in favor of this because of that. I would hope that any organization would have an outside body looking at these types of complaints because what it does is it provides the transparency needed and it provides that outside view where, you know, Very similar to the corporate world that most entities use in a professional manner. Thank you alderman Beach Oftentimes this council was called into closed session to discuss matters that we're talking about here where there's lawsuits and injury and we have our lawyers and on our staff and when we need outside help, we hire outside law enforcement to talk to us about what the situation is. And that often comes after there's a serious evaluation from the inside of our department, from internal affairs, from our police and fire commission. And the thing that bothers me the most, and I've expressed this to several officers, some are retired and not here now, but what happens if we come to a conclusion that doesn't match the same conclusion as this board, as Alderman Durkee has mentioned. I'm concerned about the perception that comes, becomes reality in the minds of people, and I think it does tend to demote the ability of our department to come to a conclusion to present to this community. And it just seems to me like, well, we don't see it the same way you see it. Our citizen board sees it a different way. And even though you've done this way, we want to tell you we don't like it or we think it would be something different. What happens at that point in time? How does that bring the community together? How does that make more harmony and peace among the people? Which I heard earlier on, this is partly the reason they're forming this, is to bring more information to the public. So I don't get it in terms of... of that kind of problem. I mean, who wins in this situation? I mean, if we're trying to be kind to our public and give them good information, if we have a Donnybrook between the top of our police department and this board and they disagree, how does that solve? Where do we win from that? How do we, when I say build more trust? with the citizens and the department. I don't see how that works. I wish somebody could tell me that, how it works, but I don't see it. Well, thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak. I'm concerned as well. Well, I would agree with some comments. I would also add I think perception and misinformation certainly breaks down trust. I mean, just be clear, the ordinance doesn't say a lot of what the concerns have been brought up this evening. I mean, the chief is the chief, and the chief is in charge. The chief does the disciplining. We have a committee that's going to be looking at holistic changes over kind of a macro scale in conjunction with working with the chief in the Rockford Police Department, not overdoing anything that the chief has ruled on. The chief is our chief, no matter who it is, and that should be respected. And not all people who support civilian oversights have that same model, nor support that, but that's a model that has been proposed and is already approved by this body. There's a They too will also be able to go into closed session. They too will be staffed by the City of Rockford's Legal Department. I mean, a lot of these things we're talking about just aren't in the actual ordinance that was already approved. Like the state's attorney is not going to be reviewing these meetings and these cases. That's just not going to happen. So we have a lot of other speakers, but we should be mindful of how we're talking about something that's already approved and written down. Alderman Bonney, then Alderman Meeks, then Alderman Prunty, then Alderman Frost. Thank you, Mayor. I also appreciate Alderman Durkee's comments and his thoughts, and particularly because I remember in our discussions in approving the ordinance – i i clearly remember uh arguing for the fact that we were approving the ordinance but we didn't have a civilian oversight board until we made this action tonight until we actually seat people on that board so i feel like yes we do have an ordinance but this is really the last last step i don't want to get into all of the reasons why we maybe should or shouldn't have it but clearly we We've gotten to this point due to the lack of trust that certain elements of the community have and this is an attempt to build that trust that has the result of a lot of hard work by the legal department and the mayor's office and I think that the You know why you while any of us can have reservations about how it might work that you know, we don't know that until we try it and I guess but my question is is Should we decide at some point in the future that the perceived disadvantages of this Versus the perceived advantages are in fact in fact Disadvantages that outweigh the advantages. I wouldn't hesitate to entertain a move to dissolve Something that we've created and I'm I guess my question is assuming since this is not something We're required to do by state law How would we? Unring the spell if we decide it's a project that is not serving is not we're not well served by Overall, is it a simple majority vote of this body? Yeah, I believe it would be a motion to repeal the ordinance and dissolve the board. Thank you Thank you so much. I Just want to thank Everyone you know really for just pushing this forward. I know there were organizations and people and individuals that Really pushed for this to happen for many many years and In particular I want to thank in double in double ACP who put a lot of effort into making this happen I too appreciate the opinions but I i guess i'll say however i think that it's really important that we are listening to our citizens when they're saying that this is what they need to feel the transparency and the trust and i believe that this is a step towards creating that for this community and i'm just very thankful that we have I'm going to push this through despite many of the same opinions that have been stated since we started this conversation on this floor. So I'm just very thankful and I hope that it all passes and goes through well the appointments. thank you before we move on there was uh important topics i think we should address uh director meyer if you don't mind could you address for uh the body the questions regarding pending litigation or even pending criminal cases sure so the by the ordinance itself we would not be having this board review anything that's uh which is an ongoing criminal investigation going and there certainly would not be Having the board review when there's pending litigation or if we believe there's threatened litigation The legal department would be able to remove those those cases from review until that is wrapped up We would certainly don't want to interfere with any criminal case or in any way jeopardize the city's position in a Pending or threatened civil case. Thank you other woman printing. Thank you. I would like to call the question If one more speaker, would you allow that one more in? Oh Director Meyer, what's the next steps for call the question? I think of a vote on calling the question and terminating debate on the subject, okay Well, I should do a roll call Clerk could you please call the roll on calling the question for this item? I'm in Turkey Logoman Toonberg cross Serena printy. Yes Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks yes, we nearly Bonnie 113 eyes Thank you all the men all the woman printed you have any other no, I guess that would have been opposite of your motion Alderman frost and I do feel all the room front east pain What geez I didn't know I was I'm not I promise I won't be nearly as long wounded as others. Um, I I just wanted to indicate that again As all the manderky was and others. I was adamantly opposed to the civilian oversight board I don't like the idea that I don't like the process of it I don't like the procedure of it and I know mayor that you and I get along on many items But I really disagree on the issue with the chief. Yes, the chief makes the ultimate decision but now we have a public group of that is going to politicize what the chief does. And that was my big beef about this going forward. And having said that, the ordinance passed, like you said. It's the ordinance. And so it's kind of turned into a little sour grapes here tonight. And you've noticed that too? But it did pass. But I think Alderman Bonney brought up a good point. And I think it's very important for all of us collectively to realize this if for whatever reason Things aren't working with this committee Board whatever you want to call it Commission If things aren't working the way that we thought that they should be working Then I think it would be prudent for us to revisit it then and perhaps Amend it modify it eliminate it whatever it may take to make it better for all of us our residents the complainants the police department itself and And I think hopefully we'll have the ability to do that as a group. And I don't think that's... forbidden you know i mean i've been on the wrong side or the losing side i should say of many votes and the last thing i ever want to do is is come back to the mayor or mr cagnoni or mr myers and say i told you so because i don't i'd rather not do that right and it's happened and obviously i've also been on this side of something an ordinance that we've passed it and then later on i i regret or say you know what it's really not working out that well and so i think so long as we collectively as a group Understand that we may have different opinions on the creation or whatever, but but like the mayor said it is what it is and and so just be mindful of that and just With the idea that if it's not working out that we have the ability to come back and do something about it and That's it. Thank you. Thank you appreciate the comments just Sorry to chime in. It will be my last time doing it, but I absolutely agree with your comments about the politicization of some of these matters, and it can be frustrating. I think one of the benefits to me of a board like this is there is so much work that our officers do that no one knows about. I would venture to say the vast majority of people in this room would have a hard time going through from that use of force to all the way through how it's examined, how thorough it is, all the double checks, triple checks that take place, the handoffs of reviews on the internal side. And I think one benefit to me of this body is. Citizens now are going to be able to understand how thoroughly some of these items are reviewed. And they'll also come to, it's been on our website, but the number one group that complains about police in the city of Rockford is the city of Rockford's police department. Most citizens probably don't know that fact. And I think that getting out and seeing that will just be another of the benefits of this body. Alderman Tunberg, sorry. Thank you. Thanks, Mayor. I appreciate some of the sentiments of Alderman Frost, and I think that part of the point I wanted to make was that obviously we had spirited debate when this was coming up at the time. I was on the losing end of the vote myself, and I can live with that but So here tonight obviously We're not voting on whether it's the commit whether it's going to go through as an ordinance or not It's already been put through now. We're just voting on the individuals on the committee I understand if there are somebody votes no on it It's it's more in the form of a protest to the committee it itself, and that's fine My question though is if an individual, and refresh my memory if this was already put out there, if we do find an individual that's on this committee, and I see that's staggered, but nonetheless an individual that may be found to have biases. You know, I know that the committee that was formed to vet these individuals did the best they could. What is the process if an individual is found out to be a little bit more biased than we had thought? Thank you Did you have it? Sorry? Yeah. No, what do we do? What's the process on director Meyer if there's an individual who? Is deemed to have a bias? What would be the next steps if someone wanted to remove them from the board the mayor's office would have the ability to remove them and I believe I believe They protest it would be with the consent of the council as well, so it would I'm sorry yes So it would involve council interaction. Yes, okay, all right. Thank you. Thank you alderman turkey Thank you your honor. I won't be as long just a couple of clarifications one is As it relates to the lawsuit, my comment was they would not be reviewing a lawsuit. My comment was, is there review that doesn't comport with our department of, let's say, a level 4 force? Procedure wasn't followed in their opinion. Our department says it was. Is that discoverable? Then the other and I agree with alderman Rose outside review is always good. It's always great My question is not the review. It's the the reviewers. It's the guy swinging the mallet That's that's my that's my problem. So we agree with the review Just who's who's doing it? Thank you director mark. I Again, you know, if we had a case where there was a complaint made or we believe a complaint is going to be made, and typically we have an idea, that's a case that we withheld and we would not put ourselves in a position to have it reviewed so that any of the... Board members would be called as witnesses the same token They are reviewing documents that are going to be discoverable in a civil case anyways, and they're by and large public documents, right police reports Potentially body camera footage footage that would somebody reviews. It's the same thing They're not reviewing things that other people wouldn't get so I You know, we'll be pretty vigilant about it. We typically have an idea when something's going to come down the pike, and we'll pull those out. So I could see there potentially could be a situation where if one slips by that you have a plaintiff's attorney who's going to call board members. But, you know, the information is going to be public anyway, so there won't be much benefit. Thank you. Any other reports? Yes. Alderman tumor. Sorry, y'all one follow-up on that on the answer to my question is If that individual is or an individual is found to be blatantly bias enough to deserve attention On whether they should be on the board or not Does it and does it take the mayor to initiate the action? To then come to council or can counsel initiate the action? to Take that going forward So it is mayor initiated the mayor reports it to the City Council And then the City Council would vote vote on it Okay, so if the if if members of the council had Felt they had an issue with a member of the board. It would then it would then take you the mayor to a Bring it before that comes on I'd encourage if anyone ever has an issue with any of these members or any other members that we have appointed, please bring them forward. Okay, I would I would hope that the Mayor would give the council that Respect I imagine you would to allow that to be brought then to council. I if the council or member or members of council had an issue Enough to feel that that they would like to be it brought brought in front of council. Yeah Yeah, and truthfully, Alderman Toomer, what I envision myself doing is talking to the chief who's going to be at every single meeting, talking to our staff who's been staffing those meetings, the legal department, and finding out I won't be at every meeting. I'll be able to review minutes and occasionally go to a meeting, but take word, A, of the council, but also of the staff that's at those meetings into consideration. Righto. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you. I was just wondering, there's been talk about maybe bringing it back for review. Should we be more formal with that and ask that a sunset provision be attached to this for some time out, whether it's, I know there's so many weeks before this group would even begin. There'll be months before it begins. Months, okay, so we want to send it out for 15 months or something like that so that we'd have to automatically come back to this group to analyze what's going on and either approve it on again or take it away. So they'll be providing city council an annual report. At that time, I think if a council member thought that the board needed tweaks or staff, truthfully, I mean, we'll all learn something. So if staff or council or the chief sees that something needs to be tweaked or changed or in extreme cases something more significant done, that would be probably an appropriate time for council to do that. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Prenti, no more? Okay. I'm joking. Seeing no more discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll on item one? And just a reminder, council, you are voting on all seven appointments plus the one appointment for the historic preservation. Alderman Durkee. Logaman. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's weeks McNeely, honey next we're going to finance and personnel committee and we'll go to alderman frost I was gonna ask we could defer this to next week, but I bet that's gonna be number one the committee recommends approving award a bid for well number nine to surplus a Management of Rockford initial contract value of $289,559.50 with a 5% reduction each subsequent year following the duration of the contract. The contract is for five years with two additional extensions. The funding sources the water placement improvement account number two the committee recommends approval of the award a bit for the decorative anodized light pole Shrouds to moderate aluminum of Terre Haute, Indiana for an estimated value of seventy five thousand dollars based on unit pricing The contract ratio is through December 31 2023 with four possible one-year extensions annual price adjustments for CPA CPI we considered a contract renewal only the funding sources a traffic division operating budget and Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the plumbing and restroom modifications for Fire Station 9 to Larson & Larson in the amount of $130,850. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan funds. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for fire department radio receivers and Motorola in the amount of $262,913.92. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan funds. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for the air cascade systems for fire stations one, five, and six to air one equipment in the amount of $167,135. The funding source is the ARPA funds. Number six, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract for four post lifts, for fire maintenance facility to Howard Lee and Sons in the amount of $66,990. The funding source is the ARPA funds. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract for vehicle and equipment repair parts to Lakeside International for the estimated contract value of $95,000 based on unit pricing. The contract is through December 31, 2023, with two possible annual extension options. The funding source is the Equipment Fund Operating Budget. number eight the committee recommends approval award non-competitive contract to john d or equipment parts to west side tractor for an estimated value of one hundred thousand dollars based on unit pricing the contract races through december 31 2023 with two possible annual extension options the funding source is the equipment fund operating budget Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the award of the contract extension for the street sweeping to Elgin sweeping services for an estimated contract value of $571,552 based on unit pricing. The original award was for three years with two additional one-year extensions, and this is for the second and final annual extension. The funding source is the street division operating budget. number 10 the committee recommends approval of a change order for city yards building demolition package to end track the original amount was 834 000 the change orders for 127 972 0.045 removal of existing miscellaneous debris piles there was also some timber construction although we looks like it was discovered the building was reinforced concrete And there was also some asbestos abatement as well. The funding source is the ARPA funds. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the award of contract extension for banking services to associated bank, for commercial banking, credit card, lockbox, and for water and ambulance. automated pay by phone for water bills and the city's line of credit. The contract amount is $64,000 after earnings offset fees paid. The contract extension is for the second and final two-year extension. The funding source is the finance department operating budget and the water fund. Number 12, the committee recommends approval of a contract renewal for the third-party administrator for a medical hospital for the 2023 health insurance plan, the Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois, for various rates. The total estimated annual administrative costs are $688,210 based on 908 PPO participants and 271 HSA. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the health insurance fund. Number 13, the committee recommends approval of contract renewal for dental benefits to metropolitan life insurance for various rates. At the current enrollment level, the total estimated annual premium will be $1,246,737. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the health insurance fund. Number 14, the committee records approval of a contract renewal for employer-paid group term life insurance to Metropolitan Life as well. The total cost, the annual premium is $39,466. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the health insurance fund. Number 15 is the approval and acceptance of the DCEO LIHEAP grant modification for additional funds of $47,000. It does not require a cost match. And this allows clients to alleviate utility cost burdens. Number 16 is also the acceptance and approval of the DCEO LIHEAP state supplemental grant modification for additional funds in the amount of $2,350,000. The grant does not require a cost match. And the grant term is from July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023. I place these 16 items before you. Well done. 16 items is there any discussion on those 16 items your alderman frost thank you with respect to number 10. um thank you i'm just curious uh with respect uh to the the way the building at city yards was built um did the change order come about because we didn't know that it was reinforced concrete versus timber i'm just I'm just curious, I'm just curious, what led to this? Someone would have to have a great question. Director Saunders. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Frost. If you're familiar with this particular area at City Yards, it's the original Emerson-Branningham admin building. It's kind of most obvious. It's the structure that has kind of an exterior porticochet. And when we originally designed this demolition package, We treated this as a timber construction, much like the rest of the buildings on site. It was a facility that was identified in the RED-X program under the fire department's operating procedures. And when our contractor actually got into the demolition process, identified that it's actually reinforced concrete because we were assuming it was timber construction and was structurally unsound to enter, They approached us with the idea of abating the existing asbestos and then obviously tied to the concrete construction would trigger some additional labor to deconstruct it. So at that point, that's when we brought forth this change order. Thank you. And just because it looks like Kevin Haas has a question, can you define a port-a-cochet? Yes, it's a structure in which vehicles may drive under when entering a building. Thank you. Thank you. I think Oliver and Toonberg has one at his home. All right, we have 16 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 16 items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. Don't you have one of those? Aye. Start to alderman McNeely alderman Bonnie items 1 2 14 eyes items 3 4 5 13 eyes 1 nose item 6 through 9 14 eyes and him 10 13 eyes 1 No items 11 through 16 14 eyes. Thank you. I Next we'll move to planning and development committee and older woman meets. Thank you so much your honor Under planning and development committee item number one and ordinance approving the million dollar long-term loan for the continued capitalization of Rockford Community Investment Fund as the community development financial institution in partnership with Northern, Illinois Community Development Corporation Rockford local development corporation and local financial institutions and the approval of the following agreements a A, loan agreement, B, secured note, C, security agreement, and D, subordination and inter-creditor agreement. And then we move to item two, which is an ordinance approving an enterprise zone, number one, boundary amendment to delete parcels. Shall I continue all of it at this point? Nope, you've read it already. Thank you. And then item three, an ordinance approving an enterprise zone, number one, boundary amendment to add parcels. That'll be it. You were Alderman Frost. I would have had you read them. Okay, we have three items before us. Is there any discussion? And I believe item three was the one that's been amended already this evening, so three items before us. Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Aye. Alderman Logman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frente. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Alderman Bonnie 11 I'm sorry 12 eyes 1 no, thank you next we'll go to coding regulation committee and alderwoman Trina. Thank you your honor Item number one an ordinance establishing yield control with Blyndham Drive yielding for Larson Avenue item 2 an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on both sides of Columbia Parkway from Stow Market Avenue to South Mulford Road item 3 an ordinance establishing a handicap parking restriction on the west side of 7th Street from 25 feet north to the 13th Avenue to 45 feet north of 13th Avenue, thus repealing the two-hour parking restriction on the west side of 7th Street from 25 feet north of 13th Avenue to 45 feet north of 13th Avenue. Item 4 in ordinance approving a special use permit for an event space in the C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1118 South Main Street. Item 5 in ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in I-1 light industrial zoning district at 4747 Harrison Avenue. item 6 and ordinance is approving a special use permit for an event space in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 3142 and 3150 North Rockton Avenue Lastly item 7 and ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink class a in conjunction with the restaurant bar video gaming terminals Outdoor seating area and 100% stock purchase at 3907 and 3909 Broadway. Thank you. Thank you We have seven items before us. Is there any discussion on those seven items clerk? Will you please call the roll? Oh them in Turkey Logoman Toomer frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones makes McNeely Bonnie I'm one through three 14 eyes and I'm for 13 eyes one no five 14 eyes six 13 eyes one no and seven 14x. Thank you. You think we're done, but we are not and Alderman Frost, do you have an item? I do, Your Honor. I'm sorry. I would make a motion this time that we convene into closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters. Thank you. We have a motion to convene into closed session. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye. All right. We'll recess for closed session. Okay. We are now back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Aye. There'll be eight. Logeman. Here. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Brother. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Here. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Have a great night.