And Jeannie Odom is mayor pro tem this evening. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? The ayes have it. Chair Odom. Thank you. You're not giving away this easy. Have a seat.
 I don't know if our viewers realize it, but tonight is our legal director, Patrick Hayes, last night as our legal director and presence here at a Rockford City Council meeting. I want all my colleagues to join me and staff in making it as painful as possible. I have a list of questions that require extremely complicated responses.
 In all seriousness, I think everyone will join me in saying it has been a privilege to know you. I'm not sure who I will have my Friday afternoon arguments with.
 No way to get pain pills for my migraines anymore. But I want you to know it has absolutely been a pleasure. I thank you. I'm sure everyone at home and a lot of people who don't even know, thank you for your service to the city of Rockford, your exemplary legal mind, and your friendship on a personal note. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 speech. So, I wasn't expecting the opportunity to speak. But I've had this conversation with a lot of folks. It's been my great privilege to have been appointed by Mayor Morrisey and supported by the City Council for 11 and a half years. The people that I work with every day, the employees,
 frontline employees, our mid-level managers, my fellow department heads, your city staff. They help our community become great every day. And they're just an awesome bunch of people, every single one of them. And supporting their efforts has been a marvelous opportunity. This is like leaving a family behind.
 And I am only comforted that my new role will give me the opportunity to attempt to continue to advance the interests of the City of Rockford and municipalities statewide. But I really appreciate, thank you so much, Alderman Hervey, for giving me the opportunity to express my thanks to you, the City Council, Mayor Morrissey, my fearless leader and counterpart, Jim Ryan, and...
 and the rest of our department head staff who do their best every day to make you proud. And I'd like to mention that the citizens of the city of Rockford are tremendously well served by the employees of the city, and I hope they're proud of them because I am as well. So thank you all very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. The invocation will be...
 By Chaplain Kenneth Henley of the Free Will Baptist Church. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we ask that you would come and make your presence known here in this chamber tonight.
 We pray, Lord, that you'd be with this gentleman that's leaving his position here in Rockford. But, Lord, we pray that you'd give him safe traveling mercies to where he's going. And, Lord, we pray that you'd be with the councils and make decisions for the city that would be in the best interest for the city. We thank you for our police department, our fire department. And, Lord, we just pray that you would guide them and direct them and keep them safe as they protect our city.
 Be with the meeting as I go through the conclusion, for we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. And a roll call, please. Here. Here. Here.
 Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. And the acceptance of the journal. Okay, so what I'd like to do now is Colin asked, pardon me. We have a roll call on the vote. Oh, can we have a roll call on the acceptance of a voice vote? Okay.
 All in favor? Aye. There we go. Okay. I told you I'm going to screw this up. So, all right. What I would like to do now is call up Dan Forbes to come and speak about the bond sale that happened today and the outcome of it. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. I'll be very brief, but I bring good news.
 We had a wonderful bond sale, actually two series of bonds were sold by the city today. The 2016 A's and 2016 B's, they were divided into two series. The A's are the sales tax supported bonds and the B's are the water alternate revenue bonds.
 The A's, I hopefully did receive a letter from Sphere Financial. In summary, the A's received six bids, excuse me, six bidding syndicates with 28 bids. The two lowest bids were so close they were within 7, 10 thousandths of a percent. So it shows it was extremely competitive.
 The new, excuse me, the 16 A's were for new money purposes and also for refunding. The smaller portion that was for refunding on just the A's was just under $300,000 for savings over time. You pv that back into today's dollars, probably about $252,000. And that is all after cost of issuance. Once you've paid all the costs, these are all the savings that are left over.
 The Bs were only for refunding purposes. Again, we got four bidding syndicates, but the bottom three bids were within 21 ten-thousandths of a percent, so they were arguably even more competitive.
 For the savings amount, those water bonds ended up saving about $734,000 for the city, $612,000 on a present value basis. So if you look at the savings over the life of the two issues, just on the refundings, you're over $1,000,000, $1,034,000. So that's nothing to sneeze at, obviously, as far as dollars and savings to residents.
 One other thing I would mention though is this was very dependent upon Moody's rating being retained by the city. The city retained its very good rating of A1. I think a lot of credit goes to Carrie because she did a wonderful job with Moody's, with analysts on the phone when they asked very difficult questions. I also think Carrie deserves a lot of credit for having worked with us to achieve these excellent results.
 With that, I'm more than happy to answer any questions. The bond sale went very well today. The market, as you know, has been kind of up and down a little bit, but for whatever reason you picked a good day and people were very much sought after your paper from the Midwest all the way out to the East Coast where they actually won the. So thank you very much. Any questions? I'm here. Sure. Hi, Jerry.
 If the bond rating is either upgraded, downgraded through the life of the bond, does it stand the way it sets today? Yeah, it's locked in. Locked in. It's absolutely locked in. I should mention, though, on the longer bonds, which are the A bonds, you have the ability to call those bonds solely at your option in eight years. So the rates are set right now. But if the market goes down, you have the ability to refund them out again. Thank you, sir. Sure.
 Are you going to break it into A and B? Yes, for both series. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. And thank you. So now we have four speakers. They can use either of the microphones in the back. Please keep it down to three minutes, and we'll start with Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening, gentlemen.
 In the book of Luke, the second chapter starting at the eighth verse, it says, There were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were terrified, but the angel said to them, Fear not, because I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. I'm here to bring good news to all the people in Rockford tonight.
 What I want to speak about tonight, how to balance Rockford budget by using your own resources. I'm going to name 12 resources you have. Your first resource are your people. You are known as the inventors of the Midwest. 90% of people in Rockford are mechanical inclined. Only thing you have to do is market your skilled workforce. Your second resource, you specialize in manufacturing. I call it the
 it the king of all industry. It got us out of the Great Depression. Your third resource is the tourist industry. I call it the queen of all industry. The tourist industry brought in, Eleanor, $37 billion, $576 million, $325,000, $415,000 in NASS in 2015. Your fourth resource is the Rockford Airport. Your fifth resource is Rockford Mass Transit.
 If you let the bus run 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, fix and flex route, you could bring in $29,575,125.80 a year. Your sixth resource is the UPS Hub. Your seventh resource is the BMO Center. Your eighth resource is Memorial Hall. Your ninth resource is the Berkley Center. Your tenth resource is the library. Have the library open from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Have educational programs and entertainment programs. Your eleventh resource is the Coronado Theater.
 Your 12th resource, one I came up with. Open up a big old pile of downtown so people can come downtown. This will help generate revenue for Rockford.
 If you use these 12 ideas of mine, you can bring in Rockford $3,375,450,215.88 in one year. Enough money to keep your budget balanced. Enough money to help eliminate homeless. Enough money to help reduce poverty. Enough money to help reduce unemployment. Enough money to help reduce crime. Enough money to help send everyone in Rockford that graduated from high school to college. I'm tired of hearing about people.
 I'm tired of hearing about people in China working. I'm tired of hearing about people in India working. I'm tired of hearing about people in Mexico working. I'm tired of hearing about robots working. What I want to hear about is the people in Rockford working. And if you give me 30 men or women who got just a walkie talkie out, they don't need no guns. I can reduce crime here in 90 days by the help of God. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is James Mosley. Hello. How is everyone doing today?
 I recently was voted in as the outreach senator for Rockford Student Government and I proposed a plan to them and I wanted to share the proposal that I proposed to the student government of Rock Valley and here's it is.
 What I wanted to propose was a race relations class. And I want it to be a required course credit to get your associate's or bachelor's degree at colleges in Rock Valley. And the content of the class will consist of multiple instructors, five minimum instructors with different ethnic backgrounds and genders. And the reason for multiple instructors is because when you're having a discussion about race relations, it gets messy.
 And five instructors or more would not only give crowd control, but you have different mediators for different students. Because you might have a student with a black background, ethnic background, and you might have a black teacher who's come from his background. So that student might not be able to convey what's going on.
 what they really want to say, but that teacher as the mediator can mediate for everyone else in the classroom what that student is really trying to say because he understands them because they come from similar backgrounds. And so that's what the structure of the five multiple instructors are for. Also the benefit of having this class is the instructors will talk about modern, past, and present issues and how we can cope with or overcome them as a collective human race.
 The instructors will also talk about how to interpret and understand each other despite relation, religion, or economic status. Instructors' goal will be to build a bridge of understanding between races and genders despite our differences. The biggest thing in any relationship, whether it be
 and husband and wife or brother or sister, the biggest thing in a relationship is communication. And as a society, we don't communicate with each other.
 And so I don't understand that our biggest thing as a society is communication. The biggest thing in a relationship is communication. That's the one thing we don't do. That's why we have so much misinterpretation with each other. That's why we don't understand each other. That's why we can't understand why a person acts a certain way because we have no understanding of that person. We have no understanding of their culture or their gender, and we need to understand.
 learn about each other more. And I believe that implementing this kind of class in a college setting, you already have adults, young adults, who are coming into the world with their perspective, and so they need to have a greater perspective about everyone else who's in the world. And so I believe implementing a race relations class will not only improve our society as a whole, but it will improve every other area of a person's life.
 as far as finances, as far as helping people out, as far as hiring a person. You know, when employers would be more willing to hire certain people they never would have thought to hire, only because now they have more of an understanding of that person. And so I'm not only pushing this for college, but I'm going to wrap it up, and I thank you guys, and vote Tom for mayor. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Thank you.
 Good evening, I'm Dr. Marris, our Alderman, Alderman and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs verses 17, 28 to 28 highlights several benefits of keeping quiet. It is the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure that you pause to think and listen so that when you do speak,
 you will have something important to say. On November 20th, the Rockford Register Star had a community conversation on race at Midway Village Museum in Rockford. Race in the Rock River Valley is a year-long series being done with partnership with the different radio stations. Then they stated, we are fortunate to be in the community that takes its own
 transformation very seriously and is working hard at it. Okay, what community are you talking about? When you have a meeting way on the east side of town, but on the east side of the river, you have more than 80% of the business and the job. Yes, you have people in the professional field, education, healthcare, law, and business.
 Yet the people that are fighting against racism every day was not at the table. They have these meetings, but at the end of the day, what are you doing about racism? I can tell you what I'm doing. However, you don't want to hear what I got to say.
 speech or you don't really want to hear the truth. I can tell you what can be done about these problems. We have a new chief of police talk about transparency. However, what have you seen in blocking people from hearing calls on their scanner and killing the concept meeting? The chief of police stated that it would take up too much time for the police officers to
 and that they give out the same information that Rockstead meeting. Well, I beg to differ. We was able to see the high crime area and etc. And if you take, for example, Newtown people have a very negative look at the people that live in RHA property.
 By the way, most of the crime that happened on RHA property is by outside and the number is lower than the crime that happened on the outside of housing. I hear some of the pastors and others want to blame the people that are coming from Chicago as the cause for most of the crime. Once again, I beg to differ. And we can only see that if we still have the CompStat meeting that was open to the public. You see in the public,
 that you want to work with, you say in the public that you want to work with the community, nevertheless you keep slamming the door in our face. In November they had over 75 shots, 75 killers, 319 people were shot. The number total of homicides was 80 in Chicago. The number of people that was killed in Chicago by police was 11. The number wounded by police was 14.
 We had only 24 killings so far this year, and no one has been killed by the police since the Bob Moore case back in 2009. So the public was able to see the end out of the constable's case. Mr. Brantley? No longer the case. Your time is up, sir. All right. And I just want to say that we're raising funds to take our at-risk youth to the Harlem Gold Travelers. And so you can go to GoFundMe. And also this Saturday, it's a community at Gateway Park.
 Patriot Gateway. Thank you, sir. Our next speaker is Toby Halderman. In case you haven't heard, Hillary Clinopio lost the election.
 The people have spoken. The first battle is over. The war has just begun. The evil enemy is still entrenched in Washington and in strategic locations throughout our country. They must be removed in order for our country to move forward. The Clintons must be held accountable for the treasonous acts that they have committed. There are consequences for every criminal act, and the Clintons are not off the hook.
 Justice must be served. And just for your information, donations to the corrupt Clinton Foundation have dropped by over 40%. Why, you ask? Because they no longer have the power or influence to sell to the highest bidder. The corrupt Clinton Foundation will soon collapse upon itself. Hopefully that will be the last time I speak of the Clintons this year.
 Stop the violence, end the silence. Call Crime Stoppers for your cash reward. Wouldn't it be a great public service announcement for the mayor and our new police chief, Dan O'Shea, to get on TV and say, you need any extra money for Christmas? Call in them criminals, get your cash reward tax-free. Here you go.
 Still no street lights in front of the liquor store on Broadway, car lots being robbed at gunpoint on Broadway, people being beat with pipes on Broadway, stabbings on Broadway, and still no foot patrol on Broadway. When will this insanity end? That is anyone's guess, but until you go after the criminal enterprises...
 i.e., the pop and cigarette stores that are attracting the lowest of the low to flock to Broadway, until you close them down, Broadway and the surrounding community will not stand a chance. Even when District 2 opens its doors and is fully operational, it will not be enough to bring back hope and prosperity to Broadway. You know where the problem lies. Take it out.
 There is a fire on Broadway and the city and its elected officials have been letting it burn for 30 years. Why don't you try stomping it out? I will not be silent. I will be heard. And on a final note, this has been weighing very heavily upon me and I have to get it off my chest. Prophet Yusef, nobody here likes you. We all love you. Happy birthday and many more. Okay, proclamations.
 I mean petitions and communications. Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Deb. State items that will be referred to Planning and Development. Number one, a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, Community and Economic Development Department Director, regarding the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, also known as RACVB. Their 2017 to 2022 Contract for Service Agreement.
 Also being referred is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, Community and Economic Development Department Director regarding Rockford Area Economic Development Council, also known as RADEC. Their 2017 to 2018 Contract for Service Agreement. There's a memorandum from Terrance Hall, Comprehensive Planning and Design Administrator regarding Rockford Community Partners. Their 2017 budget request and work plan.
 Another referral is a memorandum from Nora Doyle from the Legal Department regarding Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau quarterly report for fiscal year 2017, quarter one, July through September 2016. This will be referred to Planning and Development as well. A memorandum from Todd Cagnoni.
 Community and Economic Development Department Director regarding the intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Board of Education, School District Number 205, related to a request for proposals for an adaptive reuse of Walker Elementary School located at 1520 Post Avenue. And lastly, a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, Community and Economic Development Director regarding Rock River Development Partnership, also known as RDP.
 contract for service agreement. These six memorandum will be refer to planning development. We have codes and regulation committee.
 Two items tonight. One is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the authorization to allow the zoning officer to file text amendments. The second is a memorandum from Matthew Vittner, Director of Public Works, City Engineer, regarding an honorary street name change. Elm Street, which is Church Street, to Winnebago Street. Both those items will be referred to codes and regulations. Thank you. Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We've got four items. The U.S. Planning Administrator regarding the preparation and submittal of U.S. EPA grants application commitment to provide the local match for cleanup grants. Memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding the Head Start Program Governance Memo from Executive Director George Davis. Memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding application.
 for federal grant funds for annual continuation of Head Start and early Head Start services for the period of April 1, 2017 through March 31, 2018, and memorandum from Carrie Ackman, Finance Director, regarding training travel changes to rules and regulations. All four items refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. And now on to proclamations. And I have two tonight.
 I would like to have Joan Sage and anybody that is with her tonight for a proclamation regarding bullying. Whereas bullies and bullying has been awarded, has been around for a long time. Although in today's world of cyberbullying, the violence attached seems unex...
 unacceptable and must be stopped. And whereas cyberbullying has become one of the most prevalent types of bullying that occurs between teens, about 80% of all high school students have encountered bullying in some fashion online. And whereas there are numerous cases of suicide by young people who were bullied, violence committed both by bullying and the bullied,
 and unhealthy relationships with family and friends that can continue a lifetime if not detected and treated early. And whereas a million bullies plus, buddies plus, is an interactive where individuals make a pledge to be a buddy,
 The more buddies created, the less bullies tolerated, and whereas the Buddy Campaign for a Million Buddies Plus has the goal of assigning...
 up everyone in Rockford as a buddy. This will be done through both individuals and groups reciting the pledge at community centers, community events, and gathering of every kind. Now, therefore, I, Alderman Otto...
 Standing in for Mayor Larry J. Morrissey of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of December 2016 to be Don't Be a Bully, Be a Buddy Month. Hello, everybody. I'm excited. Thank you all for coming. And I am so excited, so bear with me.
 Don't be a bully, be a buddy. We started here in Rockford because we want to be known as the first city ever in America for everyone to become buddies. Put us on the map as being the city of buddily love. So this is what's going to happen. We have P.C. Labrie and Kyle Warren from the Ice Halls. They're joining up with us.
 We have all of those bukuza people. But we have Dan and Ruth and Nicholas. We have everybody. I love you guys so much. We have Albany Pastor Melvin Brown.
 Kiana, my granddaughter came all the way from Georgia. The most important thing is the violence here in Rockford, it has to be stopped. We are a family. South side, north, east, and west, no longer. We are a circle. No matter what color you are, what size, it doesn't matter. We got to spread love, peace, joy, and happiness.
 Some people think that's a joke. God is love. And when we start doing it, we'll see what happens. Let's try it. Because it's hard to shoot somebody in the face that you've been hugging and loving and communicating with and sharing with. And this is what we've got to start doing. Loving each other, sharing and caring. And our neighbor, that's our problem, okay? And your neighbor don't have to live next door.
 God bless you. Thank you. We have a buddy pledge. So everybody here, it would be wonderful if you pledged to be a buddy. You should have the card in your hand. And we're going to have Kyle and PC from the Ice Hogs to repeat the pledge. Repeat after us, and you guys will all be buddies. Thank you so much, and God bless you. All right, so repeat after me. As a buddy, I, Kyle...
 Pledge to plant seeds of love, peace, and joy. Give respect to parents, teachers, peers, and police. Never cheat or tell a lie. Hurt others or make them cry.
 I'll never carry a gun, laugh at others, and make fun. These things I pledge to do, I'll be a buddy to each of you.
 And I just want to add a couple words here. It's an honor to be here. From Cal and I, I think this is pretty official. We've never been in that type of circumstance. And to be honest, I feel like to be in the penalty box. Kind of nervous a little bit, but...
 We got on board with Flora. We got to meet her after practice. And we have the same goal as her. It's just to make this city all buddies instead of bully. And Cal and I are going to go and try to spread the words in a couple of the schools like we did last year. Because we got some really good feedback from the kids. And we really care about the city. So thank you for having us. Thank you.
 Thank you. For the next proclamation, I would like to call up Assistant Deputy Chief Pat Hoy. Hello.
 Whereas motor vehicle crashes killed 998 people in Illinois during 2015, and hundreds of those deaths involved a driver impaired by alcohol and or drugs.
 And whereas the December holiday season is traditionally one of the most deadly times of the year for impaired driving, and whereas for thousands of families across the state and the nation, holidays are a time to remember loved ones lost, and whereas organizations are joined together with the Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over and other campaigns that foster public awareness
 of the dangers of impaired driving and anti-impaired driving law enforcement efforts. And, whereas, the City of Rockford is proud to partner with the Illinois Department of Transportation's Division of Traffic Safety and other traffic safety groups in the effort to make our roads and streets safer.
 Now, therefore, I, Alderman Odo, standing in for Mayor Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of December 2016 to be Drunk and Drug Driving Prevention Month.
 Thank you. Obviously, this has been a high priority for our agency for decades. We have four full-time traffic investigators that work from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. with their sole function is to locate and arrest drunken drug drivers. As well as the proclamation says that we've been working already on a couple details with using IDOC grant money, partnering with the state police.
 and other local area law enforcement officers to get intoxicated motorists off our roadway. So we want everybody to have a safe and happy holiday and remember to use a designated driver if you've been drinking. Thank you. Okay, new committee reports. All in favor to suspend the rules. Oh, planning and development, I'm sorry. Alderman Jim Cherokee.
 Thank you. We have four reports. Under Roman numeral IV-A, Chairman will hold out number four. So up for suspension of rules is committee report number one. Committee recommends approval of the termination of ordinance for Eastside TIF, a tax increment fund. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Under 5A.2, the committee recommends approval of the termination ordinance for the Westside TIF. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. From a numeral 5A.3, committee recommends approval of an ordinance terminating the 7th Street TIF. First, I'd like to request a suspension of rules. All in favor? Aye. Thank you. Then I'd like to place those three items up for passage.
 Any discussion? Alderman Hervey. I had several people call me about the TIFs, and I would just ask if either the chairman or Mr. Hayes could just recite the fact that, you know, all three were solvent, that they are terminating just some of the basic facts around it, because I don't think people know. Thank you, Madam Chair. Alderman Hervey, the...
 The city held a joint review board meeting and covered the fact that all three of these TIFs have ceased due to their expiration under Illinois law. All the increment related to those three TIFs has been collected and dispersed.
 I don't believe that there are any debt issues open on these three TIFs, and none of them ended in a deficit. There might be a modest amount of increment left in one of these TIFs. The finance director would know particularly, but I think that we had –
 allocated all amounts in those TIFs to specific projects within those TIFs at the completion of those TIFs. So Ms. Eklund may have some additional if the chair chooses to recognize her. Thank you. The
 that has been issued out of these TIF funds, committed for payment by these TIF funds, has been retired. There were small balances left at the end of fiscal year 2015. Those will all be spent by the end of fiscal year 2016. Thank you.
 Okay, do we do a roll call? On a committee report, Your Honor, committee reports may pass by a voice vote. The ordinances will require a roll call later in the evening. Okay, so all in favor? Codes and Regulations Committee. Thank you.
 An amendment for item, Roman numeral 5B2 that I'd like to present to the floor and I'm going to read that now. I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports.
 Roman numeral 5B, item 2, to reflect the approval of the variation to increase the maximum allowable height for business identification landmark style freestanding sign along South Perryville Road from 8 feet to 12 feet in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6998 Redonza Drive.
 the approval of the variation to increase the maximum allowable square footage for a business identification landmark landmark style freestanding sign is stricken due to the applicant's withdrawal of the request. I move to place that amendment up for passage. Second. Any discussion? Alderman Hervey? One piece of discussion. I know I put this on the record very often when we have a variation for sign requests and that is
 I believe we are really digging ourselves into a hole by approving all of these variations for these signs. We established a new ordinance or zoning ordinance or whatever the parameter is for signs and it seems that every
 organization that has a public relations firm or a law firm or is large enough to lobby, to change, asks for a variation in their sign. And I think it's going to lead to, I don't think, it leads to a lot of cynicism. I think small business people who feel put upon by the sign ordinance because they have to make the changes,
 are losing respect for the city and sometimes for us as a council because they feel like unless you're a big guy, you have to follow the rules and no one else does. I would like to see us as a council revisit the signed ordinance. If we're going to let everybody do 64 feet and 8 feet to 16 feet, then make it 16 feet and I guarantee it's going to go to 24.
 that people are going to be asking for. But let's come up with a signed ordinance that gives us the look and feel for the community that we want and stick to it. But the variances, I believe, are wrong because of the way that we implement them. And that's not a criticism of people. It's just a criticism of the process that we go through with these things. Thank you. Alderman Gitchis? Yes.
 I just want to echo my agreement with Alderman Hervey. In my ward, we had Crusader Clinic, which is being built that requested a variation of the signs. I didn't support that. I think that if we consistently vote to say, hey, look, you have to stay within our ordinance, eventually all the signs in the city are going to comply with our ordinance. We're going to like the way it looks. We spent a lot of time talking about sign pollution, how that looks. I think this is one we're just...
 If you're coming in asking for a different sign, the answer's no. So I'll be a no on item B2 as well. Alderman Neuberg. Thank you.
 I understand us having a certain regulation or ordinance, but there are always exceptions to the rule. I understand, I do feel that we have been very stringent on when we have voted in from codes and regs, when we have sent ordinance variation, but there are instances when it's
 Apropos to do something other than what the ordinance saw, I have a business that's on North Rockton Avenue. That was a gentleman that's owned the business for 11, 12 years. He has someone running that business for him. That person left. When the owner, who's been the owner for 11 years, decides he's going to open the place, the city of Rockford said he's got to put up a new sign.
 Now, right there, that is a perfect instance of an exception to the rule. And as long as I think we are stringent on when we do the exceptions, I think we're doing a fine job. Thank you. CHAIRMAN DICKINSON. Alderman Chiarelli. MR. Yes, Your Honor. I'd just like to maybe have one of our staff members explain the reason for the amendment.
 codes committee approved the variation from eight feet to 12 feet that also reduce the square footage of the sign so they don't need the variance on the square footage amount so automatically when the sign went down several feet then the square footage also goes down and it's meets code.
 meets our ordinance at 61 feet, or 61 square feet. Because according to my understanding, if I'm incorrect, if the staff could correct me on that, but that's the reason for the amendment this evening. Mr. Hayes? Should I ask Mr. Williams? Mr. Williams? That is my understanding. That's the reason. That's the reason the applicant withdrew the variation on the square footage of the sign. And that's why we need the amendment on the floor, because it meets code. Thank you.
 Alderman Goetzis? I'd just like to point out, because I asked Scott Capoville the same question, meets code based on square footage doesn't meet code on height, right? They still need variation from age 12 feet. That's correct. Originally the application was for 16 feet and they compromised to ask the request of the codes regulations committee on this council to go down to 12 feet. There is a barrier in front of this property of a . . .
 trees and shrubs that I believe I was told that has to stay in place there because AV ever a Restriction on that property that those trees and shrubs cannot be removed. So that's been causing a little bit of a hardship for this Clinic when it was being built so that's for the request of the height increase Alderman McNeely I
 Did not, did the applicant not know that the restriction for the trees were in place when they decided to buy the property and decided to build there?
 Alderman Strale. Yes, I was told that the applicant did not know that there was a deed restriction on that property and that they could request to the owner of that property to trim some of those trees back, but it was found out by staff here that there is a deed restriction on that property which they cannot, or a covenant let's say, a covenant on that property that those trees have to stay as is on that property to the north.
 So that is one of the issues going on with why they want to increase the height of the sign. I think I would, Madam Chair, I would like to withdraw my second to the motion. I thought that we were reducing the width for the sign in accordance with our new ordinance. That is not the case, so I withdraw my second. Thank you. Mr. Haynes.
 Are we doing this separate from all of the rest or are we going to wait to do it all in one? I'm amending item number two before I suspend the rules on all of the others. Okay. Seconded a motion having been withdrawn, so there's not a second present. Who seconded? Tina?
 So that motion to amend the committee report is what's at issue right now, not the main issue of whether the variance of any type would be allowed. So it's a vote then, correct? The vote would be on the motion to amend to reduce the height from 16 to 12 feet. All in favor? And to withdraw. Oh, sorry.
 the amendment on the square footage variance because that's no longer required. All in favor? Or do we need a voice vote? Voice vote is sufficient. Or a roll call? A voice vote is sufficient on a committee report unless one of the members asks for a roll call vote. Okay, all in favor? Those not? No. Roll call. Thank you. Jerky. Sketches. No. McNamara. Aye. Ross. Aye. Herbie. No. Aye.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 As a group, yes. This committee report has not been approved. It's merely been amended. So you can ask that to be approved with all the others if you choose. So I can do it with all the others? Yes, Alderman. All right, thank you. So at this time, I move to suspend the rules on 5B1 through 17. All in favor? Aye. Aye.
 No, I'm two. We're just suspension of the rules. I'm sorry. So at this time, I place items 1 through 17, especially item 2 as amended, up for passage, Your Honor. It's a voice vote, or is it a voice vote? All in favor? A roll? No, it's a voice. For council, it is the ultimate request of the law.
 Okay. Roll call, please. 30. Number 3, 2, no on B2 and 14. Yes. No on 14. Cross. Number 10. Number 2 and 9, no on 1, 2, and... Thompson-Kelley. No on B2 and 14. Can you repeat that? No on B2 and what? 14. Aye. No on... Number 3, 3, and 14. Sorry to interrupt.
 I wanted to I remaining here. I seven eyes for 10 I remember four five six seven eight eleven twelve Matters on pass alderman dirty Alderman Harvey
 Just a question for our legal director. The note on item number two indicates that it requires a two-thirds vote of all aldermen or ten votes. Is that just the ordinance, or is that the committee report also? That's on the ordinance. On the ordinance? Yes. Can you finance that personnel? No. Thank you, Madam. Five minutes. Probably one minute is the rule. If not, there's not three minutes. Three minutes is the time.
 2016. Item 2, committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request, reduce fine for 3-324 Montrose Avenue for $2,250 at the request of the owner. Any outstanding water cleanup and mow liens must be paid. Committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request, reduce fine for 7340 East State Street to $2,000 as the property is not in compliance. The property is to be brought into compliance as work is completed on a new adjacent building. Fine shall not exceed $2,250.
 Reduced to, fine shall not be reduced until work is completed and verified in compliance. Any outstanding water cleanup and mow leans must be paid. Committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request, reduced fine for 3120 Merida Lane, $500.
 As the property is in compliance, any outstanding water cleanup and mow liens must be paid. Committee recommends approval of the sale of property at 804 Haskell Avenue to the sole bidder, Melvin C. Cruz of Byron, Illinois, for his bid of $480. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And I place these items over passage. Separate them. Correction, Your Honor. I move to suspend rules on items Charlie 1 through 5. All in favor? All in favor of suspending rules? All in favor? Aye. Aye.
 Yes. So now your honor, items Charlie 1 through 5 are up for passage, and Alderman McNeely has put in a request to separate item Charlie 5. Okay, any discussion? Alderman Newberg? Thank you. On number 2, reducing the fine for 3324 Montrose at the request of the owner, are the fines taken care of, or are the complaints? Yes.
 It doesn't say anything about that. Are they in compliance? Mr. Williams? I'll answer that one. Mr. Hayes, do we know what's happening with that? I can now pull up the report if I can have a moment. I'd like that laid over then. Any other discussion? Alderman Harvey? This is one. It looks like it's going back to HUD. The bank owned it.
 and now they're going to, it was a foreclosure, and now they're going to convey it back to HUD. But it does look like the bank was taking care of the mowing. But it doesn't look like what they were applying for has been taken care of. And that is my question. Why are they using it if it's not in compliance? Ms. Eklund? The staff memo on this item does state that the violations have been corrected. Mm-hmm.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley. I'm with the five. Was the property brought into compliance, and was this the original owner? Does anybody have any knowledge of that property? The sale of property? Yeah, located 804. This is a city-owned property. It's at the corner of Haskell and...
 The owner of the adjacent property owns a rental property there. There is no parking option for that property. Acquisition of this lot, we believe, will be improved to provide a parking option for that residential rental real estate. Staff is supportive of the sale. It's vacant. There's no property standards issue on that lot. Any other questions? Yes.
 Okay. All in favor? Just a point of order, Your Honor. So ultimately, we have requested to separate item Charlie 5, so I recommend we take a voice vote on items Charlie 1, 2, 3, and 4. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Not? Anybody? I did ask a question regarding item number 5 already. Thank you. So now we're including 5. It's not being left out? No.
 So if we could just, Madam Chair, if I could suggest just taking a separate vote. It would appear to me that the vote, the committee reports, C1 through 4 all passed with a unanimous voice vote of the council. If we could have a separate voice vote on C5. Alderman McNamara had his hand up, though.
 Alderman. Your Honor, could I just have my vote clarified for items 1 through 4? Item 4, no. Items 1 through 3, yes. I apologize. I didn't hear any votes. Thank you. Okay, now number 5 is up for a vote. All in favor? Aye. The no? No. Matter. It passes. Officers' reports? Yes.
 Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple of items, actually. First, to Director Hayes, thank you for your tremendous service to the city. We haven't always had agreements, but I think every conversation you've been having
 you've been a really wonderful advocate for our city. And I can't thank you enough the amount of time that you put in, answering phone calls from all of us on the weekends, weeknights. So thank you for all that you do. And your new employer is incredibly lucky to have you. A couple of other questions for staff is, as we look out,
 10 next week fact committee looks like there's for rather large agreements coming and are you see PB are our DP the rock for community partners in our ADC will we be getting those agreements are they already posted is one question I in my second question is on the amrock we've received update from
 from staff regarding the Amrock. I think some things have changed recently with some state action, which seems promising, and it's very exciting news.
 My question I have, though, is as I'm out and about in the community, I keep hearing from other individuals that there could be some new financial makeup in the works, changing something from the idea of putting money into the parking deck now into the convention center. And I was wondering if we could get a staff update on the AMROC and what agreements we could be coming –
 What agreements could be coming before us as I continue to hear rumors out there of what are some of the things being thought of? I think Alderman Newberg was next and then Alderman Hervey. Then Alderman Bean. I also wanted to tell Patrick that I'm very upset he's leaving us, but I think it's a nice opportunity for you. We've worked together for many years before either one of us were with the city. I've enjoyed all those years, and I wish you and your family lots of luck.
 But remember, I still know where you live. Alderman Harvey. Oh, sorry. I wasn't done. Thank you. The other thing I want to do is pass along to Mark Stockman and to Matt Vintner that this is the first time in three and a half years we've had snow, and I didn't get a lot of calls about it.
 You hit my mailbox, you covered my driveway right after I shoveled. I was out early this morning. The city looked good. I know it was a weird, I shoveled my driveway, thank you. I know it was a weird snow sleep mix, but kudos to all of the city workers. Hopefully that'll be the rest of the year like that. One other thing is,
 I've received lots of calls since the Democrats and Republicans had to have their petitions in for filing for re-election or for running for office. And I just wanted to remind people, yes, I am running. I'm an independent, and mine don't have to be until next Monday. And, yes, I am running. So, please, folks, wish me luck and quit calling if I'm running or not. Thank you.
 Honorable Irvie. Just, yeah, first and final comment to Mr. Hayes. It did not surprise me when IML tapped him to be their executive legal counsel. I had the privilege of traveling to Springfield with Patrick once to testify, and the respect that he was shown there was evident.
 and I picked that up right away. I got the Dickens beat out of me, but... And he was very supportive. It made that trip very much worthwhile to see that Rockford did have a very strong advocate. And I just want to remind everyone that Patrick's going to be not in a position to favor us, but to help us understand what goes on in this state, if anybody can do that.
 because I think that's going to be a good asset for us as aldermen to be able to learn more about how this stuff really functions, especially some of the things like the historic preservation tax credits and some of the funding mechanisms that take place and impact Rockford, River Edge, all of those kinds of things. So, Patrick, farewell and good life. Alderman Beech was next, Alderman Frost, and then Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly.
 I have a couple of things I want to address this evening, Madam Chair. One, a couple of weeks ago, there was children killed in a school bus down in Chattanooga. And that raised questions, at least about seat belts on the buses. And I did a little research to find out there's several states that require that around the United States, California, Florida, Louisiana, New Jersey, New York, and Texas.
 And I'm just saying not that we have any access or control over the school board. It's still part of our family. And I just wanted to say maybe we should look at that on our school buses in terms of the lives of our children. I've done a little further research about the life of buses, the miles, and the potential costs that it might be. And it seems throughout these states that I've looked at, it comes down to about $0.10 a day per seat is about what it costs.
 And so I'm just saying, do you think that's a fair warning for us to maybe consider that in Rockford for the school buses that transport thousands of our kids around day in and day out? That's just a thought I'd like to leave. If you want to join that thought, I don't know how we would do it except the fact that we're doing it publicly, whether we want to put a resolution together, perhaps as a council, send it to the school board chair and say, consider this.
 So that's one item that I wanted to bring before you this evening. The second thing has to do with beauty. We've all talked about Stroll on State and how nice it looks, and it really does, no question. But you can't hide the beauty coming down North 2nd Street from Auburn into town at the Nicholas Conservatory. It's just absolutely gorgeous in vivid colors. And the reason why I'm saying this is I'm not sure that we really realize the number of hours
 it must take to wrap these trees and put the colors to them. And so I'm just saying this to say thank you to those who do that each year, that it's not gone unnoticed. Because somebody may not have called you on the phone and said thank you, I'm saying thank you now for all of us to them for what a beautiful thing you bring to this region for this holiday season. Thank you, ma'am. Well, I think Alderman Frost is next.
 then Alderman Thompson Kelly, and then Alderman McNeely. I wanted to wish him well. I've known Patrick for probably nearly 20 years, both as a contemporary and an adversary in the courtroom. And for the last 12 years, you know, he made a pretty big career change leaving his private practice to come take a leap of faith with Mayor Morrisey and be the general counsel for the city of Rockford.
 It was a very difficult task. Patrick put in a lot of long hours and really always, I think, did what was best for him. Patrick Scott was what was best for the citizens of Rockford.
 And I know him and I have gone our rounds over the years, but it's always been really coming down to that question, what we think is really of value for the citizens of Rockford. And Patrick never lost that in his role as general counsel, and I've always commended him for that. We are losing...
 a great, not just great friend and ally, but we're losing a great lawyer for the city that really in terms of legalese has done yeoman's amount of work and carried a grunt for the city that we are going to lose. Unfortunately someone else, in this case the IML, is going
 is going to gain. But Patrick, I wanted to just personally wish you well at your new position and we will know how to get ahold of you when we need to and expect plenty of calls. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. I also want to thank Pat for the services he's given and over the years, I do appreciate your hard work and working with so many different attitudes and words and dispositions. I want to thank you for the services that you've done.
 But I also want to thank the Auburn Street businesses for the decorations on Auburn Street. We did a tree lighting ceremony last week in the rain. And the Auburn Street businesses are expanding their decorations to any business that want to be included on Auburn Street. I also had the privilege of being at St. Luke's.
 I'm the burning on work for me on this weekend along with all the nearly it was a joyful evening. Pastor Malone has been in this community for years and years and years and years and I want to let him know how much I do appreciate it.
 about the community, we very, and Cyril and him, did a lot of the positive things. Any time you take in 18 years and burn a $1.5 million mortgage bill, you're doing darn good in the community. So I want to thank Pastor Malone and his congregation for the services they provide in this community. And I did bring the mayor and he's been back, so I hope that staff will make sure that he gets it. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you.
 Madam Mayor Quintanilla. I join with the rest to which Attorney Hayes and the State Pitching Program will take with you. Whenever we're in Springfield, at least I speak for myself, I hope to stop by and say hello to you. We'll miss you. Starting off with you, not being certain of Department has as we sit here and vote, and we hope for the very best for the city. We
 I can now say after working with you for a number of years, you were an asset to the city. Well, I gave you more. I also would like to join Alderman Thompson-Kelley in thanking the individuals from St. Luke's
 Missionary Church for inviting me to their event yesterday, which was the burning of their mortgage. So I know they're all very pleased. I know Pastor Merlon was just grinning from ear to ear. So I know he's pleased.
 And now that night they took up a collection to start another building. So I wish them the very best. They are an asset to our community and certainly an asset to the African American community in this city. Thirdly, I would like to thank the Public Works Department as well as the Human Service Department.
 public works for the number of sidewalks that were done this year. I was very pleased to see them. Some of them I didn't understand why one square was done and then no squares were done. But for the most part, I think that the job you've done with the sidewalks have been a benefit certainly within my area and other parts of the city that I've seen as well.
 There was one that I had requested for a few years, and you didn't get to it last minute, right before the snowfall, but it got done this year. I'm very pleased about that, as well as the trees. We've had a number of trees that needed to be removed. Again, when my constituents called me and I called Public Works, you guys were jotting on the spot for the most part, and I certainly appreciate that. And I want to thank
 Owen Carter, this week, last week, I had contacted him. One of my constituents, as well as neighbors, her furnace went out. She's 81, 82 years old and home alone.
 and she had been calling a number of other places trying to find assistance, and when she contacted me, I contacted Owen right away, and he got on it right away. And she had to go to Human Service Office to fill out some paperwork. She called me and told me that they were more than receptive to her. They were very accommodating, providing her with
 space heaters to tide her over until today or tomorrow. Hopefully they'll get to it. Mr. Carter let me know that there were several homes, several individuals in which they were found in the same situation and they were
 These are things that after talking with him and going through with my neighbor, with her situation and calling and checking on her to make sure she was still okay, I think we overlooked. And so I am so pleased and I'm so proud that we have a department that's addressing people's needs, but they're not just addressing their needs, Mr. Davis, but they're
 being kind and understanding and considerate to the people. So I thank you for leading up that department. I certainly thank again Mr. Oren and all the individuals working in weatherization that's helping the people. Thank you. Alderman Durkee. I also wanted to echo my best wishes to Patrick Case. There was a night in November in 2010
 where I was a poll watcher for Bill Brady. I worked his campaign in Winnebago. And there was a couple other guys there. I sat and engaged them in a conversation and talked about the city and its development in downtown and sort of a city that didn't have a sense of itself. And this guy turned to me and said, you got to run for alderman. That was Patrick Case.
 I'm not sure the library board likes you much now. But I've always retreated to his wisdom and knowledge of the law and his care for the city. I've never taken it, but there's a lawyer oath. I said this before a few weeks ago.
 to zealously represent your client. I think Patrick has done that with a great deal of honor and integrity. And it's not often that you can use the word honorable. I always found Patrick to be honorable. And he will be missed, sorely missed, hard to replace with those characteristics. So I wish you the best, my friend, and come back around.
 i would also like to thank public works the snow event went marvelously i too didn't get a phone call so thank you matt and all the guys that plowed um i would like to say congratulations to patrick um although i think when i first got sworn in four years ago his hair i could swear was not
 that color. I think I've given him a few more gray hairs over four years. But one thing I've got to say, even though I've given him those gray hairs and I've argued with him, he's had my back. And then I'm going to miss. So I wish you and your family the best. And when you feel like it's getting too much,
 Just remember all of us. You'll be very thankful of where you are. So, but congratulations, and you will be missed. Alderman Chiarelli.
 14th Ward. I'll say a few words at the end. Mr. Hayes, you've been an outstanding attorney and a friend. I appreciate everything you've done for myself and for the ward. And, you know, everybody here tonight has said their goodbyes. And in Italian, we say, arrivederci, which means until we see each other again. Have a good rest of your career. Hope it brings you wealth and happiness and good health. Thank you.
 All right. Anybody else? It looks like we did it all. Oh, Mr. Ryan, you've got something to say. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. You know, as somebody that was brought in at least a point at the same year as Patrick, back in 2005, and someone who works with him on a daily basis, when I reflect back at
 at the time, you know, it's pretty amazing, really, to see, you know, the growth of him personally, but as us, as a city. You know, I can tell you that we've been through four presidential disaster declarations. We've gone through the worst economic recession since the Great Depression. We've had some police-community race-relation issues. But yet, at the same time,
 We have really moved this city forward in a number of ways. We've rebuilt the city in terms of having a far more aggressive capital program than we have in the last 40 years.
 We have a downtown renaissance that hasn't been seen since the 1950s. So I think collectively it's very rewarding to see the fruits of your labor and I think Patrick would probably share that as well because when you're dealing with the bad stuff and as General Counsel sometimes I would cringe when he would come to my door because I knew it was not going to be good.
 But the one thing that I will say about Patrick, and if Mayor Morrissey was here, I believe he would say this, is there was nobody that modeled the values of accountability and customer service and being innovative and open and being a team player and never giving up like Pat Hayes. And he is not necessarily leaving us all together. As you know, we're going to be looking forward to working with him.
 But on behalf of city staff and Mayor Morrissey and me personally, it's a big blow to see you go. But thank you so much for not just being an employee and having a job, but serving as a supreme servant leader and making this a vocation. So I'm honored to have worked with you. Thank you. Okay.
 On the unfinished businesses, ordinances laid over. Alderman Goetsches. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 7, items Charlie 1, 2, and 3. Before I read in the first two items, the dollar amounts I'm going to be reading in on the bonds are going to be different than what you see on your iPads. The difference was administrative error that was made when the first calculation was done, so it's been corrected and reflects the bonds are actually out there.
 So, Charlie 1, an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issuance of approximately $20,820,000 general obligation bonds, sales tax, alternate revenue source, series 2016A of the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, Illinois, for the purpose of
 of refunding certain previously issued and outstanding general obligation bonds of the City payable from revenue sources, financing the construction and rehabilitation of police stations and repairing the concourse parking deck in the City, prescribing the details of said bonds, providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same, and for the collection, segregation, and application of certain sales tax receipts to pay said bonds, and further providing for the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance and authorizing
 the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof. And Charlie 2, an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of approximately $10,735,000 general obligation revenue bonds, waterworks system alternate revenue source, series 2016B of the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, Illinois, for the purpose of refunding certain previously issued general obligation bonds
 of said city payable from such revenue source prescribing the details of said bonds and providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same and for the collection, segregation and application of the water work system revenues to pay said bonds and further providing the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with such issuance and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof. And finally, item Charlie 3, an ordinance approving the Rockford Public Library AFC-CME collective bargaining agreement.
 And, Your Honor, I place these items up for passage. Any discussion? Alderman Gitchis. Yes, thank you, Your Honor, for Item C-3, the pledge of bargaining or agreement with the library union. I just did want to speak out. I strongly encourage that we approve this here tonight. I know over the last couple weeks there's been some very good high-level discussion about what we're doing with the library. But in any union contract, right, there's –
 Paying benefits, but then there's also union quality work.
 Seven years that I've lived in the city of Rockford, I've actually, you know, we use the library as a family all the time. When my wife's mom was living with us, we'd go and get her books. Now that I've got kids that are having stories read to them, that are having, you know, trying to read a thousand books before kindergarten. And every time I'm in the library, the people I'm dealing with consistently provide friendly service. The branch that we go to, you know, the people know our names. They ask how my son is doing on his books. They appreciate the fact that he's shy and...
 you know, takes like five or six trips before he'll actually talk to you. All that. I think that, you know, in this agreement, we truly have been getting union quality work. And this is an area where I probably use this city service more than any of the others, other than obvious, you know, water and streets.
 So I really recommend let's go ahead, let's get this passed. We have a whole bunch of people out there that want to have a contract going into the holidays. I really appreciate all the discussions and really great points. I think that there's some avenues we can have to take a look at that going forward. But tonight I think the right thing to do is vote yes on the contract. Alderman Beach. I just have a question. Of what raised the amount of the bonds, was it just an error in number one from $15,350 to $20,820? Yes.
 Alderman, that was my mistake. The number that's listed in the agenda is the new money, the money for the fire state, or excuse me, for the police district facilities and the parking change order. I omitted the refunding bond total. So the difference there is only the refunding. All right. Thank you. Yes. Thank you.
 So just so the council is aware, when originally read in, these bonds were read in at amounts actually higher than what are reflected today for passage. So it's not uncommon for us to have a couple of adjustments on the bonds. And so they've been properly agended. And in the BINA hearing which occurred months ago for this, which is a Bond Issuance Notification Act,
 We notified the appropriate amounts of new borrowing that we're doing. The refunding amounts have been what has been the changing complexion of these issues, and those don't require those hearings. So I just mention that to assure the council that things have been properly agendized and noticed, even though the amount is fluctuating on today's agenda. Thank you. Alderman Kirby.
 With regard to the bonds and the police stations that we're building and the concourse deck repairs and all of those things,
 One of the things that happened with the Sports Center, and don't get me wrong, staff did a tremendous job with that, but I remember there was a security system or something that some of the other users pushed for. And because we had the money, we said yes and we put it in, and it was super expensive. And some of us got a little upset about that. I want to make sure that with these bond amounts that
 staff and everybody else understands that it's not a blank check. As we go to build these stations and if any of this is going for either the concourse deck or any of our other repairs or the hotel or anything else, just because the money is there doesn't mean that we should spend it.
 So, I just wanted to put that on record because I remember that that came up with the UW Sports Center and I would hate to see that happen again when we have a lot of bond money sitting there and we start to add on to projects without coming back to City Council. Thank you. Carrie? I just want to note that because we are so far along in construction with the district facilities.
 Those totals are very, they're extremely precise and based on awards that city council has made primarily. There are some outstanding equipment purchases that we're moving through. The video conferencing system is one that we mentioned that council voted on recently. But there's no...
 unaccounted for money in that total for the district stations. It's all programmed for specific purchases that have either already been approved or will be within the next several weeks by city council. Mr. Ryan.
 Alderman Hervey, I share your concern, and if you were to ask Police Chief O'Shea whether he feels like he has a blank check on this, I think he'd probably give you a rather lengthy answer about it. But we have a budget that we're trying to stay on, obviously, because of cash flows, so we're going to remain vigilant on that. Thanks for pointing that out. Alderman Hervey. And I just want to clarify.
 I'm more concerned to keep our eye on it than anything else I know chief O'Shea is frugal with his purchases and I know he is looking to make improvements it's again just one of those concerns that sometimes it can happen so. Could call the roll please. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right.
 and each other the feeling now I want to I matters pass up motions and resolutions codes and rags any discussion came and clerk please call all I I I
 Finance and Personnel.
 Roman numeral VIII, items Charlie I, II, III, and IV. Charlie I, award of contract for consulting services, Madison Street Corridor Design and Development Action Plan, Y Boulevard to Morgan Street to Foreign Associates LLC of Chicago, Illinois, for an amount not to exceed $52,397. Funding sources, sales tax, engineering agreement, 5th and 8th Street bridge removals and wall repair to Willett Hoffman and Associates of Rockford, Illinois, for a contract not to exceed $120,900. The funding sources, CIP General Fund.
 Engineering Agreement by Annual Bridge Inspection Program 2017-2018 to H.R. Green, Inc. of McHenry, Illinois for a contract amount not to exceed $159,167.74. Funding Sources Sales Tax, Change Order Video Conferencing System and Sentinel Technologies of Downer Grove, Illinois for an additional $97,500 for two rooms per district
 The original contract amount was $456,482.50. In support of police district operations, the police department has a need to deploy a video conference system for conference rooms and individuals. The funding sources bond proceeds. Your Honor, I place these items up for passage. Separate one. Any discussion? Separate four. We're a little bit too busy. Okay.
 We're going to take a roll call, correct, with this and leaving out one and four. We're voting on two and three. Aye. No one. Three yes. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 I'm going to keep just one we're going to take and then four, correct? Okay. Any discussion on number one? Alderman Thompson-Keldy?
 When this was discussed in committee, one of the concerns was how did this project and who recommended this, I guess my question is, is who recommended this and how did this get above our CIP plan? And where is it and how is it and who does it as far as putting in streets,
 and for our main thrills that gets in the CIP plan. I thought that's a process that we start planning when we start discussing our CIP. How did this get above the process that we've been operating on? Mr. Vintner. That's what I want to know. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. When ideas come forward from various organizations,
 representatives across the city and elected officials and stakeholder groups, we have a category that's called project development. There's $300,000 in it. We move these things forward for consideration with no priority to build anything any sooner than we would for any other corridor without the discussion of city council. But we do like to start the planning process on many different levels for many different corridors
 on parallel tracks and as things unfold the complexities of these corridor developments become known and we can begin to prioritize over time logically where they might fall in a long range plan. It's just merely planning and so others have come forward within the Madison corridor to spend significant amounts of money and they've asked that we look at how
 downtown would shape and land use would be evaluated for parking, for extending medicine, for utilities, for bikes, pedestrians, to complement these significant private
 and other stakeholder investments. And that's all we're really trying to do is look at it from that perspective. So in other words, what you're saying is if a citizen or an organization comes forward, if they're downtown, they get a priority other than
 than downtown because that's exactly what you're saying to me because other projects has come before this and it hasn't been planned. It hasn't been moved forward. Is there a certain individual that is moving this forward ahead of other projects that needs to take place at the CIP? Mr. Vanden Heuvel. Mr. Ryan. The Madison Street corridor has been part of our comprehensive plan.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley. And in addition to that, whenever we're looking at a corridor project, many times things will move up based upon the activity, the economic activity that's occurring in that area.
 I understand that. On Madison Street, we have a number of land use changes. You may recall in the comprehensive plan, we had a comprehensive rezone that was recommended for that area that has not been completed. It was a part of the planning that we did to connect it to the Morgan Street Bridge. That certainly has land use impacts.
 outside of downtown, not just for land use, but for traffic flow. The Park District is planning potential major investments at the Riverview Ice House. We have parking issues right now along the corridor, and we have a number of utilities that we have to look at
 varying due to the lack of pedestrian access that we have currently on the corridor. So not to mention the fact that we have train tracks running through the middle of the street that is a significant disrepair. So in any planning process, we think it's valuable to do ahead of time
 because when we can capitalize on that economic activity, we can look at leveraging grants and any other opportunities that we have out there. I also thank you for that, and I agree with everything you said, but we've got residents that have complained about safety and other issues, and they've been put on the back burner because they're residents of the community and they're not organizations downtown. I think this is a bunch of crap,
 When we start asking the taxpayers for the 1% sales tax and we promise that we'd fix the streets and bridges, then we should fix the streets and bridges as this council see fit, instead of moving things forward just because a certain individual wants it done. Thank you. Alderman Hervey was next, and then Alderman Getchis. Yeah, my comment is...
 I've said for ages, so goes downtown, so goes West Rockford, and I still believe that from the standpoint of catalyst. But I also know that the west side of Rockford, residential and commercial, is in dire need of planning and support. I was very pleased when the state of Illinois funded the South Main Corridor Study, and we were able to bring in the Lakota group. I thought that was great.
 What we need now is infill in many areas of the west side of Rockford. We're doing significant demolition in the Ellis Heights area. The only person, not who's come forward, but who's basically taken over the planning and the discussion about the Ellis Heights neighborhood is the Rockford Housing Authority.
 In my area, where we're working on Barbara Coleman, right on the South Main Corridor in the Morgan Street Bridge, it's purpose-built communities. The first ingredient of which is low-income housing. You know, my frustration is poor, high-minority, high-crime areas are not going to be the target of a huge amount of private investment.
 I mean, I'm not naive. That's not gonna happen. At the same time, I don't want to see us as a city just give the west side of Rockford to the Rockford Housing Authority and low-income housing groups and organizations that see that as their first priority. I don't want more government subsidy on the west side of Rockford. That's why I want to see some of the planning money
 I'd like to see a big comprehensive plan. I'd love to have a group like Fire & Associates or Lakota Group to come and take a look at true urban planning and urban redesign for hot messes like we have in large swaths of southwest Rockford. It's not a jealousy. It's a statement of urgency.
 I don't want South Main to be deteriorated by the time we start putting some more investment there. I appreciate, I know Jim Ryan has done a yeoman's job, quietly, for Barbara Coleman. I want to see that, us be ready to expand that into a larger planning area.
 So I want to see us take some of that money. I don't mind putting money into downtown because it's doing good, because we have private development. But don't make that the first ingredient. That's the same thing as saying the west side of Rockford, southwest Rockford, can just dry up because we're not going to attract that kind of private development. It's a tough nut to crack.
 But I don't want to see everything have to be dependent upon government money. I think it's a horrible message to the people who live there, and especially the kids, that you wait for the government to come and save you. So I'd like to see the city help us get that planning effort started with a highly respected urban planning group. Thank you. Alderman Gitchis was next, and then Alderman Newberg after that.
 This is when I'm going to try to keep my emotions in check. I do appreciate the emotions expressed by Alderman Thompson-Kelly. The power to write up a resolution and refer it and have the city take a look at something is something we all have. Then type it up and give me something to vote on, Ann. I don't have anything to vote on.
 Okay, we had, this is not the first something like this has come along. We came along, we're doing Rock River Reclamation Districts, doing work along Spring Creek. A whole bunch of citizens came out and said, hey, we want a bike path. And a whole bunch of aldermen got together and halted that project for a few weeks, and we took a look at the bike path. Just talked to Mr. Bittner, only half his planning money has been used.
 If there's areas you want planned, I challenge you. Keep asking. Put together a resolution. You put together a resolution, they'll have to go do it. We take stuff to staff the same as everybody else does. If staff's not getting the job done, route it out here. You can write a resolution, send it to committee. I routed Justin Fern's proposal all around staff and pissed everybody off. You know something? We've got something to vote on.
 the next couple weeks. It's something I think that we can do. If there's an area, I want the west side to do well. I agree with everything Alderman Hervey just said. And if the administration is really looking down on the west side, we can change that. Because a vote with a resolution telling that man how to spend the CIP dollars is something he has to go do. And you're going to get it. Please. And I will happily vote for it. You're going to get it. I will happily vote for it. Alderman Newberg, then Alderman Frost.
 My hesitation on voting for this is that it's Madison Street corridor design. There are many businesses along Madison Street. Why can't I, you know, maybe I'm being naive, been called that before, but there are businesses in that area. And if they want to do a study, tell them to put the money up.
 Where does it say the city has to put it up for every time someone wants a study? Oh, well, you know, there's about maybe seven or eight of us that are going to benefit from this study, but let's have the city put the money up. Let's use the money that the city has for the areas that there aren't.
 A lot of businesses to bring businesses into those areas. That's my only concern There are many businesses in the Madison Street corridor. There's that a
 Business just or the organization just west or just east of the the Rock River that could put money towards it because they will benefit from it Let's see the people that are in that corridor that are going to benefit paid for it Thank you, Alderman Frost and then Alderman Matt DiMera agree with Alderman Newberg I mean, I know several people who own businesses on Madison Street Not one of them has called me
 in some sort of crisis mode about the need for this study. And I know we talk a lot about, you know, a great deal of businesses that have grown along Madison Street. I took, I drive that road every day. And I took a drive and besides the Prairie Street Brewhouse, Rockford Brewing Company, which really per se right now is not technically on Madison, it's on the river, and I think Rocktown Adventures across the street, I can't count any business that hasn't been there for probably more than 20 years.
 So I don't have a problem necessarily with us taking a look at it, but I think we need to get more active participants involved than just the city all the time. But my biggest problem is the person or the entity that we've chosen to do this. You may or may not remember that in August of 2015, I basically cross-examined Mr. Farr, who came here with his associate, to talk about Davis Park, and we got an expose on the different types of streetlights in the city of Rockford.
 And we paid a lot of money for that study, and I believe Mr. Farr is the same individual that's behind the road diet on East State Street that now we've taken, we've put up and taken down two successive years, which I don't get. And so I'm not an urban planner, but with all due respect, I don't need someone to do a charrette for us for $54,000 and to tell us what we already know. And so my question is, why can't we get some of the local, the local, the local, the local
 people involved, that we do have experts in the city of Rockford that can actually lend us a hand and give us this information. Because I don't need someone from Ann Arbor, Michigan to come to Rockford, Illinois and show me the streetlights in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in Boulder, Colorado, in Portland, Oregon, because I've been there. And we're not there. We're here and we already have streetlights up and we don't have the money. We're in a $5 million
 budget deficit. We can't redo our streetlights in the city of Rockford. Where there are certain things we can take from it and there are certain things we can't, but we don't need to talk about the ones we can't. Because we're not going to do them on this council. So my big problem and why I'm voting no to this is really because of the cost
 of $54,000 to do a study that I don't really think we need done. We should get the businesses involved, we should get the local community involved, and then come up with a plan. I've heard there's talks about expanding the ice arena down there. Well, I mean, I think the Parks District needs to be involved with this.
 maybe they are, maybe they aren't, but if we're going to talk about a problem with parking down there, then if we're going to expand the ice arena, we're going to have a bigger problem with parking. So we need to really, I think before we spend the money on it now, we need to really look at what our future plans are. Thank you. Alderman McNamara, Alderman Newberg, and then Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Chairman. A couple of things. When this came up last time, a couple of weeks ago.
 I actually laid it over, took a little bit of heat, not from anyone up here, which I appreciate, but from constituents in the ward. The reason I laid it over is to see if we could get local people to do the work. As I went through the proposal, it said that they were going to hire a traffic planner. I thought that our map could handle that.
 I thought that would be right up their alley. They also stated in the proposal that they would hire a landscape architect. I thought that we had a number of landscape architects actually who even have businesses in or around the area that they're about to plan.
 I will give staff credit that they did go to each of those entities, multiple entities I should say, and they could not do it for the cost that staff is proposing with FAR. I don't disagree with several of the aldermen's comments tonight that there are areas in our city that have either been neglected or are in far greater need.
 I don't disagree with that at all. I will say that the Park District is at the table. That's one of the driving forces from my understanding. And let me step back. One other thing I've been a little disappointed with is the process to which this has taken place. I don't think it's been a real transparent process. For example, I have not been invited to or included in any of the meetings for the Madison Street Corridor group that meets on a regular basis. With that being said,
 I need to take my own personal feelings of hey I wasn't invited to the table, this wasn't my idea. This is still an important area to our downtown and to our city. If we can connect Madison Street to Morgan Street Bridge, that's a success. That's a big deal and what we can do and what ideas we can glean from this study I think would be important. I think if you look at the Park District, if they are going to build a new sheet of ice,
 the parking is going to be a huge issue. And the parking is a critical component of this study from what I've been told by staff. I'm excited that we actually get to potentially have this sheet of ice downtown. It's a place that when I was younger, I would be dropped off there early in the morning and get picked up late in the afternoon. And I think it means a lot to folks who live on the west side of the river that we have an ice arena that's that close.
 If it doesn't go downtown, it'll go right out by the highway. I personally want to see it downtown and I think it needs to be downtown to provide more opportunities for our youth.
 Again, I don't think the process has been transparent. I don't, I'm not saying this is the greatest need, but this is a plan in front of us today. I support the study of Madison Street so that we can continue to have it grow. I think Alderman Frost stated several things that we're apt that it's not all the way there yet. It isn't, but I think it has a great opportunity to be a tremendous asset to our downtown. Alderman Neuber.
 Thank you. Thank you for letting me speak again. The other thing I want to mention, even though I'm asking for the city not to support, you know, the council not to support this, isn't this the type of study that we have city personnel or our map does this or can get us into touch with different people that it's not going to cost $50,000? Isn't this the type of thing that our map is?
 was created for? That's a, that's a... I can speak to that a little bit, because, you know, RMAP is a part of the project team, and they do do great work around transportation planning. This is a little bit different. So this is actually looking at, so far as primary deliverables within this scope, we'll actually be looking at the design of the streetscape
 as well as the roadway and and determining how it should be designed to maximize yes I'll do the beach speaking here before us that's what we've done in the past oh I'm I'm sorry about Terrence Hall a comprehensive planner so you're awkward thank you so
 In our conversations with RMAP, you know, we laid out a whole scope of work that we thought this project would entail. And there were things that they felt comfortable doing.
 And we will move forward with those things with RMAP. There are things that they want to get involved in going forward. So when we do plans like this and other corridors, they can be a larger contributor. And then there were things that they didn't feel comfortable doing with the capacity that they have on staff. And so with those things, we look to other partners in the community and how they could fill the void.
 So we do have a project team made up of both local partners as well as foreign associates.
 Thank you. Alderman Durkee was next, then Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly. Alderman, can you pull your mic down, please? Thank you. I want to dovetail on some of the remarks by Alderman McNamara. One of the elements of the Madison Street corridor and the development project involves the southern part of that, which is also kitty corner to what we're also going to be voting on shortly with the Kishwaukee School project.
 So there's a comprehensive look south of this project would actually tie Morgan Street and the neighborhoods on the west side of Morgan Street and make the city more contiguous.
 The development is a moving target. I mean, and in this particular case, if you build it, they don't always come. But if you have developers sniffing around that want to invest private capital in the city, sometimes we take a risk and perform the study to attract that capital. Now, I agree that, you know, the...
 Maybe the firm is questionable, but at least the intent and the philosophy and the approach behind doing this, approaching the development in this way is proper.
 There are certain areas of the city that warrant development, but there's no private capital that's being attracted there. We develop a city sometimes in bits and pieces, and elements of development is a moving target. We have worked on North Main. Now somebody is interested in doing Essex that we have voted on. So I'm actually in support of the study because of what it means in the long term.
 Part of the history of our city staff is that they gather this data so that when grants or private developers or even the historic tax credits or the river edge development zone as these come online, we're ready to go with folks. If we don't do these studies, if we don't have knowledge, then we can't. Knowledge is power.
 So the important part of doing these studies is not that we're going to roll out next week and drop Madison and build it south. It's that if we do have private development, if there is private capital that wants to invest in that area, if they want to do the purpose-built community and tie in the Kishwaukee neighborhood to this and tie this across west to the river, we've got data to show them that will attract them to it.
 We don't do the study, we have no knowledge, we have nothing to offer, and we flounder. Waiting for what? I don't know. That's my thought. Alderman Thompson, Kelly. I've heard anyone say that we don't need to continue to invest in downtown. I don't think I've heard anyone say or even recommend that we don't need to have a vision or a study done on future plans of this community.
 What I am saying is that we have more than downtown, and I know it's driven by interest and it's driven by dollars, private dollars. And I understand those dollars were driven because they were asked to be driven.
 And if we're going to promote downtown, which I support downtown, and I support this study, but I support this study not putting it above other projects that has the safety of the residents at stake. I do, I seriously do. I seriously have a problem with
 of a certain individual. And this organization is in question because we did have a lot of discussion about them and doing business in this community. But we also need to do some planning in the dollars that we've already invested in our map, our partners and all those. I think our partnership is coming up for both for more dollars to be spent downtown.
 That's where our planning should start. And I understand you need the experts to bring you all in the other things. Well, our partners should also pitch in and help it to be done. If the Park District is on board, the Park District should be on board with planning dollars. But we also go through a great deal of pain when we sit and we talk about our CIP and we talk about our plans that we're going to do with those tax dollars.
 It's not evenly distributed or the priorities are whoever hollers the loudest or whoever gets their streets in. There has to be a better system in what we're working under. Thank you. I have a question, if I may. If it's the firm that is in question, can RMAP do this? Can we lay it over to see if they can do it? Is there a problem with that?
 With not, let's go with Alderman McNamara, then Mr. Ryan. So, thank you, Chairman. Thank you.
 I'll have staff follow up on this, but I actually, we laid it over last time for that exact reason, and they came back to my understanding saying that they couldn't do it for the same cost. And that's what staff time and other allotments, and I wasn't privy to those conversations, but that's what I was told is that local folks couldn't do it for the same cost. Mr. Ryan? I just wanted to say that we do have systems called the comprehensive plan.
 They're called the Capital Improvement Program, and they're called the Business Implementation Plan that the Community and Economic Development Department got unanimously approved by this council. Those are our guiding policy documents that we as staff utilize.
 One of the things that we've tried to push over the years is be able to leverage public dollars to bring in more private economic activity. Sometimes that changes the priority by which we do planning and corridor studies. But from South Main to West State to North Main to portions of East State Street to a planning group that we have on 11th Street, we're working on all of them in various degrees and stages.
 But just as we've done on major corridors, and safety is our priority, we also are looking at corridor projects that focus on some of the priorities that this city council has established through our comprehensive plan and our five-year business implementation plan, which is focus on the Rock River, improve the downtown aesthetics, bring in more economic activity,
 And there are things in our business implementation on West State, on North Main, on South Main. Unfortunately, on some of those corridors, until some of the state highway construction done, it's very difficult to do infill development when you're just trying to keep existing businesses alive.
 But it is a balancing act, I will agree with you. But we are follow, I just want to emphasize, we're following the policy documents that you as a city council approved. Okay, clerk, can you please call the roll? Aye. Aye. No. Aye. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
 On to number four. Do we have a discussion on that? Okay, then, clerk, please call the roll. Dursley. Aye. Getsch. Aye. Austin. Aye. Thompson-Kedden. Aye. Aye. Aye. Shearer. Aye. Matter passes. Okay, on to new businesses ordinances, planning and development committee. Alderman Durkee. Thank you for your attendance. Under Roman numeral 9A.
 9A1, an ordinance terminating the east side TIF. Number two, an ordinance terminating the west side TIF. And number three, an ordinance terminating the 7th Street TIF. I'd like to place these up for, I'm sorry, I'd like to suspend rules on these items. All in favor? Aye. Thank you. And then I'd like to place up for passage Roman numeral 9A1 through 3.
 Pardon me, Alderman, I see a number four here. That was held, Chairman held that out. Held that, okay. Should we do a room call? Clerk, can you please call the roll? Aye. McTally, aye. Aye. Newberg, aye. Beach, aye. K-5. Okay, matter passes. Code and regulations? The Chair is going to hold out item number two.
 15, 16, 17, 18 this evening. And I move to suspend the rules on the remaining items. Aye. All in favor? Aye. I place those items up for passage, Your Honor. Kurt, any discussion? Clerk, can you please call the roll? Aye.
 Yes, I apologize. I was distracting the clerk, so she didn't catch which items you placed up. Holding out items number 2, 15, 16, 17, and 18. Thank you. Hi. I'm sorry, I'll...
 I'm sorry, but I will vote aye. I'm going to hold up my guess. She votes aye. Aye. Any other comments or agree? A matter passes. Finance and personnel. Remaining item. Your Honor, I would like to move to go into closed session this evening to discuss pending litigation matters. Second. All in favor? Aye. You will all vote for that. Thank you.
 Matter passes. We're going into closed session. Opposed? We can do roll call. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. No. Aye.