Start in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Father, tonight we ask that your wisdom will be used here in this council meeting. May things go according to the way you would want them to, Lord. And may it be for the best for the city, whatever is voted on tonight. We pray that you be with our police departments, our fire departments, those who keep an eye on us while we sleep, take care of us during the day, in our waking hours.
 Most of all, Lord, we praise your presence. We'll be here in this council meeting tonight. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, clerk. If you please, call the roll. Gatches, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell,
 Council Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, C-11 President. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum for motion to accept the journal. There's been a motion and a second. Is there any amendments or changes?
 Hearing none, all those in favor of approving the journal, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. We have no public hearing this evening. We do have several speakers lined up for public participation. I'd remind our speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Yousuf.
 Thank you.
 I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian.
 President Abraham, President Franklin, Governor Rove, Governor Franklin, Governor D. Isaac, President John F. Kennedy, Honorable King Nelson Mandela, these people led their nations to make wars and find their social and political reforms that greatly improved the lives of their people. My research reveals that these leaders shared four common characteristics, which I call the four Cs.
 compassion, character, and communication. This is what we foresee about how we might apply things. The best is not how you cover it, and know what they are doing. They do not make wild assertions about what's left and what's in the picture. They have a vivid picture of what they are getting. The present is not their only motivation. They are also a prime example of
 understand their skills to surround themselves with the right people and the right time. Their whole circle of very diverse consists of very different and different levels of agency.
 and that is very important. A leader most valued is the passion. Leaders treat their people with the utmost dignity and respect. They are most intelligent, very honest. They are a natural find in common ground with various kinds of people with real consent. They are the way of life. They are the way of life. They are the way of life. They are the way of life. They are the way of life.
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
 Thank you very much.
 Our next speaker this evening is Roland Posca. To do the impossibles. To whom? You plus me. We will achieve respect for all. We will end prejudice. We will end violence. We will expand thinking and the money supply. Plus...
 End war in 63 years. Stop revenge. December 7th, 2015. To whom? From me. Fishy Whale, Roland Posca, 815-608-8186. To do the impossibles. Please help put together the agenda for the second economic conference.
 on the 4th of July in Rockford, Illinois, USA. Between the two noons, at State and Main, plus Joe Marino Park, at the river, hosted by Fishy Whales. Come one, come all, yes, always. P.S., start the next agenda. Thank you. Our next speaker is Rolanda Collins.
 Rolanda Collins with a mother's prayer. I want to start with my passion for all our children to grow into whoever God created them to be and let them give us what was intended for their purpose here on earth. God organized it all.
 Transforming the minds of youth using all the tools to neutralize the violence and to restore hope in the community. Picture a place where kids can go to exercise their dreams. A place where they have the resources they need to make their life less stressful. A place where they can come to express themselves. A place that is safe.
 Rockford has a serious problem with abandoned houses and vacant structures on both the east and west side. These abandoned places are not only eyesores to look at, but they are very hazardous to the community. Multiple fires and even deaths are occurring more frequently from the homeless looking for shelter. The city really doesn't have the budget to reduce the problem, and destroying the property shouldn't always be the solution.
 What if the city could donate these buildings, properties, remodel these structures into youth centers and young adult program facilities? This will be different from any other program the city has ever developed when it comes to growth and development for the youth and young adults in our city.
 These resource centers will not only transform the infrastructure of the city, these new programs will provide new jobs and restore hope in communities that are plagued with census violence. The facilities will provide all the life skills they need to have a better future without having to go to jail or dropping out of school. The centers will have different occupational classes where the youth can receive the adequate training and the skillful trade by a profession in that field.
 Most importantly, the program will focus on attitude adjustment and getting to the root problem that is causing all the violence in the community and in the schools. I honestly believe that these facilities should operate 24-7 because of the seriousness of the problem in our community. Youth domestic violence is on the rise and these children need our help. Taking them to jail and juvenile detention centers is not always the solution and in most cases it only perpetuates the problem.
 I have a solution. Two buildings on each side of town. YouthBuild could help with that project to lower the cost of reconstruction. Not for profit. It's for the children and young adults in our community that desperately need the opportunity to live life.
 Most children at this time aren't even valuing life. It's not about the world. It's about themselves. Nobody can tell them how to live. We have to encourage them to use their gifts and show them a positive way to use them. Thank you. I know we have a pretty crowded council chamber tonight and I just wanted to remind all of
 To be respectful to everyone that is here and generally speaking, we do not cheer, boo or anything else when speakers are speaking or when any of the council members are speaking. There's a couple issues tonight that are very charged issues for the community and just ask everybody to keep that in mind. Our next speaker is John Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the men and all the women, and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Proprietary State 28, verse 13. It is of human nature to hide our sins or overlook our mistakes. But it's hard to learn from a mistake you don't acknowledge making. And what good is a mistake if it doesn't teach you something? To learn from an error, you need to admit it, confess it, analyze it, and make adjustments so that it doesn't happen again. Everybody makes a mistake, but a fool will only repeat them.
 Next year will be Booker Washington's 100 year old birthday. It is and was the place to go back then after and during World War II. The reason being because they did not want the blacks to come into the downtown area or the east side of the river. Now here we are 99 years later asking city council to make the site a historical landmark. Tonight is just like deja vu all over again. We are also here because there are some people that do not want us to be
 move on the east side of the river. Why? By law, we have a right to move and live any place on this great nation of ours. So this is why I must talk about our history right here in Rockland because there are some people that are going out of their way to omit certain facts and labor African Americans as lazy, liars, thieves, drug dealers, and I can go on and on. I've only got three minutes.
 So why, when other people tell their history, they come off as being patriotic. When other people talk about where they came from and who they are and what their history is, they call it patriotic in America before the Europeans explore. When black people do it, they label it militant, they are called rebels, they are called Afrocentric. That's been the big difference. Our history for some reason seems to have become offensive.
 I realized that our history, I realized that they are going out of their way to omit certain facts pertaining to African American presence. I knew then and right now that I had to do something instead of waiting for somebody else to tell our story. So we have to stop being afraid to tell what our true history are. African American ethnic group is deeply divided. Until we start working together, we'll never be able to achieve our goals for better education, jobs, safety.
 and living environment. Just to go off the script, Newtown feared their property values would go down. They also feared that the residents that's coming from fairgrounds is on drugs, gangs, violence, stealing, and killing. That's not true. Let's look at the other side. RHA residents also agreed that RHA did not do a good job in talking about what their plans are, and a lot of residents do not trust RHA as well as a lot of
 peoples in the community do not trust RHA. RHA have a lot of good ideas, a lot of good plans that came up with the new choice plans, the new choice neighborhood, but in order to implement the new choice neighborhood, they need to work with the community as well as work with the residents. Me, myself, I'm implementing the program of the new choice neighborhood, but I can't implement that alone. We have to be able to work together with housing authority. And just to end my conversation, we just lost
 a young lady in fairgrounds that's 24 years old. And she left four young kids. She was shot by a stray bullet. This incident could have been avoided and we deal with the gangs that's in fairgrounds. And I'm just gonna put it out there. I call them the dreadlock gangs. And then those used to live in fairgrounds,
 battling each other, but we cannot control the gun. They're able to get these bullets with these bullets that can go through walls. They're military bullets. Then the one lady just spoke, she did not mention the fact that the thing she got coming up on the 20th of December, she lost her daughter, her two children, her two daughters, and her
 and her son-in-law to violence and whatever. And then tomorrow we got a meeting at four o'clock in Fairgrounds. Our meeting is peace and non-violence, but it's going to be directed at this young man that's sitting back here. Stand up, my man.
 Let me see your face. This is a young man who lost his fiancée at their apartment and whatnot. So we're going to go out our way to help him. And no matter where I'm living in RHA or not, I'm in this for life. It's not about a job. It's about helping the people who need help. So I'm not doing this to get paid. I'm doing this because it's my duty as an interrupter. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Thank you. Our next speaker and final speaker this evening is Toby Haldeman.
 Is this on? Yes. Can you hear me? Never before in my years of coming to council have I ever seen so many uniformed police officers here. I think it's a tragedy, it's a waste of resources and they need to be elsewhere, because I believe these people can't control themselves. My apologies for not being here last week to speak. Our neighborhood watch meeting was moved up a day. And happy belated birthday to Prophet Youssef.
 Another robbery of a store, this time on 7th Street. Pistol whipping included. Suspects got away. Another shooting in Rockford, this time at a park just blocks from my house. Getaway vehicles hit a blaze on the west side. On Sunday, my neighbor went to drop some mail in the mailbox on Broadway. Several doors down from the post office, he noticed feet and legs sticking out of a doorway. A man was passed out drunk, a stream of urine from the man to the curb.
 To those of us who frequent Broadway, this is an ongoing issue and not likely to change. I myself have witnessed this man passed out many times this year and last. I will not call the police on him because the police do not want Mr. Squishy Pants in their car. So they call an ambulance and that costs us, the taxpayers, hundreds of dollars yearly.
 And yet another tragedy, a woman was shot and killed at fairgrounds. Surprisingly, Ron Kluwer shows up moments later. I personally would like to know how far away does Mr. Kluwer live from a subsidized housing project. So almost the next thing out of Mr. Kluwer's mouth is, and I paraphrase, you don't live with this on a daily basis but the people at fairgrounds do. That is why we need to move them. We need to move them away from the crime.
 This will not work. I have an analogy, a little story I just made up. Alderman Beach watched me write it. There's a horse standing in a pasture being attacked by flies. The flies are attacking this horse day after day. The horse is helpless to do anything about it. The only thing he can do is swat at them with his tail. This is only
 a temporary fix because as soon as he stops wishing his tail the flies come back. So the horse runs clear over to the other side of the pasture. At last the horse is free of the flies, not one fly in sight. The horse thinks that he has finally rid himself of the flies. The horse is sadly mistaken you see. The horse does not know this but the flies are naturally attracted to horses and no matter where the horse goes the flies will follow.
 The world is a wicked place, not because of the evil that dwells here, but because of the people standing by the sidelines watching it happen. Become involved in your community. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you to our speakers this evening. Next on our agenda is a special report of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners on the selection of the new police chief.
 I would ask for a motion to allow that presentation to go forth with our guests. Oliver Beck. So moved. I would move that we allow Ian Lineberry to make the report. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Is there any discussion? All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. So I'd invite Mr. Lineberry and other members of the that are here to help make the presentation. Please come forward and send a special report. And if you'd like to use the Q&A.
 Good evening, Mayor, Alderman, members of the administration, audience members. Thank you very much for inviting us here tonight to make this presentation. My name is Ian Lineberry. I'm secretary to the City of Rockford Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. With me I have Chairman of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, Lorraine Logan, as well as Chad Legault from IO Solutions. We'll hear from Chad in a little bit. Later last month, the end of last month,
 Attorney Hayes emailed around to the alderman and to members of the administration a phased timeline that the Commission had promulgated outlining the general phases of our timeline for the search for the new chief and I hope that everyone has had an opportunity to review that. I thought that I might go over that with you and entertain your questions about that if there are any and also allow Chad LaGalle to speak
 a bit about how IO Solutions may be involved in that process. As you know, communities don't go through this type of process very often and it's difficult to be an expert in something you don't do frequently. And so the Commission has wisely looked to the input of experts. In this case, we're in late stage discussions with Mr. LaGalle and his company to assist us during various phases of the process.
 The Commission has decided, rightfully I believe, to place a very high premium in this process on receiving input from key stakeholders, members of the committee, aldermen, the administration. And so we are hoping, and I know that there are some meetings already scheduled, to hear from community members at various forums to receive input from the community on the qualifications they would like to see in their next Chief of Police.
 The first phase of our process contemplates that. You'll see, you know what, I should ask this. Does everyone have a copy of the timeline? Mayor, would it be okay if I handed this to the alderman? Certainly. And we, if you need help, our clerk could help get it distributed.
 for your frame of reference while I'm talking. I'm going to begin with phase one. The first step in phase one is to secure a professional search firm. As I indicated, we are in the late stage of discussions with Mr. Lagal and his company. Second in the
 phase one process is to receive input from community members and key stakeholders and we're doing two principal things really three principal things to do that first we've asked for help from the alderman to host in their wards public meetings where interested members of the community can come and provide input I know that there are two scheduled today one on December 10
 and one on December 17, both at 5.30. The December 10 meeting is at the Millennium Center, hosted by Alderman McNamara and Alderman Hervey. The meeting on December 17 will be held at St. Peter's Cathedral at 5.30. That meeting is hosted by Alderman McNamara, Beck Newberg, and Thompson Kelly. And I want to thank you on behalf of the Commission for taking the initiative to set those up. And I understand that there are additional meetings that will be set up, so I thank all of you for playing a role in seeing that happen.
 It's critical that we hear from members of the community on this very important process. One of the other things that we are doing is soliciting input from key stakeholders. We are in the late stages of developing a list of key stakeholders who will receive from the Commission a survey, an online survey that they could take. We're trying to make this as easy as possible for people to provide input to the Commission. That will be forwarded to individuals later this week.
 Honestly, that could happen as early as tomorrow. I'm sorry I misspoke. We want to give ample time for respondents to give feedback before December 18th. Ideally, we'd like to have as much of the public input as possible before that December 18th deadline you see at the conclusion of Phase 1. Of course, we recognize that the schedule has to be somewhat flexible. We have to accommodate best practices where necessary.
 and we recognize that we may need to move some of those dates, but we're going to try to stick to it as best we can. The third and final aspect of receiving public input is to, with the help of our local media partners, to advertise that anyone with information they would like to share,
 can do so by putting that information in writing to me as secretary of the police and the board of fire and police commissioners they can send it to me via email or they can put it in writing and send it to me by US mail and I will compile all of those responses and see that they make
 They make their way to the commission for their consideration in phase two where we will begin preparing an ideal candidate profile before we post the position. In order to post the position, it's prudent to describe exactly what type of candidate you are looking for and that's where the ideal candidate profile comes in.
 enlist the help of IO solutions in that process. They have significant experience in the area of recruitment and hiring of
 public safety executives and I'll let Chad talk a little bit more about that process in a little while. Following our preparation of the ideal candidate profile we will post the open position and commence our recruitment efforts and those recruitment efforts again will be assisted by IO Solutions having been through the process they are intimately aware with the appropriate forum to get the
 the York to cast as wide a net as the commission asked them to cast in looking for candidates internally and externally
 Phase 3 will open the application period and begin initial screening of candidates. During that process, we will receive status reports from our search firm on those screenings. The search firm will also begin work on securing assessors for the assessment center, which is perhaps the most important component of the search process. Again, I'll defer to Chad to talk a little bit more about what those assessment center processes look like.
 Phase 4 will be the step in the process where we determine the finalists and provide that additional screening of those few applicants who make it through to the final stages. And finally, we will, in Phase 5, ask for assistance from the aldermen again.
 where we would like to have various events, one or more, with community members, hopefully with the assistance of the Alderman, to provide the community an opportunity to meet the final candidates before the assessment center and before the final process takes place. So with that, before I turn the microphone over to Mr. LaGalle, are there any questions from the floor?
 I'll call the council members just so I can manage the microphones. Thank you. I'm just wondering, December 21st through January 8th is the phase two. Do you feel that's adequate time for this information to get out to all the people who
 other than local that want to apply. There's been some discussion about us being a little bit flexible on that date and we're gonna rely in large part upon the
 the expertise of IO Solutions. Again, they've been through this process many times. They know what potential applicants are looking for and where they'll receive their information. So we will defer to their expertise on whether or not that timeframe is long enough. Is there a... Good follow-up. Is that where, in other words, that date
 say it's January 6th or 7th, you could announce that that date is extended and it would be
 I think there would have to be some sort of public aspect to it as far as how the mechanics of extending that date would work. I'm not sure as I stand here before you. I think that what will likely happen is that we will determine how long the period will be before the position opens so that if we decide it needs to be longer than January 8th, we would announce that at the beginning of the application period rather than extending it during the process.
 Well, thank you for the timeline. We really appreciate it. One of the things that I'm looking at your timeline here, have you put a budget to that? We have not. We have asked IOW Solutions to provide us with a proposal, and we've not seen that yet. Are you only asking for one proposal? We are only asking for one proposal at this time. IOW Solutions, just to give you a little bit of history, I didn't do this, and I should have. Thank you for bringing it up, Alderman.
 The Commission has historically worked with an individual by the name of Chris Hornick. He owns CW Solutions. He assisted us in the process of hiring Fire Chief Bergsten and has assisted us in every subsequent promotional process that we have been through. And the Commission has been very pleased with the results that we've received from Chris and his company.
 Earlier this year, Chris entered in discussions with IO Solutions to sell his company, and by the close of the year, they will have closed that transaction. And so IO Solutions will have acquired CWH, and we are told that Chris will be involved. He has pledged to be involved with the assessment center this time around. So what we're doing is going to a known commodity
 whom we're comfortable with and whom we know provides excellent outputs and who we know understands the community having worked with us for many years. That's the thought process. Let me talk to Carl and then Herbie. To what extent will the public be privy to the assessment center content?
 A lot of times we know what we're looking for. We want somebody who's open. We have those sort of soft factors or personality factors. But I think the other side is equally important and that is what don't we want?
 I know you're not going to hand them out ahead of time but I would kind of like to know what are the individual assessments that will be used personality assessment some things are better than others I just have a personal interest in knowing whether those are efficient and good I'll just use the word good assessments for a position with that kind of importance
 Sure, and that's a very good question. I think as you observed, we can't very well be public about what's involved before we do it because we want there to be an element of surprise to it, for lack of a better word. We don't want anyone to have the advantage of being able to spend a significant amount of time preparing for the specific segments of the assessment center. But I'll let Chad talk about that in more detail because I'm sure he can give your thoughts
 a much more deliberate and thoughtful response. I'm wondering maybe, especially for a number of council members that may not have been around for either of the chiefs,
 selection, if you could just give us some background on what is an assessment center because it may be a term that members of the public and some members of the council may be unfamiliar with. Yeah, you know, having not been through the assessment center for either of the chiefs, I'm in a bit of a handicap on that too and so I'll let Chad talk about that but I see he's made some notes so he'll be sure to represent that. Thank you. That's a good point. Other questions for the council before you're going to turn it over to him?
 Okay, thanks. We'll have a chance to ask him questions too. Thank you. Okay, thank you very much for your attention. I appreciate being invited here tonight. With that, I'll turn it over to Chad Legault of IO Solutions. Chad. Good evening. Good evening. Thank you.
 I'll just offer you a little bit of background about IOS Solutions. I'm the president of IOS Solutions. We have about 20 years of experience working with public safety departments to develop assessments and selection tools. We basically specialize in public safety assessment. We work with police and fire departments around the nation.
 We have a team of about 20 consultants that have masters and PhDs in industrial organizational psychology, which is basically the science of selection or test development. We specialize in a lot of leadership assessments,
 We do these all over the country with cities like Atlanta and Houston, Baltimore, the city of Chicago, San Diego, Miami. We also specialize in a lot of high litigation situations where agencies, cities are overseen by the federal department of justice and we come alongside the DOJ and their experts to help design assessments that will solve the litigation problems of the past that the city is dealing with.
 So we have a lot of experience developing assessments for large scale cities, medium size cities, small cities alike. We really have a specialty in the area of leadership assessment and that kind of ties in directly with the question about what an assessment center is.
 a high quality assessment tool that seeks to simulate critical aspects of the job. So they tend to measure behavioral or skill based attributes, leadership, teamwork, interpersonal skills, communication skills. What these assessments seek to do is mimic parts of a job. So if you're talking about a chief executive position, you're talking about things like making public presentations.
 dealing with different groups of people, dealing with community groups, possibly role playing with subordinate individuals that they have to manage and supervise, dealing with in basket exercises, these are simulations of the sorts of things someone might find on their desk each day, correspondence that they have to respond to, different problems, administrative problems, logistical problems, personnel problems that they have to react to. So it really seeks
 a variety of different exercises that sample some of the challenging tasks that executive personnel deal with on a day-to-day basis. And really what we're seeking to do with an assessment center is simulate the most challenging things someone deals with to see who can deal with those things most effectively.
 Typically with an assessment center, you bring in personnel that are doing the job that you're hiring for. So a lot of times you're bringing in chief executives from other police departments to observe the candidate's handling of the situation and then evaluate them based on various skills that have been determined to be critical for success in that position.
 So, the process of developing a candidate profile for the chief in this community would involve a process of outlining all the skills and abilities that someone needs to possess to be successful and then building the assessment center to measure those particular skills and abilities by using work samples from the job of a police chief.
 So that would basically be our central goal. Some of the other things that work with that center piece of the assessment process are finding a group of reasonably qualified candidates. So at the onset, we're taking a profile that's developed based on information from the community and other stakeholders, defining the knowledge, the skills, and abilities that are necessary for the position.
 and then using those to identify specific experiences, qualifications, training, so on and so forth of an individual that would make them qualified to succeed in this position. So we're basically putting together a vetting system for applications that can be essentially graded so that the applicants that submit packages to us can be objectively scored based on criteria that we put together beforehand. So that's kind of one of the first phases of the process.
 After that, everything that we collect about somebody in the form of an application, a resume, a personal history questionnaire which will give us a lot of insight into their background will be used to whittle down the field of possible applicants so a presentation can
 At that point, those candidates that appear to be good fits for the position, there would be some additional background screening of those individuals, looking into their background, making sure that there's nothing in their background that is going to be problematic in terms of holding an important post like this. That may whittle down the field further. And then ultimately we're building up to that assessment center where those candidates can
 Probably anywhere from three to five different simulation exercises and raided by a group of certainly incumbent police chiefs from various other communities. And then there might also be some other individuals that serve as raiders, community members, stakeholders, something along that line that has yet to be determined.
 Hopefully that's a pretty good overview of the assessment center process and some of our involvement as an outside consulting firm in a process like this. Are there any questions I can answer? Questions? Alden Connell. So how are you going to have these questions weighted as far as are you going to take into consideration all the information that you're gathering from the stakeholders, the public and all that along with just what you feel is the best for the position?
 Yes, there's really two things that factor into the content of the assessment. The stakeholder input will help define basically the archetype or the profile of a successful chief. So we're taking that information and really using it to define what dimensions, what characteristics or what skills that we need to measure throughout the course of the assessment. That lays out for us our assessment plan.
 Then we're going to try and pick exercises, so simulations of the job that best are capable of measuring those particular skills, abilities, knowledge areas, what have you. So whatever we get back from the stakeholders as far as creating the profile is really going to drive the content.
 some of the waiting decisions in terms of which exercise or more or less important are really determined by their robustness certain exercises might just be measuring more skills and abilities that are critical for the position in that case they would bear more weight so we try and make the exercise weights proportional to the skills and abilities that they're helping us to assess questions all in her just I guess knowing that now does your would a Christman assessment include
 crisis response, for example. I mean, I don't, the in-basket things are important, you have to have good administrative skills, but I'm far more concerned how someone would handle a police-involved shooting of a 12-year-old with a BB gun in a park than I am the in-basket.
 Those are the kinds of issues I think that test the true character of a person and also that's what tells me whether that person has the profile and the leadership I'm looking for for an urban environment. So that's what I meant by don't tell me what's in your assessment center but you know I don't
 You know, people use lie detector tests and things of that sort. I want to know how people respond. What is their position on Terry stops? What's their position on profiling, et cetera, et cetera? Not so much the mechanical aspects of their background and personality, but their response to real life situations.
 One of the strengths of an assessment center process is its ability to simulate reality, which is why we consider it one of the most reliable forms of assessment. And critical incidents or tactical abilities are a very important part of being involved in any law enforcement agency and certainly at the chief's level.
 So, more than likely there would be an exercise that specifically is geared toward measuring somebody's tactical abilities or their field operations abilities. And we would try and simulate that in terms of supplying a candidate information in the form and fashion that it might evolve in a real world incident. That's one of the goals of an assessment center is to try and make things feel very real world, both in the timing of it in terms of the flow of information.
 So, we do seek to simulate things like that, but there are also other ways that we seek to gain insights and information in that realm. Sometimes what we also want to know is people's opinions about things and their philosophies about how to deal with things that aren't necessarily easy to extract from a performance, a realistic performance.
 But you also want to get some of the background thinking in terms of how somebody views a situation or how they would seek to deal with a critical incident. So sometimes as part of an assessment center, we'll actually have a structured interview piece that actually deals with the background thoughts and philosophies that are helping somebody deal with a particular situation. Did that address your question? Ollivine Newberg then, Ollivine Beach. Thank you.
 Phase 1, 2 and 3, are those done purely by I.O. or are the fire and board involved in that? Because it looks like phase 4 determined finalist is all of this groundwork done beforehand by I.O. then all of a sudden the fire and board, you decide on the finalist that I.O. decides are the finalist.
 The Fire and Police Commission is ultimately charged with making those decisions regarding advancement of candidates, so the Commission will determine who those finalists are in concert with I.O. Solutions. I think that's your asking whether they're making the determination or the Commission is, right? Yes, I know. The Commission will make those determinations. So you're involved in all three of the, all five of the...
 That's correct. We will be, the Commission will be actively involved in each and every phase. Thank you. Thank you. In addition to the public input, do you have, from your experience, a list of best practices that really go over the best practices?
 over all those in authority in police departments throughout the country? Is there a list of things you've developed through the years that regardless of what the public input is, in addition to that, these are 10 or 12 things that must be in place before you'd ever recommend a person to be the chief of police? Absolutely. I think there is a general profile.
 and we would expect that a lot of the input that would be received from the stakeholders would match up nicely against that profile. But if there were certain deficiencies, we would still, based on our experience, expect that certain skills, though they may not have been brought up by the stakeholders, are still foundational to this sort of job. So we would take the input that we get, but we would basically match it up against a profile of a typical chief executive in a law enforcement agency to make sure that we're covering the entirety
 of the spectrum of skills, abilities, knowledge areas that a police chief has to possess. So we would make sure that it was a well-rounded profile. We would hope that the feedback would match up perfectly with that, but the reality is a lot of times there are certain issues that stakeholders are going to provide an opinion about that are much more critical to those stakeholders, and those would become the key
 focal point, but we are going to make sure that the rest is rounded out by other skills and abilities that would be typical in those positions. Likewise, there are a finite set of exercises, of assessments that can be used in this particular realm and we are going to operate based on our experience with that finite set of types of exercises.
 and make sure that we're creating a good match between the information we get from the stakeholders, the rest of a profile that we would consider appropriate for the position, and those exercises to make them all nicely work together. Thank you. Thank you. All the time, Kelly. How many of them? The makeup of your company and the diversity that you have in your company, if there?
 I'm sorry, can you repeat that one? The diversity in your company. The diversity of your company, make up background of your employees within your company. Sure. We have about 40 employees in our company. Off the top of my head, we have,
 probably about 60% female, 40% male. We have two African-American employees. We have about four or five employees of Asian descent. And then the rest would be Caucasian. Questions? Yes.
 I have a couple and I just want to encourage council members if you have additional questions that you think of feel free to continue a couple questions and I apologize if you already mentioned this are the it's been stated whether the applicant pool I think I already saw heard this but I want to make sure is open to both internal as well as external candidates
 My understanding is that the applicant pool will be both internal and external. So one of the things that's been talked about is casting something of a wide net in terms of recruitment so that external candidates can be invited into the process. In terms of that process, assuming there's going to be a recruitment process for both
 and external candidates. Is there any particular, I'm assuming the strategies may differ and I'm just interested and I apologize again if it's already mentioned, what types of strategies will be employed to make sure there's good balance of both internal and external candidates? Certainly.
 Our goal would be to put together a profile and make it available to anybody that wanted to submit an application. Certainly from our perspective, we're interested in getting the most diverse and the most qualified pool of applicants that we can possibly get. My hope would be that in the initial stages of putting together a process to evaluate the applications that come in, that we would decide on the application.
 the important factors for evaluating and screening those applications because we are effectively trying to in a sense rank order them so that we can present the best of the pool back to the commission as a recommendation. So sometimes and I haven't gotten into the fine-tuned details of how that process is going to go but sometimes in a process like this you're considering
 areas of interest in terms of evaluating someone's likelihood of being successful in a position like this. And sometimes, as far as incumbents are concerned, people that are already holding positions within the law enforcement agency, points are basically awarded for that experience and knowledge of the agency, knowledge of the community, that sort of thing.
 So that will be a point of discussion in terms of how to grade or evaluate applications in terms of the balance of different backgrounds that you run. Certainly someone's knowledge of the community or knowledge of the law enforcement agency here at Rockford would be a consideration. And again, related still on the profile, do you also incorporate when you're doing the
 a profile of the community as well as a current profile of the department and if so how are those things put together
 If you think about what we're trying to do in the initial stages in terms of putting out a package of information to prospective applicants, all of those things were part of that package. We're trying to provide a reasonable profile of the community so that they know about the type of community that they would be moving into working with them. Certainly a profile of the department size, demographics, challenges that are dealt with by the agency. So all of that information we would be providing.
 from community input as well as from the fire police commission, the police department as well, to try and put together a very comprehensive package. And in the profile of the position, we did just one of those pieces.
 I'm just wondering in terms of the profile of the department in particular is that something that and I don't know that I've asked this question in the past and it's just more germane probably now than it would have been with the experiences I would have had earlier in my time as mayor but with regard to the profile of the department I would just make available any of our staff who can certainly help on that if there's folks who you know I think to be very blunt about it we've advanced in a way over the last several years we've been
 That puts us in a good position relative to recruitment. In other words, we're not at day one dealing with officer use of force issues by way of example. That might be a detriment or concern of any department who might be looking at interviewing with the city of Chicago, let's say, for example. We've been through a lot of those things and have made a tremendous impact.
 advances there. So to extend some of those strengths and some of those experiences would be helpful if you become part of the profile. You may already glean that as you go through the public input process, but certainly want to make available our staff who can be available to support that information. Other questions?
 One final one I had and again I apologize for already mentioning it. You talked about the council members having a chance to meet the candidates. If you could just go over again what stage of that process do you think that would be and would it actually be, I remember when Chief Epperson was hired there was a meet and greet or something but it wasn't very formal and there wasn't really a good chance I would say to get equal time with all of the candidates.
 Is there any things that you have in mind right now in terms of council members in particular having a chance to engage the finalists that might be up and have input given back to the commissioners based on those impressions?
 I'm sorry, I caught most of your question. No problem. So is there any specifics that you've worked out right now with how council members in particular might be able to engage with finalists and get that input back to the commissioners prior to a decision being made? Yeah, we contemplate that.
 having a forum, a formal forum for all of the aldermen to come meet the finalists. I think the Commission would like for me to come and make periodic reports to the Council during closed session regarding progress, applicants. I think the Commission would be happy to
 to accommodate requests from the council for the administration to keep you advised throughout the process. I guess more particularly, the last time we had a meet and greet during the cycle when Chief Epperson was hired, I just didn't know if there would be some tool that we could make sure we get a good chance to relay information on all the candidates. In other words, a piece of paper, documenting impressions, providing scoring or weighting, as opposed to, you know, this guy seemed good, that one...
 didn't seem so good or something that would be a little bit more structured that might be supportive of getting the best possible information over to the commission. Any thoughts on that? Yeah, that suggestion makes very good sense. And I just looked to Chad, and he's nodding affirmatively. So I think that would be a good idea to provide a more structured form of feedback for the commission to consider before they make that final decision.
 thank you all the time Scott I'm sorry but I have one additional question yeah how familiar are you with the policy reforms Senate bill 1304 that has passed the Senate would that be included in the state bill yeah I won't recognize it by number give me some background
 this was the bill that that's going to affect starting january right this coming year that the state of illinois recently passed the police community improvement act i think might be going by name something like that which is uh mandate things like independent use of force reviews and a whole lot of other um issues uh representative leticia wallace happens to actually be in the council chambers tonight and was involved as one of the co-sponsors
 Is that going to be something that would be a topic of the profile or the screening and discussion for the candidates? Yeah, I can't say I'm intimately familiar with it myself, but certainly the aspects of that that would be considered valuable in terms of feedback from stakeholders would
 the profile and by virtue of that involved in the development of the assessment so particular issues will undoubtedly come up that we don't want to intentionally involve in the assessment exercises themselves. Well I would definitely want our state representatives involved in. Thank you. Other questions from the council members?
 Again, we just want to thank you on behalf of the council for the commission and the special report tonight. Secretary Linebar, any additional information you want or questions tonight?
 Nothing other than to say we would appreciate hearing from the rest of the aldermen about that third open house. The input sessions at the early stages of this are critical to the commission's work, and we look forward to hearing from each of you and your constituents on the ideal candidate profile.
 thank you look more question listening on all the other question I just think right now with saying that I think you should again announce the two meetings that are now set up how that would help us greatly since we're on
 TV. Yeah, absolutely. The first meeting will be held at the Millennium Center on December 10th, beginning at 5.30. The Millennium Center is at 220 South Madison Street. That meeting is being hosted by Alderman McNamara and Alderman Hervey.
 The second scheduled meeting will happen December 17th at St. Peter's Cathedral, also beginning at 5.30 p.m. St. Peter's is located at 1243 North Church Street here in Rockford. That meeting is being hosted by Alderman McNamara, Beck, Newberg, and Thompson Kelly. Alderman Cotto. Just so you guys know, I'll be hosting the 14th, 6th, and 8th on the 15th at 6.30 at Flynn Middle School.
 If the venue has to change, I will inform you guys. Is that for your regular neighborhood meeting? No, that's for this. For this? Yeah. The 15th. The 15th. 15th at 530 at Flynn. 630. 630. Flynn Middle School. Flynn Middle School. And that's for wards 8, 6, and 14. Thank you, Alderman. Alderman Beach, did you have a question? I had the impression that the 10th ward was going to come into that.
 I'm sorry, can you say it again? On Lester? I thought the 10th Ward was going to join that, although we've got a second ward that's not in, and that's near mine. Are they joining yours?
 i think uh anyone can join uh the two that i planned so i believe alderman getchis is considering joining one i just didn't put him down yet because i forgot which state he would like to well i think as long as we're making announcements we ought to cover every award and if the places are already set up then we ought to put the boards in those places so we can start telling the other people sorry sorry all right so um
 so the three times that we have right now December 10th December 15th December 17th so right that's right are we looking for additional dates to or is that what we're looking for three would be sufficient for our purposes if the remaining alderman wanted to consolidate that all the million I I think that the 11th word would be suited for the Millennium Center it's pretty pretty close to that area I could probably love important with
 and ultimate herbie on December 10th that's that's right yeah we'll disseminate this information along with whatever ways the council members want to get the information and the committee want to get the information out so that broadly looking at the information out I'm assuming if somebody from another ward comes to one of the other meetings nobody's going to object to that right these are well there's many opportunities which we can't get to that right
 right they'll be open all in the time to come please send all those out to all the aldermen because alderman mcmillan is not here and i really would like for her to have that information yeah so we'll share all those dates with all the council members as well as with the press and try to get that out as broadly as we can to the one with jeannie other questions from the council any of those logistics or details
 appreciate the effort to try to get as broad of a and as effective a profile as possible and again just would extend the opportunity to help put any of the profile information together on the community or the department and the final piece I think it would be helpful whatever structure or instrument might be helpful for council members to provide input I could then get back in a valuable form to the commissioners will be happy to try to
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. I'd like to put officers before we get through. Let me see. Well, I will say only for now. Sure. That's fine. I would like to acknowledge our state representative in the House. I'm Latisha Wallace. Welcome. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And we will.
 We'll have more detail officer's reports later on in the meeting. We'll go back right now up to petitions and communications. We have a number of those tonight that we want to get through. Start with planning and development. Alderman Durkee. Your Honor, I have two memoranda. The first one is a memorandum from David Sidney, Comprehensive Planning and Design Manager.
 and community and economic, within the community and economic development department regarding downtown's, a downtown strategic action plan draft. This will be referred to planning and development. We also have a memorandum from Vicki Manson, housing and program manager, regarding technical assistance scholarship programs. It's a discussion of potential action. This will also be referred to the planning and development committee.
 Thank you. Thank you, those members. We refer all of them. Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Marcy Leach, the Engineering Operations Manager, regarding the adoption of the revised flood insurance study and flood insurance rate maps. Number two, I have a memorandum from Marcy Leach, Engineering Operations Manager, regarding the amendment stormwater management coordinates. Number three, I have a memorandum from the Director of the Environmental Protection Agency for the flood insurance study. Number four, I have a memorandum from the Director of the Environmental Protection Agency
 Number three is a memorandum from Mark Rose, the land acquisition officer regarding the Ingersoll project easement from the City of Rockford to ComEd. Number four is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held December 15, 2015. Number five is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on
 Number six is a referral memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the zoning and land use administrator, regarding a request to file a legal objector on Hownie's zoning petition.
 Z-01-16 at 1947 North Lightford Road. And number seven is a referral from memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the zoning and land use administrator, regarding a request for final plat of advanced machine subdivision. All those seven items will be referred to the codes and regulations committee, Your Honor. As you refer, thank you.
 I have a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director regarding the application for federal grant funds for Head Start and early Head Start for the 2016-2017 budget year. And I have a memorandum from Wayne Dusk, Planning Administrator, Community and Economic Development Department regarding the U.S. EPA cleanup grant applications required resolution for the 20% local match. Both of these will be referred to Finance and Personnel.
 Thank you, Manager. Referred proclamations. We have, I believe, one proclamation this evening. Proclamation this evening is regarding Drunk and Drug Driving Prevention Month. I believe either Chief Owee or Deputy Chief Doug Pan will be here to accept the proclamation. Chief Pan is approaching.
 Whereas motor vehicle crashes killed 924 people in Illinois during the 2014 calendar year, and hundreds of those deaths involved a driver impaired by alcohol and or drugs. And whereas the December holiday season is traditionally one of the most deadly times of the year for impaired driving. And whereas for thousands of families across the state and the nation, holidays are a time to remember loved ones lost.
 Whereas organizations are joining together with the Drive Sober, Get Pulled Over, and other campaigns that foster public awareness of the dangers of impaired driving and anti-impaired driving law enforcement efforts. Whereas the city is proud to partner with the Illinois Department of Transportation's Division of Traffic Safety and other safety groups in an effort to make our roads and streets safer this year.
 Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morse, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim December 2015 to be Drunk and Drug Driving Prevention Month, and we urge our citizens to promote awareness of the impaired driving problems within our state and within our community, and to support those programs and policies that will help us reduce incidences and promote safe and healthier behaviors regarding the use of alcohol and drugs in this community this December holiday season and throughout the year. Chief? Thank you.
 Thank you Mayor, thank you Council for the proclamation. This is Officer Trout, he's one of our DUI investigators. They do a fabulous job throughout the year. We've had over 500 DUI arrests both last year and this year. It's really a problem that continues in this city. We need to continue to do our enforcement efforts but we also need to find ways to prevent it as the proclamation declares.
 We had just last Friday morning, we had a fatal crash that was the result of drunken driving and the impacts on the families involved in that. There's three families involved that were directly impacted by that and I can't imagine the heartbreak that they feel.
 Even the family, of course, of the drunk driver, he's facing a lot of serious consequences as a result of that act. So I thank you for the proclamation, and we look forward to working with our partners to prevent drunken driving and to take the enforcement action that we can. Thank you very much. Reports of committees.
 of Turkey thank your honor three items I would like to ask you to spend rules on the city so I do want to read them first I agree with that right the first item is a committee recommends approval of license agreement between Zion Development Corporation in the city of Rockford for use of a president's it's 312 Irving Avenue
 community resource center legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance second item is committee of recommending the approval of a license agreement between Zion development corporation for the use of a residence at nine zero eight eight avenue as a community
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And the final item is the committee recommends approval of the proposed deed in lieu of foreclosure between Valencia Developers LLC and the City of Rockford for the property at 500 to 518 Fisher Avenue. I'd like to thank that rule. Any questions? Thank you.
 Thank you. There's been a motion second spend the rules on a new committee reports from a number six a items One two and three all those in favor suspended rules and those items. Please signify by saying aye Aye close. No, I say have it the rules will be suspended. Thank you Then I would place those three items up for passage matters up for passage is their discussion All of them back in me. Thank you mayor for item A3 uh valencia, what's our plans to market that uh property?
 Mr. Cagnone, do you want to take that? Thank you, Your Honor. We would continue to reach out to developers and partners to see if we can put together a proposal. If needed, we would also go out for requests for proposals to redevelop the property. Thank you, Alderman Harvey. Some years ago, I think it was during my first term,
 I thought we already accepted a deed in lieu of foreclosure or was that the fisher avenue I don't know if there were if there are most I know it's a lot of there are a lot of apartment buildings there but I would ask Mr Hayes there was something that we voted on because I remember they came out to $200,000 a unit or something is that a different development I thought we already had deed for that we had done something and paid money for it
 So I'm not understanding why we're giving a deed in lieu of foreclosure. Who are they foreclosing on? I don't know. So Mr. Cagnone, Mr. Hayes wants to take that. Sure. So when this project came forward as a residential project that we commissioned right into the head window of the housing market crash, the city's security in the matter relied on bank financing.
 being in place and then the city would fund the first unit and then the bank would fund the rest of the units. The developer was nearly complete with the first unit. We issued final inspection reports and that triggered an obligation under the development agreement to fund their reimbursements at that point which was $243,000.
 The bank then took a turn on the developer and the general contractor left the job after the bank said that there wouldn't be any more funding for the job. That put that project into foreclosure. The city's security in the matter was the property. We didn't have other security. So right now we have an option of taking the property back as a deed in lieu of foreclosure
 There is no other assets of this LLC available to go get. We don't have a personal guarantee in this matter. I don't recall other Fisher Avenue deed in lieu of foreclosures. We have had other largely residential developments that didn't pan out in the last recession and we have accepted a couple of other deed in lieu of foreclosures but I don't recall another one on Fisher Avenue.
 So when we did that first vote, we paid that $240 or whatever. Was that during my term or was that before? I don't remember paying the developer. The River North TIF was created for this project, and this project development agreement came before council and was approved. What year would that have been? I believe that that was 2008. 2008?
 when all of the projects were approved and then I think 2009 the funding the construction issues and funding issues came forward and we did a reimbursement I might be off a year but it looks like it was 2000 so okay all right I just thank you all of them really
 I know there's a high number of apartments in that building as it stands and one thing I did like about the former developers proposal was that they would make larger apartments and have less number of apartments is can we require that same kind of thing when we go out for another request for proposal Mr Hayes or Mr Cagnoli I didn't start with Mr Hayes
 part of the issue where staff has insisted on that de-densification and in fact the property now has lost its
 zoning to be reestablished as it was when this project started. It's got to be de-densified or the council has to take up a zoning matter to allow it to exceed those density issues. So it's my recollection that there were nine or ten units in each one of these buildings and the maximum now is eight in each of these four buildings.
 I might have those digits off and maybe Todd could help. Mr. Cagnoli? I believe that's generally correct, Your Honor. And just to add some additional comments to Alderman Hervey's question, there was a property located at 533 Fisher, which was the north side of Fisher Avenue, in which we did a development agreement with the property owner a few years back, and that may be the property that Alderman Hervey's thinking about related to some NSP funds.
 Thank you. Alderman Thomas-Kelley. Have we had conversations with staff or the legal department with the owner of this LLC and possibly coming up with a solution? Ms. Hayes. For the last two and a half or three years, we have been pushing this developer to develop consistent with this agreement and they have been unable to do so and they have been unable to find other investment partners to proceed
 as this was initially set forth. I believe that it was sometime last year they finally resolved the litigation between the bank and this developer. In that settlement, the developer bought back all the debt to the bank.
 So the only debt on the property was the city's position and that is the only recorded legal interest against this property right now other than city property condition issues related to building and property standards violations. So this deed in lieu of foreclosure would close out all those issues. The LLC that was formed for this real estate investment has no other assets.
 And so this would resolve the matter between the developer and the city, and the city would receive back its security, which is this property. We'd seek to market it again along the lines of present zoning, which will not allow it to be redeveloped, at least at this point, without city council action as it was when this project started.
 I'm just have we been trying to do something or get some interest in this property because my concern is I think there's already been some vandalism I remember driving past this one there's some cleanup needs so we're going to be taking on yet another property we're going to have to ensure it we're going to be boarding it up I don't know if it's being vandalized or broken into where are we in terms of having
 someone ready to take this property and get something done with it? Or do we need to look at, well, probably not demolition, but what are we looking at doing? Mr. Cagnoni, Mr. Hays again.
 Thank you, Your Honor. You are correct. We've had a number of neighborhood standards and property standards on this property. We boarded the property up on a number of occasions. Over the last 18 months, the current LLC has been marketing the property for sale, which has resulted in us speaking with a number of individuals interested in redeveloping the property.
 The proposed sale price has been a barrier for those developers to move forward. The city potentially exercising its authority with the interest that it has on the property because of the development agreement could help resolve that situation. Actively, right now, we do not have a developer that's willing to pursue forward. We have some interest, but we'll have to continue to work those opportunities.
 what is the value that the city has i'm sorry but all the time what is the value that the city has in the appraisal price of this property you want to take that out we have not had an appraisal of the property in its current state other questions so again up for passage under
 new committee reports from number six items one two three those matters are for passage if there's no further discussion or questions on those items i'd ask the clerk please please call the roll jerky hi catches hi i'm here uh 683 no i am 683 no i am the remainder i know 683 no i am
 Thompson, Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Beck. Sciarolli. Seven. I'm sorry. Five ayes on number three. I'm sorry. Five ayes on number three and 12 ayes on the rest, one and two. So the matter's all passed. Thank you. We've got it. Yeah.
 6, 8, 3. This Roman numeral 6A, item 3, I had 7 ayes, 5 noes. Right. And on the other two, I had 12 ayes, 0 noes. 0 noes. So the matter is all passed. Thank you.
 reports committee so much really your honor Roman numerals six the one through 13 and thank you there's been emotions to spend the rules and number six be items one through 13 on the agenda there second but emotion second spend the rules and those items all those in favor please say aye opposed no I say have there was be suspended all right place items one through 13 of the passage
 so up for passage under roman numeral 6b items 1 through 13. all those are now up for passage i'm sorry you've moved in second to spend the rules all those in favor suspended the rules please say aye opposed no i just have it i just want to make sure i've got that so the rules been suspended the manager for passage all of an auto mainly separates number 12. yes we'll take out number 12 first
 which is the final plan number three of Newtown. We'll do that second, so we'll take all the others first. Any question on the other items? All the items under enrollment number 6B except for 12. 12 is the Newtown matter. We'll take that afterwards. So we'll take all the other matters first. Any questions on those? Very none. Alert. I'm sorry. Yeah, just we'll have a, take a roll call on those matters.
 I just want to make sure that the clerk has a chance to get that down. Want to make sure, Alderman Getsch, I've got your no down. Was your no for all of them? Yes. Okay. And Alderman Acmeyer, yours was just on which one, number 3 under? Item number 3 under item 11 or item 11 and item number 3. Okay. Thank you.
 I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry
 I'm sorry, 9, 10 and 13, 12 ayes, Your Honor. Item number 6 and 8, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 11, 3, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 11, 1, 2 and 4.
 11 ayes and 1 no. That is all passed. Thank you. I will come back to Roman numeral 6B-12, which has to do with final plan number 3 of the new town subdivision. Is there a discussion? Second. Then a motion second to lay that matter over. Mr. Hayes, I just want to make sure I've got that result automatically over. Is that accurate? Second.
 This is the first time the matter has been before the council by state law. The matter lays over. The matter lays over. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Further reports from committees? All in back. It looks like he stepped out for a moment. We'll let him out. Pardon me? Why don't we just wait a moment and see if he's... I move to table item C1 through 5, the Proceeded Officer's Reports.
 Yeah, we could, let me just check real quick. So we'll, there's no objection, we'll just move on to officers' reports and come back. Officers' reports? I'm just going to speak from here. So I just wanted to comment again and just say what a tragedy it was at the young mom who was killed at fairgrounds over the weekend.
 The activity that occurred apparently involved some shooting between rivals in the neighborhood and an innocent victim now leaves behind four children without their mother. So as we head into the
 days before Christmas and the holiday season, we just ask that all of us keep in mind all those victims, but especially that family traumatized by this latest tragedy in our community. And we just ask for additional support from throughout the community
 to help break the status quo that has resulted in these periods of violence and cycles of violence that seem to impact so many. And that if we don't interrupt those cycles of violence, there's no reason to expect that they will stop on their own. So I appreciate the work of our police department, all of our council and community partners as we continue to try to do our work to end these cycles of violence that have traumatized our community.
 And again, our thoughts and prayers go out to all the family impacted. And it's an especially important topic tonight as we look at the hiring of our next chief. I also just wanted to say I appreciate, again, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners being here to give us an update on the process of hiring the next chief. I also, I know I've said it before, but also after the activity, the flurry of activity,
 over the last week with the Department of Justice announcing that they will be involved in a full investigation of the entire operations of the Chicago Police Department. I think it's an incredible credit to our now-retired Chief Epperson and the work of our department that we have made incredible strides to repair a lot of
 the wounds that have been felt at times, the disconnect between our department and the community as it relates to use of force. And that we've incorporated many systems that will make our chief's position, I believe, attractive to a lot of candidates because they know they're starting from a strong position to be able to move this forward.
 community forward to continue to grow our efforts in maintaining those relationships. I would also be remiss however if I didn't say as much ground as we've recovered it would be easily lost if we don't hire a chief that is equally as committed as Chief Epperson was to take on the status quo and to take on the union when necessary and take on whatever needed to be taken on if it was going to result in the type of
 problems that we had in the past as it relates to use of force. I think the data tells a lot, but the data doesn't say just how hard it was in making many of those changes that now our systems, the systems that we have in place will help us to maintain.
 There is a meeting coming up and I just want to also recognize that I've been invited to I will do everything I can to be at the meeting and fairgrounds that their residence council will be hosting to discuss that tragedy and I'll say in advance what I plan on saying there which is we appreciate any cooperation that we can get from members of the community
 who may feel afraid about going on record to speak about what they may know about the shooters involved with that incident. But without that type of cooperation, it is hard to put cases together against the type of offenders that may be involved. So I'm going to say just tonight what I'd say then, which is we will be asking for our community to step forward and the members of the community have information about that shooting and others in our community. Please step forward and be...
 courageous and will do everything we can to protect and help support those that would be willing to testify and provide evidence and leads involving those involved in the shooting. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Yes, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. I have to acknowledge a gentleman that has worked for many years in this community that passed away, Willie Bell.
 which was president of the NAACP. Willie worked tireless through the community in elections and various campaigns and various programs and events in the community and he will be sorely missed as an individual that gave back to this community and my condolences to his wife and his family. Thank you. Thank you absolutely. All the
 Yes, just like to make another reminder on December 17th at 5.30, Keith Creek Neighborhood Association is going to be hosting their annual tree lighting at Churchill Park, and there will be a celebration afterwards at Redeemer Lutheran Church. A really great group of people. Just inviting everyone to please come on out, and thanking Public Works Department for all their great support of that event for the tree lighting. Thank you very much. Alden Newberg.
 thank you I I'd like to remind the 7th and 9th Ward that our December meeting is December 8th next up tomorrow at 6 o'clock at Good Shepherd and also remind that December 17th at St. Pete's at 530 if anyone has questions they will and
 ideas that they'd like to give to the fire and police commission that is their time for our area and I'd like I'd like the public to take advantage of this this is where the public gets to put in their two cents or four cents of what they feel is required in the new police chief thank you thank you all my beach couple things
 I'd like to remember public my good friend and Arnold who all this past week we had a memorial service for him at the heart of the church he was buried earlier we clear Texas
 I have what a wonderful friend but yet a supporter of this community and sudden death at 58 years of age it's gone from us but he's put the life of his legacy well what we're living on here but just wanted to mention again not to pick that get him and for the work in the and such a narrow Robert area the second thing is I had occasion to use the paramedics this past week
 And you can talk it really good, but when you need it and see it in action, it's really kind of remarkable, to be honest with you. And so to Chief Bergston and the department, I really appreciate the care and the follow through on that. And I would say it was a really bumpy ride. I thought it would be a real smooth ride, but it was not a smooth ride, but the tension was smooth. And all I say, but thank you very much to the fire department.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Further officer's reports? While we're at it, I appreciate Alderman Beach's reminder. I want to thank our paramedics as well from Station 4 who responded to a late night call that my parents made. My father took a fall back home and my mother had taken a fall about a year and a half ago, same home.
 And just like with her incident, they were outstanding professionals and provided great support. Fortunately, my dad took another fall on Sunday and is now out in the hospital. And so, Dad, I was told they have dish network and don't have cable. And if you're not – I got a text message, no kidding, just before the start of the meeting from my brother saying, my father is now – must be feeling better because he's ordering that he won't be able to watch the meeting.
 So, Dad, if you are watching, thanks for watching, as you always do, and Mom. And hopefully you'll be on a quick recovery, and our thoughts and prayers are with you too, Dad. So thanks. Further officer's reports? We'll go back then to finance and personnel in our committee reports to finish that up. I'll let them run back. Thank you, Your Honor. Rumble number six, under C1 through 5, I ask for suspension of rules on those items. There's been a motion. And is there a second? Second.
 Motion and second to suspend the rules on enrollment number 6C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have the rule to be suspended. I place them up for passage. Matters are for passage. Is there a discussion? Alderman Harvey. Question, I thought item 3 was held up. No, you're right. It is. Okay. Item number 3, it should not have. It is, yeah. I'll call them back. Go ahead. So I would move to lay number 3 over. I move.
 So in motion, second to lay Roman numeral 6C3 over. Again, pursuant to council rule, that'll automatically lay over. Correct. And then I place 1, 2, 4, and 5 up for passage. Thank you. Roman numeral 6C items 1, 2, 4, and 5 are then up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. No, I'm not. Irby. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Teller. Aye.
 11 on number 2 and the remainder is 12 ayes matters will pass thank you all the minutes up is Kelly your honor how long will item 3 be laid over until the next meeting
 I believe Mr. Hayes, correct me if I'm wrong, on our remainder, because I know we had adjusted our schedule for the remainder of the year for city council. What's our council schedule for the remainder of the year, if you have it offhand? City council will meet with its committees on the 14th. There will be a brief special city council meeting on the 14th to address a single item per the request of the community development department.
 That's in order to get a grant application on file in time. And then we'll have a regular city council meeting on December 21st. Last year when the city council passed the resolution for this year's city council schedule, they scheduled no meeting for the week of December 28th.
 So on the first week of next year, we will have both committees and council on the same evening to get back in cycle. Thank you. Just to repeat that, we will have committees next week with one item specially set for council vote next week. The 21st will be our regular council meeting and that would be the last meeting of the year.
 All the time, Skelly. I would definitely request that the chairmen of the committees and the department be very mindful that we're going to have committee meetings and the council meetings on one night. Bring your sleeping bags here. Be considerate of the agenda. For next week.
 first for January okay I see for the January meeting you're talking about I also seeing that we're going to have a this is just a question we're going to have a special city council meeting for a grant for community development why was it that on this agenda we know about it
 why did you have to have a special meeting for that I'm just saying is mister take no the other you want to get I believe that the decision was made because the materials were not available for the last time the city council met in committees that was back in November
 on the 23rd of November we met in committees the materials just simply weren't available and ready for presentation at that time the next committee council committee meeting was the 14th and so the idea was to have the committee process take up a full discussion and then at the end of that get council approval to make the application for the grant
 We felt that that would be in the regular cycle, not disrupting a council meeting for committee action and getting the matter cycled through for city council approval. So in other words, next week when we do committee work, this matter would be discussing committee and if it moves forward on a committee, then it would be able to be approved.
 If it's on the agenda, it could be taken up that night as a council meeting. Yes, Your Honor. So what we'd have to do is make sure that it is first covered as a committee. So next week we would do the committees first. Then after we get done with the committee vote on that item, it could be taken up as a council matter and be disposed of that evening. But next week would be the first time we would have been able to have discussed that as a committee item, I think is what Mr. Hayes is saying. Thank you.
 that was approved by the committee chair pardon me and that was approved by the committee chair that is not yet been I don't know what Mr. Cagnotti I know you've been monitoring this item and I'm not even sure what it is again if you want to bring it up I have not spoke to the committee chair in regards to it it is being read in this evening so it will be at the desire of the council if they want to proceed forward with the council it was read in tonight that is correct which item is it
 It is a grant request to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for a cleanup grant. The round that is for December. Thank you for the discussion. So I just want to make sure I'm, let's see, okay, I think, did we vote on that? I just want to make sure I got my votes in. Do we still have to vote on that last item, the maintenance of personnel items? That was all resolved. All right, thank you. So now let's move on to...
 And finish business. All in back. Are we looking at Roman numeral 8? This is Roman numeral. Hold on. This item I've been asked by staff to continue to hold out. Roman numeral 8C1. It's going to be held out. It's going to be held out? Yep. Thank you, Matt. It will be held out. Roman numeral 9. I don't see any items under P&D, all the Matrelli codes and regulations. Thank you, your honor.
 Number 9, unfinished business ordinance is laid over. Number 2A, an ordinance approving the local landmark designation for Booker Washington Center located at 524 10th Street, 1005 South Court Street under Section 113, historical preservation, Article 2.
 Item number B, I'm moving to room number nine, a little later in the evening, Your Honor. Place item 2A up for passage. I'm sorry, what did you say about B? B, I am moving to room number nine. Where on nine? Oh, I'm sorry, 11. Okay. So I want to make sure I understand that Mr. Hayes, do you understand what all the Montreal is doing there? Yes.
 The item needs to be read and rules suspended. It's not actually in the correct spot on the agenda. So that will come up under Roman numeral 11, new business? Yes, sir. All right, thanks. So the only item then would be...
 that you best have voted on the phone number 9 to thank you better than is up for passage is unfinished business is their discussion this is the landmark designation for both Washington Center all the men heard think your honor Washington is in the fifth ward I practically grew up there I know some people have concerns about landmark status and you
 because some of the original building was destroyed. I would point out that a part of that original building is still incorporated and still visible, but it is the land itself. It is the place of Booker Washington Center that we would like to have designated for landmark status.
 It has played a huge and pivotal role in the Fifth Ward throughout these years. My concern, which was alleviated, was that it would not impose any financial burden or any redevelopment burden. And I think there's been a little confusion about that. It's not the same as historic preservation where, you know, you can't make certain changes to the site. With regard to Booker, they can upgrade the buildings.
 because of that and rebuild on the site without losing that status or interfering with that status. So I would ask for people to support it, regardless of whether they believe it should have an original building or something of that sort. Booker very much was a spirit. It was everything from the black soldiers at Camp Grant
 Rockford Sportsman Golf Association, I think it's the longest freestanding African American golf tournament, actually had its genesis in the social club, the Colored Soldiers Social Club at Booker.
 It just has a very deep and rich part of the history of the community, not just Southwest Rockford and I would ask that council members support the landmark status for that area of the city. Thank you. Thank you. Has it already laid over? I'll call the time to Kelly. Did you want to make a comment too?
 I thought you had your hand up too. I just want to add on to what all of them said. I am definitely a product of Booker Washington Center. But also I want to thank the committee and for approving the landmark status as well as my colleagues that have shown support for Booker. Greatly appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion on the item.
 Hearing none, all those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it, thank you. Thank you. Call them back. Thank you your honor. Under Roman numeral 9-3, item A is laid over as it's connected to the previous item that was held out. And I'm placing B and C at the passage and I will pass suspension of rules on those.
 I'm sorry, I don't believe we need a suspension. We're just placing them up for passage. I lost you there for a minute. Do you want all A, B, and C? No, A is held off because they're attached to the other item. All right, got it. So it's just rule number 93B and C? Yep. Those matters are up for passage. Mr. Hayes. Your Honor, thank you. Item B.
 The ordinance approving the sale of real property at Quaker Road to N-Track is an item that requires the unanimous vote of all aldermen present. It requires 12 votes to approve the sale of property. Thank you. Thank you very much. That requires 12 votes and that's certainly. The site of the old, when I was a kid it was the old municipal dump. Yes. I believe.
 It was an absolute nightmare when we were growing up. Rats the size of small dogs routinely harm children. I had cousins that lived over there that would be bitten by the rats over near Magnolia and in that area. It was notorious. We had done a yeoman's job, I think, of cleaning up the site.
 I believe there may be some more clean up to be done I believe now they're looking at some better ways to harness methane gas or other things that may come up 50 years later from some of these dumps but having in track there I had a little problem with it at first but I mean when you really start to look at the industrial nature of the area and the
 I think it has some huge potential and they have been I think I'm happy to have the company were they in Lewis Park or were they here in Rockford I can't remember but I'm happy to have them come in.
 something they can't coach down to I 39 just sorry I had to do that so getting a new company and it's going to be great I would ask for support to move it forward because this is what we need to do to redevelop some of our true brownfields and I think that don't is probably around field against thank you mr. can go did you want to chime in I think you've added on that less park issue
 Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, they do have a, they are from Love's Park, and not that they're closing their Love's Park business, but, you know, this will allow an opportunity for them to expand in the city of Rockford. We do quite a bit of work with them as it relates to our demolition program. I know they bid on quite a few projects through the Public Works Department as well. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hayes, did you have anything to add? No.
 there'll be an institutional control on the property to address the reality that beneath the surface is you know municipal waste from many decades ago and there is a comprehensive plan for leveling and addressing the site otherwise so they they have met the terms and conditions that we worked out with them in the proposal this was a method where we
 found their interest put this together put it out for alternative bids and NTRK came in with a package that we believe is an appropriate ground field use of the property thank you for your support thank you Alderman Helli what is their proposed use of the property good question proposed use Mr Hayes they're predominantly going to be a composites a concrete batch plant there working with aggregate composites so there will be new construction of a plant
 Anything that's going to be on that site is largely going to be temporary because the institutional control won't allow any foundational work. They are well aware of the environmental nature of what the property is. This is true brownfields where you find a use that works and this will work. They're going to use the surface for their material storage and they're going to have a plant that doesn't require substantial foundation.
 So I just want to make sure, will they be coming back for building permits on this site, Mr. Kegnog? Thank you, Your Honor. They, you know, the
 The proposal and the RFP requires conformance with our zoning ordinance processes, so they'll be coming forward for a special use permit to address the overall specific plan for the development of the site. We have had preliminary conversations with them and they have provided some preliminary information related to berming around the site with landscaping to screen from Harrison Avenue. We'll have the opportunity to fully vet that out when they come through the process.
 I would anticipate potentially January, ZVA, possibly February.
 I can't recall, do we have a price on this? Has there been an agreement on price and the transition or just repeating it to them? I believe it was $1.00, is that correct, Director Hayes? As well as some terms and conditions within the proposal. And again, just correct me if I'm wrong, the immediate improvement will be that it'll go from a non-taxpaying entity, us, to a taxpaying entity, NTRK.
 They're going to build at least the proposal at this point, just so everybody knows what they're voting on will be for a concrete mass plant.
 That is correct, Your Honor. And so I just want to make sure the Alderman of the ward is supportive of it, what I think she already indicated. I believe it's actually in Alderman Elliott's ward now, but I can't remember where she ends and where I pick up. That's an area. All right. So if there's questions about it, even though this is just a disposition of property, it's with the anticipation that they would be coming back with a special use permit for concrete batch plant and have to bring back the property.
 their plan to be in accordance with our zoning regulations at that time. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Murphy? Aye. Getches? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. McConnell? Aye. Thompson-Culley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Alder? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott?
 12 ayes thank you matters pass motions and resolutions um numeral 10 B Alderman Shirely
 The first item we have is committee recommends approval of Melfast subject to conditions. Number two is a committee recommends approval of a resolution presented by Alderman Thomas McNamara regarding information for committees and council and the posting of agenda items. We place those two committee recommendations up for approval.
 Thank you. Under Roman numeral 10B, items 1 and 2 are for passage. This has to do with the Melfast as well as the resolution of Alderman McNamara regarding information for communities of council. For discussion, Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you, Mayor. I move to amend the resolution under motions and resolutions from the numeral number 10, item B2 to include exceptions to posting of the agenda items by noon on Thursdays. Exceptions consist of agendas prepared during short work weeks due to holidays. Items referred to committees and council from the Board of Appeals and Liquor and Tobacco
 as well as about your final many of these concerns that were brought up that the committee meeting and I thought there were good concern that's why I place these on items up for passage thank you there's been a motion and second to amend this resolution
 and resolutions which is Roman numeral 10 B2 to include exceptions to the posting agenda items by noon on Thursdays the exceptions consist of agendas prepared during short work weeks due to a holiday items referred to committee council from the zoning board of appeals and liquor and tobacco advisory board and vouchers it's been moved and seconded is there any discussion on that proposed amendment
 Hearing none all those in favor of that amendment please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. So that amended item was then placed up for passage ever soon? Placed up for passage ever soon. So again the amended 10b2 is up for passage as well as 10b1 any discussion? Any further discussion? Hearing none please call the roll. Berkey? Aye. Gatches? Aye. McNamara? Aye.
 thank you thank you I am place see items one through seven up for paper yeah thank you for passage from the world 10 C
 Um, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 are all up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durfee. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Purvey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Oh, sorry. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. I'm sorry. Chiarelli. Aye.
 12 I'm going to pass thank you to business Roman numeral 11 home and get your solution motion resolution certainly your honor I have a I'm sorry just wanna make sure captain there was a resolution regarding which I'm balancing 2016 budget number four inch the finest personal thank you that'll be added to next week's agenda yes thank you very much
 So then we'll move on to new business for Roman Doomer 11. A, planning and development, all around Durkee.
 thank you there's three items up for passage I would ask for a little suspension the first item is the committee recommends approval of the license agreement between Zion Development Corporation city of Rockford for the use of the residents at 312 Irving Avenue as a community resource center second item is the committee recommends the approval of a license agreement between Zion Development Corporation for the use of a resident at
 908 8th Avenue as a community resource center. And finally, the committee recommends the approval of a proposed deed in lieu of foreclosure between Valencia Developers LLC and the City of Rockford for the property at 500-518 Fisher Avenue. I'd like to suspend rules on those items. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and second. Spend the rules on Roman numeral
 11 a.m. is one two three all the favor please say aye aye Those no I just have it. Thank you your honor that I'd like to place those up for passage That is our for passages their discussion all maneuver. Thank you and the proposed deed in lieu of foreclosure between Valencia developers in the city of Rockford at this point I
 If we foreclose if it if we let it go into foreclosure rather than taking it to the property, what's the next step? So we have placed the developer on notice that they're in default because they haven't developed out the building and they have said We don't have any means or intention to complete that so we could bring a lawsuit for foreclosure for their default in our sold benefit out of that would be to receive the property and
 or we can accept the deed in lieu of foreclosure. The third option would be to walk away from the property and their obligations on the development agreement. So we're the only ones, just to make the point, Mr. Hayes, that are in a position to actually foreclose. So it's either we get the deed or we actually go through the foreclosure process because we're the only remaining lien holder, it sounds like. Yes, Your Honor. The city is the sole lien holder on the property at this point. Alderman Newberg. Okay, so...
 Really, the only thing is it's just sort of like a legal deedal thing of we're saving money by taking the property, by taking the deed rather than foreclosure and going to court. Right, we won't have to pay for the...
 various elements foreclosure to publish and things like that there won't be a delay in us getting title properties so to the extent our marketing will take place will be able to immediately market rather than wait the nine months or so it takes to get through a foreclosure process or whatever I'll be wishing for that my stocking is okay well
 I wanted to clarify, so the bank just what, just washed their hands? They just The debtors, the bank required the debtors to sign a personal guarantee. The debtors bought that back from the bank and resolved the bank debt. Okay, and I guess then going forward, if somebody is willing to sign a personal guarantee with the bank, then they are darn well going to sign one with us.
 I just I don't I'm not it's not a criticism of how the deal was put together but I think
 some of our tips and the way that we operate and I know sometimes when we're trying to get these deals together we don't require a personal guarantee but that's what was throwing me off that's why I voted no it was well the bank would be left holding it so let the bank come in and take care of some of the clean up and the care of the property if they're talking about foreclosing but it just seems ridiculous to me that they would pay off the
 And we can't get a personal guarantee. I think we're going to have to change the way we operate in these deals. If they're not willing to give us a personal guarantee, then we're not doing it if they're going to give one to the bank.
 I would also indicate that we have learned that lesson from staff on what does it take to make a project secure and we are applying those going forward but we haven't seen much in the way of residential development.
 So the issue of incentives and those terms and conditions on incentives become a difficult issue to negotiate sometimes and get a deal done. But I agree, we need to have better security in our agreements and we've certainly learned that lesson. Yeah, I'm just saying, we're giving them money. Yeah, the bank is loaning it to them too. They're in no worse position with us than they are with the bank. So if you're going to give a personal guarantee to the bank, then you have to give one to us. If we're asking you to take a huge risk, um, you're not going to give us a guarantee.
 That's a little different but in this case I just don't think that was the case that we're left holding the bag and the bank got their money back. That's not fair to taxpayers. Other discussion? So again up for passage is Roman number 11 A items 1, 2, and 3. If there's no further discussion and it's the clerk please call the roll.
 Hedges Yes McNamara Aye Hervey Aye Connell Aye Thompson-Cullin Aye Odom Newberg Aye Beach Elliott Beck Aye Chiarelli Aye It's called I-Giorelli That is passed, thank you Aye
 numeral 11b1 of b plus b call the trellis thank you your honor i'm going to go back to that item 9b i'm going to read that in first sure 9b stated committee recommends adoption of the 2015 international residential code with amendments thereto has set forth the attachments to the committee report the amendments reflect the modification of section r 313.1
 to include that section is repealed on February 2nd 2016 unless further action of the City Council was taken this ordinance was inadvertently left off the November 2nd 2015 agenda but the committee report was approved on November 2nd 2015.
 under new business business so your honor I want to put all those items 12 now I just read it suspend the rules so just wanna make sure I've got this so under Roman numeral 11 the the agenda items 11 B 1 through
 11 you're moving for suspension of rules as well as the other item that you read in from that had been agenda in the wrong location is under Roman numeral 9 to be all those items
 which I'll refer to 92 being hours number 12 all those items you're moving force bench the rules is there been a second but it was removed in second all those in favor spend the world's policing if I was saying I was no I said the rules be suspended for all my hands up their discussion on the items discussion on those items very none clerk please call
 Murphy Gatches McNamara Kirby Battle Thompson-Calley Odo Newberg Beach Elliott Beck Farrell No one numbered 12, I am the rest.
 12 is the item that had been appeared under 9 Roman rule 9b, 9 2b he's referring to as 12 now. Your Honor on the residential code 11 ayes 1 nay on items 6 and 8, 10 ayes 2 noes on the remaining items 12 ayes. That is all passed thank you.
 the international residential code that's not the regional that's not the regional code that we were talking about a few weeks ago I guess yes it is from the regional to the
 never was titled the regional code the whole package and process you might recall there were I think nearly a dozen different international codes that were adopted in that set of regional code the regional code method this was the one that was amended because it had the requirement for account homes to be sprinklered and so that that provision was adopted
 but it is automatically repealed if the city council does nothing on February 1st and so what we're hopeful is that our regional partners in sufficient numbers will adopt the
 the code as was adopted by the city council that will present that information to the city council at that meeting on February 1st and hopefully be able to report that enough regional partners have adopted where the city council would then take action to repeal the repealer so what we did is we put it out there so that the council could leave
 but also have an out clause without any further action by council if our regional partners didn't adopt. Okay. I was absent for one of the meetings. That was the piece I missed and I just wanted to make sure that provision, I withdraw my request to change the vote. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. I'll be back. Thank you. Under C, items 1 and 3, I ask for suspension of rules. Roman numeral 11, C, 1, 2, and 3. 1 and 3. 1 and 3. Okay.
 Yeah, I'm sorry. That was number two was held out earlier or laid over, rather. 11C1 and 3, there's been a motion and a second. Submit the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes to have it. The rule is to be suspended. Place them up for passage. That is up for passage. It's their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Fervey. Aye. Connell.
 Aldo, Huber, Beach, Elnay, Beck. Aye. Sherrod. It's called aye, Sherrod. The matter is passed. I see no further business before the council. Motion. There's been a motion and a second to adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.