Updates to everyone now 1 is. Before we begin and call a meeting order, actually, let's do that. We'll do it now. Make updates here shortly. So, 1st, I'd like to call the meeting to order for the city of rock first regularly scheduled Monday, December 7th, 2020. City council meeting, we have an invitation that's been provided.
 to me by the Baha'i faith, and I will read it. Thank you for inviting the Baha'i community to give tonight's invocation. We offer a prayer of humanity from the Baha'i right now.
 O thou kind Lord, thou hast created all humanity from the same stock. Thou hast decreed that all belong to the same household. O God, we are weak, give us strength. We are poor, but so upon us thine illimitable treasures. We are sick, grant us thy divine healing. We are powerless, give us thy heavenly power. O Lord, make us useful in this world. Free us from the condition of self and desire.
 Oh Lord, make us firm in thy love and cause us to be loving toward the whole of mankind. Confirm us in service to the world of humanity so that we may become servants of thy servants.
 so that we may become servants, that we may love all thy creatures and become compassionate to all thy people. Oh Lord, thou art the Almighty, thou art the Merciful, thou art the Forgiver, thou art the Omnipotent. That was from the Baha'i faith. Next we will do the Pledge of Allegiance, so you can unmute yourself if you choose to
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Oh, nine, ten months into this pandemic, we're starting to get in sync on that pledge of allegiance. With that, Chaz, could you please provide us a roll call? Sure. Alderman Durkee. Okay.
 HOLDERMAN LOGEMAN. LOGEMAN IS HERE. TOOMBERG. I THINK WE HAVE HOLDERMAN TOOMBERG. HOLDERMAN FROST. HERE. HERVEY. IRVINS. HERE. THOMPSON-KELLEY. HOFFMAN. HERE. ROSE. HERE. HOLDERMAN. HERE. HOLDERMAN. HERE. HOLDERMAN.
 Alderman Beach? Here. Do you know anyone else? Hanley? Here. Alderman McNeely? Here. Ten aldermen present. Thank you. Should we have a quorum this evening? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next, I ask if there's a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on November 16th, 2020. So moved. Second. We have a motion by Alderman Beach, a second by Alderman Hoffman. Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logan in. Aye. Toonberg? Aye.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 10 press or 10 ice thank you is there a motion uh to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on november 23rd 2020. thank you we have a motion by alderman beach the second by alderman hoffman is there any discussion saying no discussion clerk could you please call the roll logan aye toonberg fraud all right
 Irvin? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNerney? Aye. McKinney? Aye. Excellent. So, this item is passed. We have no proclamations. Before I get to the information item only, I want to make a couple of comments.
 uh notifications uh first uh obviously this is alderman corelli was sworn in uh as an alderman this morning and then now he is our current winnebago county chairman so we all congratulate him and with his absence uh we needed an alderman to step up to be the co-regulation chair and alderman beach who has previously the vice chair has stepped up into that role so thank you alderman beach
 Secondly, we needed an alderman to fill Alderman Chiarelli's spot on codes and rights. And Alderman Kevin Frost has been kind enough to step up into that role. So thank you, Alderman Frost. And all of you will receive either later tonight or first thing in the morning an updated list of committees and members of each of those committees. Secondly, this evening you may recognize a new name
 on our virtual city council meeting. And that new name is Mr. Todd Hughes.
 I am really excited to have Todd Hughes joining the City of Rockford team as our new IT director. Todd Hughes will be taking over for Glen Puddles and I know everyone on this call has such admiration for the work that Glen's done since he's been here, but specifically what he's done in the last two years.
 Even more specifically, the work that him and his team have done throughout 2020 to get us through this pandemic as well, telecommuting and using virtual platforms like this.
 But we are very fortunate in my opinion to have Todd Hughes. He was the manager of IT integration at Winnebago County. He also worked at Winnebago County for 14 years. He comes with great experience. He's been highly recommended by both public and private sector individuals. And he also, we're fortunate that he has,
 Already built some relationships with our staff members here. And so I think there will be a seamless transition. Glenn has been kind enough. Uh, Glenn travels has been kind of stay on for a couple of weeks to make sure that this integrates.
 of our own department goes smoothly. So a big thank you for all the work that Glenn's provided, and we'll all be able to say our thanks to him in the weeks to come, but also a hearty welcome and thank you for joining our team, Mr. Todd Hughes.
 As I mentioned, we have no proclamations, so we're going to go right into information only. Obviously, tonight on the information only, you have the Marathon six-year review. This evening, you're going to hear primarily, but not only, primarily from Lauren May, who is the account manager for Marathon, and I believe she's been our account manager now for three or four years.
 Also, you will hear from Ryan Broms, who's been our employee benefits consultant, and he's with Rockford Brokerage Consulting. I just want to make a couple of brief statements and say,
 A big thank you to our HR team, Marathon, as well as Ryan. I think if you would go back prior to me being mayor, we really made some changes as a city to not just be paying claims, but to be improving the health of the city.
 outcomes of our employees, and that's a big credit to the work that Rockford Brokerage has done in driving us to make those changes as a city, and to many of the council members who are here that have supported those changes.
 I think one thing that has been highlighted, and we'll be fortunate to have Ryan and his expertise, Therese Hunter and her expertise in 2021, is what's been highlighted is through the COVID-19 global pandemic, there's been a whole host of disparities that have been brought to light throughout our country and in our community. And one of those disparities is around health care.
 And this year, Sharif Hunter was one of the co-chairs for the Rockford Rebounding Healthcare Committee, which Wayne was also an integral part of. And I think it really sets us up as a city organization to lead our city
 forward and how we look at health care for all of our citizens uh with us as the leaders uh driving uh some much needed initiatives so sorry to be so long-winded but uh we really are fortunate to have lauren and brian with us so with that uh i'll just turn it over to lauren and ryan uh unless charisse did you want to add anything that i may have missed
 No, I think you covered everything. Thank you. All right. And thank you to Charisse and Kim and our entire human resources team for getting us to this point of the presentation tonight. So with that, Mr. Barnes or Lauren, I'll hand it over to you.
 I'll kick us off, Mayor. Thank you for those remarks. And I really want to thank you for your leadership and focus on things like education and mental health and, of course, domestic violence and the social determinants of health. I look forward to working with you, actually, on these really critical community health issues as we go forward into 2021.
 Tonight, the council again really puts on its hat as the operator of a small insurance company. We have a partially self-funded health plan, which really, for all intents and purposes, makes us like a small insurance company. And tonight, we're going to review some of that performance data. Recall that everything we do with the health plan rests on the triple aim of employee satisfaction, improved outcomes, and reduced costs.
 And the mayor recognized Director Hunter, and I want to say also that you have a really good HR department, and that's not just lip service because none of this really would be possible if we didn't have a really solid, well-running HR department, and so kudos to Director Hunter and Deputy Director Ryan. So the clinic has saved the health plan money, to be sure, but probably I think most importantly are the lives affected by
 with the many stories of conditions that we've prevented or the clinic has discovered or even reversed. And recall that this model is a little different than what you see in a walk-in clinic or a typical urgent care clinic because it really focuses on patients
 on time with the patient, on time to find root causes of conditions, and the emphasis really on education, coaching, and lifestyle. And I think that fits actually with what the mayor said about COVID-19, because if you're following any of the news on that,
 For the people that seem to have the worst outcomes from from this virus usually have some comorbidity and it's usually around obesity and diabetes and some of these things that we can actually address with our health plan. So, I appreciate your support in that and not to take any more time away from Lauren. So, Lauren, I'll let you introduce yourself and go forward from there. But again, thank you very much. City Council to the mayor.
 Hi, everyone. Again, I'm Lauren May. I'm the account manager for the City of Rockland Center. Can you all see my screen? Okay, great. So, really quickly, by just talking about our model of care, which, you know, Ryan and Lizzie do as well as the mayor. So, really, what we're looking at is population health management. And what that means is we identify the risk in the population through claims data, health risk assessments, biometric screenings, and then we look to, you know, what are the risks
 mitigate that risk. We inspire new health behaviors with our patients through conferences about the news and health coaching and then we help empower them to make smart health decisions and that in turn leads to improved health and savings not only for the patient but also for the city of Rockford.
 So, year 6 highlights. So year 6 spans from September 2019 to October 2020. So engagement, we had 77% engagement, employee engagement in year 6. That's 762 unique employees coming to the center over the year. It's a 13% increase over last year. We had 34 more programs, events and challenges over the year to inspire people to interact with us.
 We achieved 12 out of 12 high risk and chronic health improvement targets over the years. Our patient satisfaction this year came in at 93%, surpassing 90% five years running. And our cost savings, our actual claims paid were 23 million below projection over the past six years for an
 for an aggregate ROI of 4.1. And employees that had one or more coaching visits with us over the year, their per-member per-year claims was around $3,500 less than those who did not engage. So this is our lovely team. On the left here is Anthony Secora. He's our family nurse practitioner. We have Marisol up front here and Rose and Carly. They're our medical assistants. And then this is Dr. Dave Fulcher.
 So I wanted to start off talking a little bit about COVID and current state services. So obviously COVID has changed the healthcare landscape quite a bit, but I wanted to make sure everybody was aware that we are offering in-center services. So people are able to come in for labs, medical appointments, coaching, and occupational health services. Obviously we do a COVID triage appointment before a COVID triage.
 people come in to make sure that everyone's healthy and safe who comes in. But we are offering all those services. We, in March, launched the option of telephonic and video care as an option for those individuals who weren't able to come into the center. So we have ongoing, we're offering that as an opportunity for patients.
 We are doing COVID triage appointments so if somebody has any COVID symptoms they are able to call and talk to one of our providers about those symptoms and we can help them with medical management and return to work guidance. We will be offering COVID testing in the near future at the center both PCR testing and rapid point of care testing options.
 One of the big things I think that we need to make sure we talk about was during, you know, when COVID hit in March, from March to May, we really made a big effort to reach out to employees and their families. So we contacted over 700 people within that time period and just called.
 them to ask them how they were doing. Really we wanted to provide well-being checks that we made sure that the city of Rockford employees and their families were doing okay, especially those that could be potentially high risk and by themselves. So there's two quotes on the screen and one on the right really refers to one of our providers who reached out to an individual.
 you know, who was a high risk person and afraid to come into this center. So they talked about her experience being high risk and what that meant and, you know, walk her through how she's feeling and coping. And through that conversation, they started to have health coaching appointments with Anthony to kind of further explore those things. So that happens quite a bit through these conversations. And I think it was a real help for both patient and provider.
 So our volume. So this slide here looks at our volume from year one all the way to year six. So the orange is coaching, the yellow is acute care, and the gray is labs. Year six is over here. So you can see COVID right here, mid-March hit, and like was felt all over different aspects of healthcare. COVID definitely affected our engagement as well.
 37% decrease in our acute care, but that was offset by a bump in our coaching. So we did have 17% increase in coaching and a 12% increase in labs. And one of the big things that drove that this year is that we took on the Path to Wellness biometric incentive. And so you can kind of see that here right in the later part of the year where we had a lot of labs.
 And from that, we had a lot of conversations with patients who wanted to talk about their results. So that's where we got this nice big increase in coaching. And this is a really important piece because coaching is really where we move the needle. When we have those proactive conversations about people's health, that's where we can start to see real health change. So here's our engagement. Engagement is different from volume. Engagement is looking at actually the people
 who are interacting with us, whereas volume is looking at services. So engagement looks at any members who've had at least one coaching or acute visit in the past 18 months with our provider. So you can see here, this is employees. We're looking at years two through six.
 So you can see there was a big jump in our coaching engagement, and that was really based upon that path to wellness incentive. So we bumped up about 13% specifically in coaching. Our engagement with acute stayed pretty static. We are above our book of business, that's this little purple line here. We're both acute and coaching, well above it. But we do have a little bit of room for growth with employees for coaching specifically.
 When we look at spouses, we did have a decrease in both coaching and acute for spouses, and we were pretty on par for children. We are above our benchmark for coaching for children, which is great. We do see a lot of coaching conversations come out of our sport and school physicals, as you can see, but we have a little bit of room for growth in these two areas here. So screening and risk identification.
 Training and risk-aided education is really important because it basically gives us the foundation to understand what's going on in the population, to figure out what those high-risk items are, as well as to be able to outreach to those individuals to help inspire health change. Really wonderful screening percentages with our employees at the City of Rockford, and this is really inspired by both the AFSCME and the Path to Wellness Incentive.
 We have 93% over year 6. As well above our book of business benchmark, we're a little bit below our book of business benchmark and we do feel that along with engagement. The past the wellness incentive was extended to spouses. We would see a lot more screening information and engagement from that section.
 So risk prevalence in chronic conditions. So now that we have all this data, how do we use it? So what we do is we look to understand what the percent high risk of a certain biometric risk factor chronic condition or lifestyle risk factor is in the population.
 So we have our sample size, which is the information that we either get from screening information, from claims or what we find in our centers, or from our health risk assessment. And we look to understand how many of those sample size actually has that risk factor or chronic condition. And that provides us with a percent high risk.
 And then we look at that percent high risk in comparison to what our benchmark is. And when we're looking at our benchmark, we're looking across our book of business, about 187 different customers and about 730,000 lives.
 so we say all right within our book of business obesity bmi for high-risk factors about 39 where city of russell's landing with the information that we have from screening we see you coming in at 37 so there's a big differential there so what we want to do is take that information and build it into our programming and have those conversations when people come in
 And so we would do the same when it comes to blood pressure, cholesterol, metabolic syndrome, poor sleep is a big differential, tobacco use, alcohol. So all of those things we full wrote into our programming.
 So speaking of center promotions, we do quite a bit. So really our center promotions and engagement strategies really do inform and inspire, right? We wanna get people interacting with the center and getting to know our providers and establishing relationships. We work really hard with the city of Rockford to get the word out through multiple channels. We email, we use both Marathon Health and city of Rockford to email separately. We have webinars.
 and videos, you see a little video here. Here's Anthony, he did a mental health video. We also did a couple of center videos this year
 flyers, magnets, stickers, anything that we can kind of get out there. Postcards to homes, that's a big deal for, you know, people, spouses and potentially dependents to make sure that they understand that center services are available to them as well. And then of course word of mouth is everything, right? We want to make sure those who have a good experience let others know. So we do have a number of different tactics. We have health challenges,
 which were really well attended this year especially from a virtual standpoint people couldn't congregate together they're still able to do health challenges which was nice we have lunch and learn which we also turned virtual this year and paired with some of the challenges we had a sleep lunch and learn that we pushed right into a sleep challenge so we the COR the core incentives so the packs of wellness and ACSI
 is a really big deal. Prizes and giveaways, we have Marathon Health sponsored prizes and giveaways as well as city sponsors. And then we collaborate with the city on sponsored events. So we did the wellness fair, we've done chili cook-offs, we've done battle for the badges. Any opportunity that we have to coordinate with the city on a health sponsored event, we definitely do so. And then obviously onsite pop-up events and meet and greets us.
 especially in this COVID age. So here's some of the events that we did over the years. Those in orange designate programs that were able to be delivered virtually. So that's always a focus for us. We really want to make sure that we meet people where they are and where they can meet us.
 So, here's the outcomes so physically throughout the year providers run a report that looks just like this. And what we're looking at here is we really want to understand.
 has had progress for those patients that are in these high risk and chronic condition categories. We want to make sure we understand how much we are moving the needle with these individuals. So we pull this report and we look at how many we've had made progress or gone to the normal range based on these high risk categories.
 And, you know, we understand how many that is from the total population. So we can actually reach out to these individuals specifically with our providers and say, hey, you know, let's talk about standard of care. And what do we need to get you to be at that standard of care? So that's something that we can do and something that we target. And so this year we made 12 out of 12. Thank you.
 So this purple line right here is the projected inflation of claims based on a two-year look-back window. So the projection is based off of PricewaterhouseCoopers from a concept or benchmark, and it's a 6.5% increase.
 projected inflation. This line here, this yellow line is your actual monthly claims. So this is the claims that are coming in. These are both medical and prescription. So what we want to see is we want to see your claims below that projection, right? So the differential between projections and your actual claims for year six,
 Is considered the annual savings. So we're looking here. Here's your 6. here's the projection and here's your plan. So, if we take the difference between those 2 lines, the annual savings is calculated to be about 5.5M dollars. And then if we take that, and we compare it against the cost of services, the is 6.12.
 In total over the six years, the projected annual savings is 23 million and ROI is 4.29. So we want to take a look a little bit closer, right? Those are claims in aggregate. Those are like all of the claims information. So what does it look like if we're just going to take a section of that and look at those who have used the center
 the center for coaching versus those who haven't. So this is really important, as I said before, you know, coaching is where we really have those deep conversations with individuals and we're able to kind of move the needle from a health outcome standpoint. And it's also really great, in fact, where we saw growth this year from our engagement and from our volume. So if we take a look at those individuals with zero visits, zero coaching visits, their claims.
 an average per member per year costs are $9,943. If we take a look at the segment of the population who has had one or more coaching visits, their average annual claims are $6,271. So there's a differential there of $3,662 from those who have not engaged in a coaching perspective versus those who have had one or more visits.
 So that's really what we want to see is that differential there. That means that that coaching is really helping people understand, you know, how to improve their health outcomes.
 So here's some really wonderful patient feedback. Again, we had 93% satisfied or very satisfied with the center. We do two surveys, that's the annual survey. The second survey that we do is a patient experience survey that everybody gets after they have a visit with us. That survey we had 97% satisfaction over the year. We do, if we do have a dissatisfied,
 that individual, if they give us permission to reach out to them, we are able to reach out and have a conversation on what happened. And for us, that information is extremely important because we love the satisfied, right? But we also want to make sure that we do everything that we can to have a good patient experience and that feedback from somebody who hasn't had the best experience, we want to make sure we improve what we can do so that doesn't happen next.
 So looking ahead at 2021 and beyond.
 So first off, obviously COVID is not necessarily going away in the near term as much as we all love it to. So we will continue to support with COVID management. So that means both obviously offering COVID treatment like we do today, but also having the opportunity to test at the center, but have conversations with the vaccine, right? So that is an ongoing conversation that we're looking at now as well.
 So we're excited to say we're going to get a new patient portal. The ease of use is going to be much improved. We're very excited for how nice and simple the UI is. We'll have updated reporting and outreach capabilities, and then, of course, we'll have an ease of use for clinicians. We want them spending time with our patients, not trying to figure out, you know, EMR technology. So we're excited for that to happen.
 We are going to explore opportunities for supplemental services. So when we're looking at claims costs, some of the buckets that are the biggest must be the skeletal enhancers.
 And we do want to take a look at those in terms of how we can get in front of that stuff. So taking a look at preventative wellness services. So is there an opportunity for us to get a mammography bus on site? Can we do skin cancer screenings? Is there anything we can do to have a colonoscopy alert? Is there anything we can do from a cancer perspective to get the word out to do preventative screenings? Physical therapy, too. We can kind of put together some.
 you know, ergonomic type of conversations or some other programming to get in front of some of this musculoskeletal. Increased coaching engagement. So, again, coaching is where we see the most health improvement and thanks to the Bucks. So we really want to see what we can do to inspire people to coach with us.
 So we want to communicate the importance and benefit of that particular type of engagement and weave that into the path to wellness incentive. Right now we do biometrics as a point, but we don't have a coaching visit at this point for the incentive. So that could be a really nice game and then also extend that out to spouses.
 And then this is engagement with corporate risk factors and cost drivers. So obesity, blood pressure, sleep. Smoking alcohol, cancer muscle cells. So how can we get in front of these things and build that into our 2021 plan? Think that about does it for me? Is there any questions that I can help?
 Thank you, Lauren. Alderman, if you have any questions, since the hand-raising feature is yet to be fixed with WebEx, if you simply want to unmute yourself and ask that question, now would be a good time.
 Lauren, I would say that sounds like you got off far easier this evening than you did earlier today. So I would just say a huge thank you to you, to the Marathon team, the team over at the Wellness Center, to Ryan Browns and Rackford Brokerage Consulting, as well as Sharice and the HR team. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. And if there are any questions that happen to come up after this, I'm more than happy to answer them for you. So just let me know. Thank you so much. Thank you. And Lauren, before you jump off, could you just add in the comment section in the chat, just add your email address in case an alderman does want to email you. Yeah, you bet. Will do. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so we are back on, say, Roman numeral number three. We will go to...
 Roman numeral number four, petitions and communications. And I'll just read these in for the evening. Under planning and development, memorandum from La Pequeria Vaughan, assistant city attorney, regarding the renewal of the license agreement between the city of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation to the continued use of 312 Irving Avenue as a stronghouse for the Rockford Police Department.
 Item number two, memorandum from La Ficaria Bond, assistant city attorney regarding the proposed agreement between the city of Rockford and the WA company for the exchange of parcels and the release of public, public bicycle and exercise permanent easement for the property located at 650 Race Street.
 Item number three, memorandum from Carl Franson, Community and Economic Development. Director of the loan agreement with Jet Foods, Rockford LLC. All of these items have been referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item B, Code and Regulation Committee, Zoning Board of Appeals, agenda for the meeting to be held
 On December 15th, 2020 and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on January 4th, 2021. Item two, liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda for the meeting to be held on December 15th, 2020 and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on January 4th, 2021.
 Item number three, memorandum from Scott Capavila, planning and zoning manager regarding the final plan of OSFC Anthony subdivision. Item four, memorandum from Mike Atkinson, land transaction officer regarding the authorization to place the sale of the city-owned parcel will be at 106th Avenue. All of these items are referred to Code and Regulation. Item C, secretariat.
 FC1, memorandum from LaFecurie Vaughan, assistant city attorney regarding a request for a fine reduction at the property located at 1020 15th Avenue, reducing the fine from $2,500 to $500. Item number two, another memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, city administrator regarding a proposed lease extension with Rock Valley College, including existing sublease fee for the library at 424 Buc-ee.
 item number three memorandum from Aquanet partner and services director regarding the acceptance of the Illinois HEALS grant all three of these items have been referred to finance and personnel
 Next, we'll move to Roman numeral five public speakers. We only have one public speaker this evening. Mr. Meyer, are you prepared to read in Mr. John? I have a comment. Thank you, sir. All right. So he said, good evening. All the men, all the women and citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs 28, 27, God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb, proverbs can be restated positively.
 Those who hope in their eyes for the poor people will be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promises that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone else's needs? Due to COVID-19, a few families that are in the Renewal Turning Point program just got laid off from their jobs. Thus, they are asking for your help with 20 of our youth.
 If you would like to help, donations are as follows. For one use, $25. For two, $50. For three use, $75. And for four use, $100. Timothy G. Barmore of Rockford, Illinois recently stayed. If it was not for his brother here, John Tapp Brantley, I most likely would have not had any clothes or supplies. We always made sure a brother had a little change in his pocket.
 i'm sorry he always makes sure my brother had a little tea in his pocket through the summer work program at rock rock river training morning keys we called it cita if this brother helped you'd like to help me tell him thank you mr john tad brantley thank you that is the end of the statement thank you mr meyer and you've completed that uh with plenty of time to spare excellent next we will go to new committee reports
 We have nothing under planning and development. Under code and regulation, I'll read all these items for you. Committee recommends reversing the traffic commission's recommendation, no action for the following item.
 A request to establish traffic control at the intersection of Melrose Street and Cottage Grove Avenue and committee recommends approval to A establish the traffic on Cottage Grove Avenue be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Melrose Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for the request to repeal
 the no parking 6 a.m to 5 p.m restriction on the west side of fremont street from 120 feet south of quincy street to 270 feet south of quincy street that's re-establishing unrestricted parking item three committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation no action on the request to repeal the 20 mile per hour school zone speed limit and kishwaukee street from sixth avenue to gregory street
 4 committee recommends reversing the traffic commission's recommendation of no action for the request to establish a 25 mile per hour speed limit on Williamsburg Road and Guilford Road to Arbutus Road, thus repealing the 30 mile per hour speed limit on Williamsburg Road from Guilford Road to Arbutus.
 5. She recommends approval of proposed revisions to Chapter 29, Article 2 of the Code of Board Answers, always following characters. Item 6, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board's appeals approval for the special use permit.
 For vehicle sales and a motor vehicle repair shop tanker body work painting commercial vehicle repairs, outdoor storage for 21 vehicles waiting for servicing and repair and a C3 general commercial zoning district at 2112 North Central Avenue. Subject to conditions.
 Item 7, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 1244 Broadway.
 subject to conditions. Item eight, committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gasoline station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 6874 Weaver Road, subject to conditions.
 Number nine, committee recommends the standing of liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sales of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store in the C3 general commercial zoning district at 6874 Weaver Road. Subject to conditions, the leader of the director shall prepare all appropriate ordinances for the above mentioned items. So, Alderman, there's nine items before you. Do I need to test on those nine items?
 NONE. DIRKEY. AYE. LOGAN. AYE. TOOMBURG. AYE. FROXX. AYE. HERBY. OTHERMAN HERBY. URBAN. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 aye hoffman hi rose hi alderman beach hi big philly
 Your Honor? Aye. Chair? Herbie, is that you? Yes, I'm sorry. Okay, 11 aye. Okay, Keona says aye too. Oh, I'm sorry. I'll make it known as I didn't know you were on the meeting. 12 aye. Thank you, Chair.
 That's item number C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $10,180,552.52 as approved by Finance and Personnel Committee on the meeting of November 23rd. I just ask that you guys mute yourself until we get to it, sorry.
 Item number two committee recommends approval of the collaborative agreement between the city of Rockford human services and both grants. The provisions of this agreement are based on services to children and families enrolled in. And serve through the head start program funded by the U. S. Department of health and human services offices had start. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I don't think committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement.
 for dispatch emergency services between Winnebago County and the City of Rockford Emergency 911 Center. The cost is $646,548.40 and will be paid by the Winnebago County. The legal director shall provide the appropriate ordinance. Item number four, committee recommends approval of the 2021 budget appropriation ordinance and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 With that, is there any discussion on any of these items? Mayor Baskin-Mayer? All the way. Thank you. With respect to the budget, I know that it includes line items so that the city can pay the cost of the budget.
 alderman frost uh your internet has not been alderman frost your internet actually went spotty right when you started talking um i'm going to move to all the i can't email yes sir
 With respect to the body cameras, Mayor, I believe we discussed that we are still going to be pursuing other grants that are possibly out to offset the cost of those cameras. Body cameras, yes, sir. And we have received one grant, I believe, totaling approximately $150,000. We're absolutely seeking alternative revenue options for it. Okay. All right. Thank you, Mayor.
 welcome alderman hervey uh yes thank you with regard to the um tiff fund in the budget appropriations um document that we got are we transferring between any adjacent tiffs to cover underwater tips or or tips that are underperforming however we we say that
 Director Agri yes sir Alderman Hervey we are making I believe there's one transfer between adjacent TIFs planned in the budget I don't have those right off the top of my head but I believe there is just one okay do you know where it is roughly I'm
 FRANTICALLY TRYING TO OPEN THE RIGHT SPREADSHEET. IF YOU WANT TO GIVE ME JUST A MOMENT, I CAN LOCATE THAT. YOU KNOW WHAT? DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT. I JUST KIND OF WANTED TO KNOW IF THERE WAS ONLY ONE, THAT'S CERTAINLY A BIG CHANGE FROM 13. SO I'M NOT GOING TO WORRY ABOUT IT. THANKS. YEAH, YOU'RE WELCOME. I'LL SEND YOU THE SPECIFICS ON IT ONCE I LOCATE IT. BUT, YEAH, THAT PRACTICE HAS DIMINISHED SIGNIFICANTLY JUST AS THE TIFTS HAVE DECREASED.
 have generally gotten in a healthier position those transfers between tests have diminished significantly so I will follow up and give you those numbers though okay so thank you is there other discussion on any of the four items before you clerk could you please call the roll
 Logeman Aye Toomer Aye Frost Aye Hervey Aye Urban Aye Hoffman Aye Hoffman Aye
 Rowe aye aye Kinones aye Kinnan aye McNeely aye
 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Those items move forward. Next we have Roman numeral 7, appointments laid over. We still have one appointment that's been laid over, Crystal Soltow to the Community Action Agency Board to fill a vacant contractor position. It'll be a three-year term, but that doesn't come up until December 20th. Your Honor? Yes.
 Sorry to interrupt. Is it possible to get more of a CV or a resume from her? That application sheet is a little bit incomplete. I don't know if that's...
 too much for ass but it'd be kind of nice to see absolutely all of them this uh uh particular individual came forward from uh the city of belfied and boom county so we didn't get as much as we normally do but um director park and we'll certainly make an effort to get that full cp for you thank you very much appreciate it thank you good point and when we get that we'll get it out
 Next up, Roman numeral eight. We have nothing under item eight, which is planning and development. We have nothing under item B, close to bed. Item number C is finance and personnel, and I'll read those now. Item number one, we recommend approval for the award of bid for the 2020 demolition of Northern Illinois service of Rockford, Illinois and the Mount
 amount of $99,362 for the demolition of 120 Willard Avenue, 638 Oakley Avenue, 713 Ashland Avenue, 724 Kilburn Avenue, 815 8th Avenue, 1325 South Court Street, 2005 School Street, 2244 9th Street, 2324 Jonathan Avenue, 3101 Lacey Street, $3,000.
 funding sources development block grant uh next is committee recommends approval i'm just gonna ask that you guys mute your phones or your lines and part of some feedback uh there we go uh next committee recommends approval for the award a bid to the traffic signal or
 traffic signal, lighting parts, and supplies to Traffic Control Corporation of Woodridge, Illinois for an estimated annual value of 60,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through December 31st, 2021 with four possible one-year extensions, funding sources, traffic division operating budget. Item three, committee recommends approval of the resolution for improvement under Illinois Highway Code R1 planning council.
 Annual funding requires authorization for use in motor fuel tax funds in the amount of $76,292. Item number four, committee recommends approval of the acceptance of Illinois criminal justice information authority victims of crime act fiscal year 2019 multi victimization grant award. The grant award is in an amount of $632,072 and requires a match of
 of $158,018 which will be met through in-kind services. So no city funds. There's four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? Clerk, can you- Senator? Alderman Creighton. Just a quick question. If staff could provide just for the end of the year, sort of a roundup of demolitions,
 How much money, if any, is being carried over into the next year? And also the different sources for next year's demolitions. In other words, what's available out there? Do we still have any sanitation fund money? Just sort of a wrap-up of where we stand with demolitions overall. Okay.
 Yeah, great point Alderman. And Director Franson, could you just ensure, you don't have to comment, but just ensure that we get an update on what we've found and if we have any funds available? Absolutely, I'll provide that to all Alderman. Your Honor? Thank you, sir. One additional point. We usually keep a rank list. I asked for that at one point.
 of the you know how we score properties and how they're ranked for demolition i haven't seen that in a little bit and it'd be helpful to see uh where these properties are you know and what's happening i know the rank list is fluid and it changes but it'd be helpful to see it thank you
 We can absolutely get that. And do you want that? I have a feeling you said something like on a quarterly basis last time. Yeah, it'd be just kind of nice to see, to keep us informed of, you know, where we're heading, you know, neighborhoods or whatever, where we're heading with this. Because, I mean, all the aldermen have these, well, obviously the First Ward doesn't have a lot, but I think it'd be helpful to the aldermen to see that list because, you
 There may be changes in some, you know, we score these properties and sometimes something changes and it may push a particular property up in the rank list.
 And I think it's helpful for all of us to see that so that we can be, you know, a part of what's happening and then work with staff to either move certain properties up or certain properties down in that ranking. Absolutely. We can do that. Director Franzen, do you have any issues? Do you think we can get that accomplished? Sure.
 No, absolutely. And Alderman, I apologize for the delay. We've had a transition in the staff person overseeing our demolition program, but we are compiling both the rankings of the demos that we've done in 2020, as well as the pool that we are currently looking at. And as you pointed to, this is a fluid ranking system. Obviously, we use the ranking system that's been approved by council, but we do have emergency demos.
 due to fires and different situations. And we do try to do some geographical grouping for some economies of scale. But we're happy to provide that to Alderman as we proceed. Thank you, Mr. Franson. I appreciate it. No worries about the delay.
 Okay. Any other discussion on the four items before us? You're on. Just on number four, similar to what he said, it would be good to get a list of all the programs. I think that Jennifer Contagio's team has been a lot over the last few years. I think she's raised a million dollars for the Family Peace Center and something we need to do.
 I mean, for seeing what they're able to do, getting over 100 clients over the course of this pandemic, I think it's not too short of a miracle. So if we could get a list of those, I think it would be great for Alderman B. And Alderman Rose, you were a bit choppy, so I just want to repeat what I think you need, and if you just want to give me a head nod, and I'll make sure that we get it.
 You want to have this of all the grants that mayor's office and domestic trafficking prevention received and you said it's nothing short of a miracle that worked. I agree with you and we will certainly get that to you. We'll try to get it to you this week. Any other discussion on any of the items for Alderman McNally? Yes, Mr. Chair. Mayor. Yes, ma'am. It's Linda McNally. Item number.
 Number 3 for the. Of 76,292 dollars. I'm not understanding why we need to approve because the. The funds annually.
 It's more than that. So why this amount? Yeah, Director Saunders, can you answer that for us? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman McNeely, this is just authorizing the use of MFT funds to cover our costs associated with our contribution to R1PC as the MPO. So we're just authorizing the use of those funds to go towards that contribution. Thank you. Any other discussion on the four items that we have before you?
 Could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Alderman Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Bergen. Aye. Hoffman.
 Hi. Rose? Hi. Neat? Hi. Quinones? Hi. Hanley? Hi. Neat? Hi. Neat? Hi.
 Aye. McNeely? Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we'll go to item B, Code and Regulation Committee number 1. In order to end establishing that traffic on Cottage Grove Avenue be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Melrose Street.
 item two an ordinance approving the request to repeal the no parking 6 a.m to 5 p.m restriction on the west side of fremont street from 120 feet south of quincy street to 270 feet south of quincy street thus re-establishing unrestricted parking
 item three an ordinance establishing a 25 mile per hour speed limit on williamsburg road and guilford road to our buddhist thus repelling the 30 mile per hour speed limit on williamsburg road from guilford road to our buddhist road item four in ordinance approving the revisions to chapter 29 article 2 of the code and regulation uh i'm sorry of the code of ordinances horse-drawn carriages
 Item 5, in ordinance approving the special use permit for vehicle sales and motor vehicle repair shops include bodywork, painting, commercial vehicle repairs, and outdoor storage for 21 vehicles waiting for servicing or repair in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 2112 North Central Avenue.
 item six the ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store in a c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 1244 broadway item seven an ordinance approving the sale of package liquor in conjunction with the gasoline station and convenience store in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 6874 weaver road
 item eight in order to improve the sales tobacco products in conjunction with the gasoline station and convenience store in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 68 74 weaverville
 Now, there are items before you is there any discussion on those 8 items. There is a question number in regards to the Williamsburg row. Or do you have any. Any for bring it to 25, I guess. My concern is I'm just.
 I wanted asking for. The ceiling lower, and I frankly don't have a problem with that, but I thought it was the city. Chapter 30. Pretty all residential streets. Yeah. Thank you. Director Saunders.
 Thank you, Mary. I'll been frost. Our current residential speed limit is set at 30 miles per hour. There was a speed study, a subsequent speed study that was done along with. And I believe the 85th percentile for speed was. Right around 33 miles per hour. So I believe the original recommendation by traffic commission was to.
 maintain that 30 mile per hour speed limit, but it was reversed as a request to establish 25 mile per hour in this area. Your Honor? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, sir. I'd like to dovetail on Alderman Frost's comments. I know you were on council. This is another one of many proposals of mine that also crashed and burned. Okay.
 I mean, I got a list, man. It's great. But I would agree with Alderman. We're not talking about boat taxis, are we? I don't know. Boat taxis, library. I mean, you have time? I could do an officer's report. We don't. In any event, we had, I can't remember, but years ago, I took a look, and there
 There are numerous cities that have been dropping internal speed limits from 25 even to 20 miles per hour and finding increased safety measures. I understand the 85%, you know, sort of like a noncompliance issue, but...
 And, you know, I've always had trouble with how traffic commissions use that statistics. I'm not faulting our city staff. I know they have to use the guidelines that are set up by the state. But I, as a physician, when a kid gets hit by a car,
 the damage to a human, the damage to them doesn't go up algebraically when they get hit by a bumper. It goes up exponentially, meaning when you get clobbered by a vehicle, the difference between 20 miles an hour and 30 miles an hour is actually extremely significant. So I would, again, really would like to see, you know, I agree with Alderman Frost, I would really like to see...
 our city, you know, take another hard look at dropping speeds to 25, possibly even 20 miles per hour on the internal streets. There actually really is no good reason for anybody to drive 30 miles an hour on an internal street. If you're in that much of a hurry, leave earlier. But, you know, people get whacked and...
 And I don't know what our accident statistics, and maybe it's a moot point, but I most certainly would like to, even as a position, I would really like to see our internal speed limits drop. Altamand Durkee, we can certainly get that and get back to Alderman with the memo. I, too, looked at that when I was an alderman. I want to say Seattle, too.
 created a specific zone to begin with and dropped it down. And there are, as you mentioned, there is a drastic difference of individuals getting hate. At 20 miles per hour, you actually can live. And I think it, I don't want to quote the stats because it's been a while, but at 30 miles per hour, you have a higher, more likelihood of actually dying than you do at 20, pretty significantly, as you mentioned.
 As we go multimodal across elements of the city with bikes and things like that, I mean, this is, you know, I think this is going to take on a greater meaning as well. So thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. This item has been before the Trebzian Commission, I suppose it was,
 close to a year and to along with what uh alderman durkee is saying on the frost is saying um our traffic engineer says that he really hopes by reducing this will prompt the kind of conversations you're talking about in other areas to move this thing citywide and so um i really do support beginning it over here
 on this street um i know that is needed and so i would appreciate uh your consideration absolutely any other discussion on the eight items before you yes your honor alderman hervey alderman hervey just for for uh alderman beach my no vote on this one um
 is not to not be supportive of what they're asking, but it kind of goes to what the conversation is moving to. If I remember correctly, we've talked about the potential issues when a non-warranted action is taken for speed limit or stop signs. It can get messy, right?
 in other areas. And I kind of agreed with what Mr. Carter was saying. There's a cost to doing it across the city. He thought it was only about $70,000. I thought it would be more than that. But I think it's something we ought to do as a whole for the city and not just for a small space where people have a complaint about speeding. Okay.
 speeders aren't going to slow down because you say, well, now it's 20 miles an hour, or especially 25, that small drop.
 So, you know, what's the next request? My guess would be we want some police coverage so they can address the speeders. I mean, I've got five of those streets that they speed. One of them is near a school. So I know stop signs can help, but if we're using stop signs as a traffic-slowing measure,
 We've already talked about the fact that it raises problems. So I'm not trying not to be supportive, but I believe it's something if we're going to do it for safety and to address speeding, then we ought to do it citywide all at once.
 Change the signs, put the police out there, get the education going so all citizens are aware of it and it's not a speed trap and make it consistent across the city. Thank you. Your Honor. Yes. I'll just make one more comment here on this.
 Um, there's not a whole lot of options left because our police and fire are telling us they don't want speed humps or speed bumps. So those are two common devices that were used at one time that are being recommended by our staff to not be used now. And when the stop signs are taken away, because as we've just heard, that because
 Because of the warrants and so forth, that's gone. So when you come right down to it, unless you have a police officer out there, or you have some kind of way of radar on a continued basis, especially in the high traffic hours of the day, there's not a whole lot left. Now, I certainly would be supportive of having a wider conversation, but these people over here, we've been dealing with this now for nearly a year.
 And I just don't think doing nothing is no solution or a solution to the problem. So I don't know exactly what you want to do as a council to proceed.
 I don't know that we could amend this to include every residential street. I don't think the council is ready to make that decision tonight, but I'd certainly like to move forward with this item B3 if possible. Yeah, we will provide the council some traffic and speed mitigation thoughts through Director Saunders' memo to everyone. Just give us a week or two here to think about that.
 Think that through and what we can provide you and then we'll come back to the full council and we'll take the eight items up that we have tonight for any other discussion on those eight items. So, yeah.
 Sorry, was there another discussion that this is Alderman logger man? I not to pile on. I just want to express support for what Alderman beach. And Alderman Durkee said, I've had many of the same thoughts. So acknowledge what you just said, may are looking forward to that and to continue this discussion. Thank you. Perfect Thank you. Appreciate Alderman. Uh, could you please call the roll.
 DERKY? AYE. LOGEMAN? AYE. TUMBER? AYE. FROST? AYE. IRBY? I'M SORRY. NO ON 1, 3, AND 5. AYE ON THE REMAINDER. IRVIN? AYE.
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Gros? Aye. Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye.
 NO ON THREE. I AM THE REMAINING. THANK YOU. ITEM 1, 11 AYES, 1 NO. ITEM 2, 12 AYES. ITEM NUMBER 3, 10 AYES, 2 NOES. ITEM 4, 12 AYES. ITEM 5, 11 AYES, 1 NO. ITEM 6, 7 AND 8, 12 AYES. THANK YOU.
 Next, we'll go to finance and personnel committee in order and item number 1 in order to answer proving the collaborative agreement between the city of Brockford human services and rose brands incorporated. The provisions of this agreement are based on services to children and families enrolled in and served through the headset program funded by the US Department of health and human services or office of head start.
 Item number two, an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement for dispatch emergency services between Winnebago County and the City of Rockford Emergency 911 Center. The cost is $646,548.40 and will be paid for by Winnebago County. Item three, an ordinance approving the 2021 budget and appropriations ordinance.
 You have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Toomer? Aye. Frosch? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Erbens? Aye.
 Huffman aye Rose Aye Beech Aye Alderman Canonez Aye Hanley Aye McNeely Aye on one and two and no on three
 Items 1, 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 no.
 Excellent. Before we, or as we get to officer's reports, I just want to give a big thank you to Director Kelly Haggerty from finance and her entire team. It's always putting together a budget of this magnitude, especially in a year like this with projections, always difficult. But as always, Carrie, thank you. You've done an amazing job and so has your entire team. So thank you for that.
 Uh, with that, I will turn it, uh, over to Alderman Durkee so we can hear the rest of his list of items that, um, but you all Durkee for officers. No list. Just a reminder to the citizens, December 7th, 1941 was a big day in the United States history. And just a, uh, an aside comment that, um,
 The United States is, I know, you know, we're dealing with a lot of blemishes lately, but the United States has freed more people and supported more people than any other country in the history of the globe. And so I know we got our warts, but, you know, December 7th marked a very, very sad day, but the beginning of freeing two continents.
 from our despots. So a shout out to our military heroes. Well, what a great prelude to go to Alderman Durkee. Tough to follow that. I like what Alderman Durkee said. I vote in approval. Nothing else, Mayor. Alderman Toomberg? No.
 I guess my 40 plus years ago, playing invisible rope on Williamsburg with all my neighborhood kids didn't seem to slow down traffic too much. So, yeah.
 But I have a thing with speed everyone. I'm sure deals with it. I get quite a bit of that and I think it's something we should entertain level, but on some of the other streets as well. So I look forward to that conversation. Thanks. Thank you.
 oh once again my uh my hat goes off to all in turkey although he did not present us with our list but uh um as we celebrate or i guess respect and honor um the anniversary of pearl harbor today but we do take a moment to um reflect on that and all that's come as a result of that throughout the world thank you thank you all this across i mean herbie
 nothing your honor thank you Alderman Irvin your honor thank you Alderman Tops and Kelly I don't know if she's with us tonight Alderman Hoffman nothing this evening your honor Alderman Rose I wanted to congratulate Carl Pranthopin
 uh around the jet food project i know this is on tonight uh and it's looking like a deal is getting done for um the citizens on the northwest end getting a new grocery store so i'm really excited i probably get at least one or two emails a month on that and um carl's put a lot of work into that
 Congratulations on getting that deal. Thank you. And that was a bit choppy, but my understanding is you want to congratulate director friends and. For the good work of getting the jet foods item up on before council as it was right in tonight and you get quite a bit of calls. I think all of us do about certain areas without groceries. So thank you. All the.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to see if our traffic department can take a look at these flashing yellow lights late at night. There's a lot of intersections around where you're stopped because it could be stopped as much as five minutes because it says stop on red. And there's several intersections around the community that at certain hours of the night, they flash yellow.
 So if there's no cars coming with yellow, you can go. And I'd like to see if they can look that over and see if maybe we can affect more of that in Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. Director Saunders, Jeremy Carter is going to be a busy man in the next couple of weeks. Alderman Quinones. Nothing, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Hanley. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Nothing. Thank you.
 Okay, is there a motion to adjourn? 2nd, we have a motion. We have a 2nd.
 Next discussion. If there is no discussion, could you please call the roll? Dirk. Aye. Bozeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Gras. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Brooks. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinonez. Aye.
 Aye. Stanley? Aye. Neely? Aye. 12-I. We are adjourned. We hope you have a wonderful night. Stay safe and healthy out this week. Take care.