wonderful i will uh call to order the city of roxford's regularly scheduled city council meeting for monday december 6 2021 clerk could you please call the roll jerky here logan tunberg terena prenti wilkins here hoffman beach quinones meeks mcneely fanny 14 i'm sorry 12 present
 Thank you. And Alderwoman Prundt, I appreciate you joining us virtually, I guess.
 make sure that you're aware if you get disconnected we'll need you to call back in and also if you do leave due to either your own choice or technology difficulties we would need You to let us know that you are leaving if that's possible so that we could continue on with the meeting
 because if something happens, we would have to stop the meeting immediately, as in, I think, last week or the previous week it happened. So just making you aware of that. So next, is there a motion to approve a journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on October 4, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye.
 Excellent. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on October 18th, 2021? Is there any discussion? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Strategic Planning Session held on October 28th, 2021? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Okay.
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. All right. Next, we're going to move to petitions and communications. Alderwoman Meeks in planning and development. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under petitions and communication, A, Planning and Development Committee, item number one, we have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding the proposed funding, long-term loan for the capitalization of community development financial institution in partnership with Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation and Rockford Local Development Corporation and local financial institutions. This is referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 item number two memorandum from carl franzen community and economic development director regarding a proposed redevelopment agreement with harrison kishwaukee llc for 707 harrison avenue this too has been referred to the planning and development committee and item number three memorandum from carl franzen community and economic development director regarding the 2022 funding agreement with the rockford area economic development council referred to the planning and development committee
 Thank you, Alderwoman Meeks. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trena. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Petitions and Communications, item number B, Codes and Regulation Committee, number 1, memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation in the 4900 block of Marion Avenue, referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. Item number 2, memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the third quarter report,
 From July to September 2021 on liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement referred to the code and regulation committee. Item number three memorandum from Scott Capavilla planning and zoning manager regarding the tentative plat of quick trip store number 7206 subdivision referred to code and regulation committee.
 Item number four, memorandum from Scott Capabilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding the final plat number two of 24-7 subdivision, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And lastly, item number five, memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding an ordinance establishing a civilian review board, referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to Alderman Logeman and Finance and Personnel Committee.
 thank you mayor uh finance personnel committee one item memoranda from jennifer cachapalia executive director mayor's office of domestic community violence prevention regarding an intergovernmental agreement between rockford park district the city of rockford for a collaborative summer youth program this matter is referred to the finance and personnel committee thank you alderman logeman
 an item okay alderman can i alderwoman meets if you want to bring that forward yeah i just wanted to read in item number four a memorandum from taca noni city administrator regarding a development agreement with rockford area habitat for humanity for a critical residential repair program and this is referred to planning and development committee thank you and i'm sorry i didn't catch that either the first time
 Next, we'll move. We've already done public speakers. It does state on your agenda that we have a fifth public speaker, and it was a former Alderwoman, Ann Thompson-Kelly. She could not attend at the last moment, so we're not skipping her. She's just not able to attend. Next, we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Item A, Planning and Development Committee under item number one, committee recommends approval of the revised Rockford Historic Preservation Plan. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Bonney? Thank you, Mayor. I questioned when this was before planning and development the issue of the ordinance itself separate from the plan.
 and I still have some concern about us passing a plan absent considering how it might relate to our ordinance and particularly our requirement that came about in 2004 that in cases where landmark status is being objected to by the property owner that we have a two thirds majority
 And that is, you know, I think this relates to the plan because if you look at page 20, for example, it talks about sites and structures proposed for landmark designation. And of the list of 17, two of them are owned by the Catholic Diocese, and it is the Catholic Diocese that proposed the ordinance change that we now have.
 That was the reason that the vote to fail to award landmark status to the chancery two years ago, because there was a majority vote. There was just not a super majority vote. And I think we should have some, there's also some other, for, for example, the news tower, which I think we would be hard pressed to imagine a scenario where the
 willingly would be the applicant and if they're not the applicant and if we take if we take this seriously I don't know why the ordinance existed for the first 20 years without a supermajority and now we have a supermajority requirement put in influenced by the put in place or manipulated by the diocese and we're have two of the seventeen structures on here owned by the diocese
 but i also have in trying to talk this issue through with some preservation advocates in town leading preservation advocates who are not on the preservation commission they were unaware that we were even discussing uh an update to the plan which is not to say the plan update to the plan is not needed and that the and that it's not a good update and that the work of the commission and the staff
 is that there's anything wrong there. I just think people who work in preservation and are advocates for it should have the opportunity to read it and digest it and offer any comments. And based on those I've talked to that hasn't happened. So I would move that we lay this over. There's a motion and other. I couldn't hear you, okay.
 Thank you. So there's a motion, there's a second, so it's automatically laid over. Next up, we're going to Codes and Regulation Committee, Alderman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Codes and Regulations Committee, item number one. Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval for the request to establish two-hour parking on the south side of East Jefferson Street from 40 feet east of Hall Street to 125 feet east of Hall Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number two, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish handicap parking on the south side of Elm Street from 45 feet west of South Court Street to 85 feet west of South Court Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number three, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for a restriction that traffic on Anderson Street be required to yield prior to entering the intersection with Foster Avenue.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number four, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval for a restriction that traffic on Andrew Street be required to yield prior to entering the intersection with Bayless Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number five committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action be taken on the following items item number one a Request to establish and always stop at the intersection of 19th Street and Willis Avenue Thus repealing the existing traffic control of Willis Avenue yielding for 19th Street and item number two a request to establish no parking anytime and
 on the west side of North Prospect Street from Crosby Street to Prospect Court, thus repealing the existing restriction of no parking any time on the west side of North Prospect Street from Crosby Street to 50 feet south of Crosby Street. Item number six.
 Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval of the proposed amendment to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 16-149, trucks parking in certain designated areas. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number seven. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a modification of Special Use Permit 049-15-20,
 For a new 40 by 30 detached garage in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 127 North Henrietta Avenue, Ponds Family Properties applicant. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I have number eight. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a gas station with convenience store and an auto repair shop in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 2837 11th Street.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number nine. Excuse me. Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to reduce the required 102 parking spaces to 76 parking spaces in a 72, excuse me, C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6820 East State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number 10.
 Committee recommends approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development Consisting of a banquet hall for parties and weddings in a c1 Limited office zoning district at 3 1 1 4 North Rockton Avenue Thus reversing the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation for a denial Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Also, the approval requires 10 votes item number 11. I
 Committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a wedding and events facility with outdoor seating in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 214 East State Street the standard subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and lastly item number 12 a
 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store at a c3 general commercial zoning district at 3003 11th Street Subject to amended conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these 12 items before you for passage All right
 So, council, we got 12 items before you. Is there any discussion on any of the 12 items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Alderwoman Prunty, are you with us? Aye. Thank you. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Aye. Items 1 through 12, 11 ayes, 1 no. Aye.
 all right we're moving right along uh finance and personnel will be uh committee will be next alderman logan thank you mayor uh item c1 committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of 10 million one hundred seventy nine thousand eight hundred and thirty seven dollars and 62 cents is approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting held on november 22nd 2021. item
 Item number two, committee recommends approval of the proposed sale of the city-owned property located at 1022 Benton Street and XXX Chamberlain Street to Rock River Valley Blood Center for $3,000. The buyer is a contiguous property owner and is planning to use the parcel for expansion of their business.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number three, committee recommends approval of the amended collaborative agreement between the City of Rockford Health and Human Services and Rosecrans. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number four, committee recommends approval of the early Head Start Child Care Partnership non-federal share waiver request in the amount of $82,264 for the grant period of July 1st, 2020 to June 30th, 2021. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you.
 Item number five. Committee recommends the approval of the Early Head Starch Care Special Needs Waiver Request of the requirement to serve at least 10% of children with identified special needs during the 2020-2021 program year. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number six.
 The committee recommends approval of the general wage increase for non-represented employees. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number seven, proposed purchase of property at XXX New Milford School Road in the amount of $232,200.
 The property is being sold by Dorothy L. Evans Living Trust and Evans Family Trust. The property is being purchased by the Water Division for the future site of the Well 24 Water Treatment Plant addition as identified in the 22 through 26 CIP. Is it, Mayor? All right. Thank you. Next we have, or I'm sorry, before you, we have seven items. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Dirke. Aye.
 Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Prunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Beach? Quinones? Meeks? Bonney? 11 ayes. Alderman McNeely is back. Alderman McNeely. Wonderful. Next, we'll go to Unfinished Business Committee Reports Laid Over. We have no items under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under Code and Regulation Committee Item 1, the Committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Section 3-54, Persons and Premises Not to be Licensed, Paragraph 13. The Legal Director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. This was laid over from November 15th. And Item 2, the Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a crematory in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District.
 At 215 North 6th Street, subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance laid over from November 15th. Excellent. Thank you. So, counsel, we have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderman Toomberg. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to make an amendment to one of the revisions, or I'm sorry, one of the conditions to allow for a revised condition on item B-2.
 and the revision should read under number five, the existing free standing pylon sign at Crosby Street and Sixth Street shall be removed and or replaced with a landmark style sign within six months after the reconfiguration of and or the conversion of Sixth Street to a two-way street.
 okay i'd be happy to answer any questions so uh mr meyer so mr mayor thanks according to our council role once an item makes it to uh city council floor those amendments should be in writing if you want to give me that language i can put that in writing and submit that back to council but this should probably be laid over to allow that to happen oh that sounds fine on my end do you want to make a motion so a motion to lay this over then
 On B2. We have a motion, we have a second. Motion and a second. We do need a vote because it's already been laid over. Okay. Any discussion on the layover vote? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Pronte. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Aye. Twelve ayes.
 Excellent. So we still have B1 before us. Is there any discussion on B1? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. No. Logaman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Canones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Alderman Prunty, can you repeat your answer? No. No. Thank you. Thank you. Eight ayes, four noes.
 Excellent moving right along and we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman Logan Items see number one committee recommends approval of the lease agreement between the city of Rockford and be money at the Aries LLC for the property Located at 16 XX North Lyford Road the legal director shall shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you. We have one item before you is there any discussion on that one item? No, we didn't that was be one now We're on c1 any discussion
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. No. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. No. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Eight ayes, four noes. Excellent. Moving along. Officers' reports. Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor.
 I just wanted to acknowledge an event that's going to be happening this Sunday. It's a pastoral installation for Pastor Williams of Pilgrim Baptist Church. It's 1703 South Central Avenue, and there's going to be guest artists. So if you're into gospel music, Dottie Peoples will be there. I understand that that's actually a relative of his. Okay.
 And there is going to be a gentleman named Dr. Bernard Mitchell, who's kind of a famous pastor there as well. So I just want to invite anyone to attend. But also just a shout out to Pastor Williams. I think he's been very intentional about going around to community leaders, just making sure that he's meeting the right people and also just.
 Trying to engage as much as he can with the community He wants to really help and he wants to partner and collaborate with people So I really appreciate him so far and I look forward to just working with him in the future and also supporting his installation This week. Thank you. There alderman have officers reports alderman Bonnie. Thank you I just want to thank director friends and even though he's not here for his work helping
 um pushed the demolition of a commercial property in the 4800 block of east state street that had become quite an eyesore it was condemned and there were several years of back taxes that i believe have now been paid and uh um it was a residential property that had been uh
 uh very unusual with a large billboard build over the roof of it and it has been uh that had been commercial space later and uh this I think it's particularly important uh
 demolition because of the sidewalk gap project that's happening in that section of East State next year when we'll be through the state grant filling in the Parts of the sidewalk that are don't exist between Alpine and Newtown Drive So I just want to again thank director for Franzen for being persistent on that issue because it was a real blight on that section of the business corridor and
 Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mayor. It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas in the 13th Ward, thanks to Public Works and also an organization that has a tree in front of the police department and also on State and Central. So I want to thank that organization as well as Public Works on that.
 Preston and Avon as well as on Central, the yards, both of them. That was a pleasant surprise when I drove through. So thank you. Thank you. Any other reports? Excellent. Moving right along to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, nothing under code and regulation committee, so we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Logman. Thank you, Mayor. Item C, number one, committee recommends approval of the award of bid for
 Citywide pavement marking 2021 bikes to countryman ink of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $96,720. The project is estimated to be completed in the spring of 2022. The funding source is sales tax.
 Item number two, committee recommends approval of the award of bid intersection bike detection equipment to ITS Plus Inc. of Plano, Texas in the amount of $61,565. The installation is planned for the spring-summer of 2022 and shall include seven intersections. The funding source is sales tax. Item number three.
 Committee recommends approval of the award of Bid Shepard Trail Facility Indoor Shooting Range to Rockford Structures Construction Company of McChesney Park, Illinois, in the amount of $1,305,000. The project is estimated to be completed in eight months. The funding source is $8,000,000.
 The funding sources 8 million bond proceeds, police operating budget, build Illinois bond funds. Item number four, committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract, three ambulances to Fire Service Incorporated of Naperville, Illinois in the amount of $1,065,405.
 which is $315,135 for each ambulance and $40,000 for loose equipment, including cardiac monitor. The funding source is Capital Lease Funds Fire Department Capital Budget. Item number five, award of joint purchasing contract, two fire engines to McQueen Emergency Equipment Group of St. Paul, Minnesota, in the amount of $1,300,000. The funding source is Capital Lease Funds Fire Department Capital Budget.
 Item number six, committee recommends approval of the contract renewal third-party administrator for medical and hospital benefits for the 2022 health insurance plan to Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois for the contract amount rates of $53.78 per employee per month PPO plan and $27.96 per employee per month HSA plan following the reduction for prescription rebate.
 Total estimated annual administration costs $683,213 based on 924 PPO participates and 259 HSA participants.
 The contract duration is one year. The funding source is a health insurance fund. Item number seven, the committee recommends approval of the contract renewal dental benefits for the 2022 year plan with Metropolitan Life Insurance for the contract amount rates of $27.84, employee-only coverage $65.75, employee plus one, 126, 20 family. At the current enrollment level, the total estimated annual premium will be
 one million two hundred and one thousand eight hundred thirty dollars the contract duration is one year the funding sources of health insurance fund item number eight committee recommends approval of the contract renewal employer employer paid group term life insurance for city of rockford employees with metropolitan life insurance for contract amount rates point one oh eight
 cents per $1,000 of life insurance coverage and 0.25 cents per $1,000 of AD&D coverage at the current employee and at the current employee count the total estimated annual premium will be $47,493 the contract duration is one year the funding source is a health insurance fund and
 Item number nine, committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement, Riverfront Path Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program, ITEP, to Fairgram of Rockford in the amount of $201,410. The contract duration is through 2022. The funding source is motor fuel tax funds.
 Item number 10, the committee recommends the approval of the resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code authorizing the use of motor fuel tax funds for the Riverfront Path ITEP in the amount of $300,000. Item number 11, committee recommends approval of the acceptance of grant award.
 For 2021 Department of Justice Office of Violence Against Women, Women's Improving Criminal Justice Responses Program grant in the amount of $499,999. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from October 1st, 2021 to September 30th, 2024. Item number 12, committee recommends approval of the acceptance of Department of Housing and Urban Development
 grant award in the amount of $3,579,012. The grant award will provide funds to benefit individuals and families who are homeless, at risk of homelessness, or in other vulnerable populations. Item number 13, committee recommends approval and acceptance of administration of children and families, Office of Head Start, annual continuation of Head Start, early Head Start services for the period of April 1, 2022 –
 to March 31st, 2023 and approval of the self-assessment report, self-assessment work plan and program goals. That concludes the items for finance personnel mayor. Excellent, so we have 13 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 13 Alderwoman Meeks? For item number two, can you tell me, or can someone tell me what the seven intersections are?
 Director Saunders. So I can forward you this email, but they are Springbrook and Mulford, Auburn and Johnston, Charles and Washington, Newburgh and Arnold, Spring Creek and Driftwood, State and Prospect, and State and Summit. So I will forward you this email so you have it. Thank you. Other discussion? Other one, McNeely? Thank you, Mayor. Item number 9 and 10.
 I thought that the bike path was under the Park District. It's not as up to the city? The city takes on that expense? Director Saunders? So the riverfront path that we're looking to do design engineering would be under the city's jurisdiction. The Park District does, under a maintenance agreement, maintain certain portions of the esplanade from a landscaping standpoint. But we actually own the hard infrastructure.
 And director something can I just add just may help with some clarification? Is this on the west side of the river and do you want to explain that stretch of it? Yep, so it is on the west side of the river and it's connecting the rails to trails pedestrian bridge That's just south of the new Embassy Suites Hotel Through Davis Park and all the way north to the Whitman Street Bridge Where then I'll cross and connect to the the path that runs in front of the Y Thank you. Thank you mayor and also mayor number I
 Number three, back to it. Oh, I was going to comment on number three. I've been supporting this and voting for different parts of it that's come before us. However, I've been thinking that it's unfortunate that the city would have to go outside of the city for the shooting range. When in my ward, there's plenty of land out there, and I don't know if the police department looked out in my area. Nope.
 Ranges in Rockford. It's actually an alderwoman meets ward. I thought it said Machesney. The work is being done by someone who lives in Machesney Park. The company is in. Housed in Machesney Park. I'm sorry. In that case, I take back what I said. Sorry. Any other discussion, alderwoman? No? Okay. Alderman Beach and then Alderman Durkee. Your Honor, if someone could just explain how this bike intersection detection equipment works.
 at a major intersection. Director Saunders, I think, is probably pretty excited to talk about it. And before you begin, I just want to say thank you. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. So the bike detection equipment, so a lot of times when you pull up to an intersection, not a lot of times, throughout the city, you will see on the mast arm for the traffic signal, you'll see what looks like a camera sitting up there.
 That camera isn't shooting video. That camera is actually looking at the different drive lanes and different turning movements, and it's detecting vehicles within those little boxes, if you will. So in this case, this bike detection equipment can now not only detect cars but also bikes, so it can actually trigger the signals to then cycle so that the bike can safely cross the intersection. So it's just the next step in technology in our overall detection equipment. So I really appreciate
 your honor i really appreciate that explanation so what we're saying is that up until this time uh people that are riding bikes do not obey the signal lights if it's red stop and wait until it's green again they just go right through is that what we're saying
 Nope. So they do obey. They just have to wait for the signal to cycle on its own. So, you know, enough cars to come to the intersection. In this case, the intersection could actually trigger and cycle based on the presence of bikes at the intersection as well. So they would either have to wait for the signal just to naturally cycle, or they'd have to hit the pedestrian push button to trigger those cycles currently. Okay.
 Thank you. I could think of a few other intersections for automobiles that they ought to have that too, especially like when you're waiting to get off of North 2nd Street up to F already. That light can be four or five minutes long if there's no cars there. Director Saunders? So one of the really cool additional ads on this particular contract is, and I'm not going to be able to dive into all the details,
 but this ITS Plus technology is a much more cost effective technology than the current video detection equipment we deploy now. So right now, our per unit cost to upgrade an intersection from a standard loop to video detection is about $23,000. This brings it down to about 8,500, so we will be able to upgrade some of our other intersections that currently operate on loops to this type of technology that would also trigger it for cars. Thank you.
 thank you sir thank you alderman durkee thank you your honor just a comment on item 12. um we're starting obviously because of what's happened with covet to see a lot of money being dumped on the city i think a couple weeks ago we voted on and and spent um cannabis funds
 In my opinion through that a whole bunch of programs which was stated on the council floor We have no idea how to measure the outcomes. So we're throwing money at a problem. Don't know These programs now at least for our city are starting to look more and more like almost like toxic charity And it's an interesting concept that I think as a council you google search it explore the concept because toxic charity just shares stuff and
 It doesn't share power. In fact, toxic charity creates a dependency. It disempowers citizens and it ruins neighborhoods. And it seems to be going on now. The federal government is great at it because none of it is results-driven. I mean, we look at the money that the federal government, states, and local municipalities have spent since the Johnson administration, the homelessness rates, the
 poverty rates, all this stuff is still the same. Nothing has changed. And so the problem with this current system that we have is the program, the handout itself, and the deliverer, the giver, all become more important than the results. And so what happens is the elected guy stands up, takes a bow, puts a cool thing on Facebook that says, gee, we voted for this program, or we hold a press conference,
 And then we move on. And then two years later, we look for another grant or another handout because we have the same problem. And when these things are not results-driven, the programs are never killed. They're never modified. They're never anything except refunded.
 I think right now within the federal government in Washington, D.C., there's 2,492 different departments that are handing out money to any number of different people, programs, agencies. And sooner or later, we can do it on a local level. Either we start saying no to this money or do something very, very different because it's not working. As far as I know, Rockford has had the same challenges for years.
 And I am not smart enough maybe to figure out a solution to it. I do know things have happened. As soon as the federal government could fund a family without a father in it, things really changed. And so throwing money at programs, throwing money at people, and doing this without results being, I can't support this stuff anymore.
 So either we have to sit down and focus on what works, what is a root cause. Now, I understand there are certain folks that are homeless, as far as this relates to, that have a high degree of mental illness, and that's a tragedy. And we do have, finally, a Winnebago County...
 supported fund where we can address mental health issues and Rose Krantz has stepped up among other agencies to help address that but beyond that I'm not quite sure what we're trying to accomplish we get people in a house right we want we have mortgage assistance and all this great stuff and then we have to fund the house because the windows are going bad or something else is fixed and they apply for apply for another program
 for money from another program to fix their house up. What have we accomplished? I'm very confused as we look historically. Historically, this is not working. We have to be results-driven, and we have to rethink what we're doing. We either find a root cause or whatever. And the other thing, the other unintended consequence is we import people to Rockford.
 Now, in my line of work, I do a lot of delivers. I deliver everybody. Anybody that comes to my office, I take care of. But it's not uncommon for a young lady to show up to Rockford who moved here from somewhere else because we give her stuff. And then now we take care of her, we take care of the baby, and another fatherless household.
 that she may have left family from another locale to come here because we give her stuff. That's what I see. Other people may have their own view of that. But I think sooner or later, somebody's got to wise up because these things are not working. And history proves it. You may disagree with my opinion and maybe my poor attempt at trying to explain this, but you can't disagree with history because it's not working.
 I would just say that I think you are correct. A lot of people probably would disagree with much of what you said, but...
 Would say for the city one it wasn't stated that there was no metrics in the canvas funds and the programs Involved and funded it was stated that each program may have different metrics based on the program initiatives and what they were Working towards succeeding but both director franz and director part him will be working with those to provide back to you those metrics
 Will they work? We will find out. No one knows that yet. I would say, too, as it relates to the homeless funds, I think just speaking broadly, maybe not these specifically, I think...
 One, you probably have some argument to be made and would find agreement with me and a host of others about how the federal government does not provide a lot of metrics for a lot of their dollars. But I would also say that when you look at the city of Rockford and what our human services department has done with homeless dollars and reducing homelessness in our community,
 we are really a national story to look at much of the work that can be done. I think it's veterans' homelessness, and I think we've done two other categories as well and are working towards the last two of the five categories in homelessness for functional zero.
 I think obviously we, and I don't think any staff member would say, even if we get those five, we've done it. You just got to keep working. But I believe the numbers were a year and a half ago, two years ago, it was 230, 250 in homelessness count. Even after the, not after, through the pandemic, just as a couple of months ago, and my memory could be off, this is from memory, it was about 150. So the efforts that our human services staff is doing is actually pretty incredible.
 older woman McNeely Thank You mayor speaking on the homeless I had a young lady come to my house about two months ago and she what didn't have a place to stay it was right before it started to get really cold and I had called staff
 and Director Parham and told her the situation. And she, Director Parham, told me that the lady would have to go to the location on West State Street to stay there overnight. So I was under the impression and agreeing with Alderman Durkee the amount of money that we get
 that in the past when I've called staff they were able to a young lady could go to a hotel and spend the night and that may afterwards after talking the person talking with staff that made
 turned out to be an extended stay, but at least the initial night. And the lady that came to my house said, no, I will not go there. I've been there before. And those people are not accommodating. So I wonder like Alderman Durkee, and I think Alderman Durkee for me, looking at the money over the years, it appears that the money comes from DC
 there are no guidelines for the locals because it goes through the state and then comes to through the city so if those guidelines aren't there and you have City Council that doesn't have a better grasp or handle of it then it doesn't come out the way you would think it would I know we get millions of dollars here from HUD and so
 For me to be complaining about housing and we're getting millions in and that's under more under our RHA than the city However, I agree with you that we're getting millions of dollars in and I don't see it I don't know why my Ward still looks the way it does and now under this federal
 Under this administration under President Biden. We are getting all this money coming in and I know it's still early yet So I haven't seen it but I would hope that we could see like you said make some kind of measurement at the local level and Be able to give some accountability to the federal level That makes sense. I mean, this is not unique to Rockford you go to any city and
 and you know those dollars are going there from the feds. But why does a community, a particular community, look like it just went through a desert storm or something? Excuse me. So I agree with you that there should be accountability, and why should we keep accepting these dollars if we can't see the improvements? So...
 There has to be an answer, and we should be able to address it and figure it out. Thank you. I'll go to Director Parham, and I'll just say there's not a dollar we get from the state or federal government that doesn't come with guidelines or massive restrictions, just to clarify that record, because that was not accurate.
 Thank you, Alderman, for your comments as well as your concerns, and indeed they are duly noted. But I will say that to your comment first, Alderman McNeely, a number of the funds that we received, just like Mayor McNamara just indicated, the varying streams that come from HUD have differing requirements. So depending on the young woman's situation who called the office at one point, perhaps
 during COVID. I know earlier in the year during the pandemic when the shelters had to reduce their census for safety reasons, then more people were placed immediately in hotels for that reason as a COVID precaution with the shelters that had shut down or stopped allowing individuals to come in for their census. So over the course of the pandemic, some of those circumstances have changed. However,
 Each of the funding streams that come from HUD have different requirements for those programs. So, for example, the Emergency Solutions Grant will have different requirements for actually qualifying for that program and what a person actually has their situation has to be in order to be indicative of imminent homelessness.
 It's not always the exact same thing for a person depending on their situation. So sometimes that will change depending on the assistance that they actually qualify for, like how they qualify for it can change. Now with regards to these funds,
 These home ARP funds are different from some of the other homeless funds that City Council has accepted from HUD and that these dollars are actually intended, although your description said to provide housing and services, these dollars really are more so with regards to housing.
 development and support of affordable housing. So what happens is that the approval of this grant award from City Council would actually allow the City of Rockford to immediately start utilizing up to 5% of the total award for administrative and planning activities, but acceptance of this award is not approval for specific projects or plans. The city is then required to go through a full consultation and public participation process
 that assesses unmet need with qualifying populations as well as creating an overall plan. So this is more for funding like large-scale projects that actually address some of the gaps in housing and availability for homeless folks. So this is not intended to be another rental assistance program or a program for folks that are imminently housed just paying the rent somewhere.
 ARP dollars are really more so about funding a large-scale project or allowing the city to come up with a comprehensive plan for how to support a large-scale project to help house homeless individuals. So that is how this is — these funds are different from some of the others that you've seen, but again, your concerns are — are duly noted with regard to a number of the streams that come from HUD. I'll just respond just to that.
 That was your exact, almost your exact verbiage was said in the 60s. That's my point. I wasn't alive, though. Terminator job. But that was part of my point. It all sounds exactly the same.
 It's all is the same stuff said over and over again in a different package and this is what I'm driving at and in our city You know, we talk about affordable housing. Our market rate housing is quite low in certain areas So and then you know the moving so I I that's just that's my point It just seems like the same stuff over and over again with a different name understood, so
 Will just my last comment on this we're fortunate as a City Council to have two people running for federal office my plea to both people is please My belief is we these dollars come with far too much Regulation and guidelines if we as a community could make decisions we would have much more flexibility and I believe the federal government provides each community the same box of
 funds with the same guidelines in each community is drastically different and if we had much more local say that you as a body who represent actual people who I agree need to see those dollars could have greater influence and help adjust those rules we would be a better community so would so many others but they're made at a federal level and every dollar and every person is the same when they're not right Alderman to work
 Thanks mayor. I was gonna ask speak before So some some of what I was gonna mention has been said fortunately, so I'll be rather short-winded for everyone's sake You know I
 Milton Friedman the great late great economist, which I'm sure my colleague alderman logan min is very well aware teaching economics at Auburn But you touched on federal spending mayor and and Milton Friedman said if the federal government was in charge of the Sahara desert In five years there'd be a shortage of sand so
 With that said, he also mentioned one of the great mistakes is to judge policies and programs by their intentions rather than results. And I know that was touched on tonight, too. So that's what I was going to get to was just that, is that we have seen so much money come across our desks in the last decade.
 year, two years, even a few weeks back, I think $2.5 million was going towards low-income rental and low-income utility assistance. Now, I appreciate Director Parham with her statements that different
 HUD money coming to us go to different things. But again, a economic survey was done just recently in the past week or so, and it was found out that 53% of individuals who were laid off due to COVID reasons, due to the pandemic, not because they had COVID, but because of the shutdowns, 53% of them are not even looking for work
 or doing very little to look for work. And so I am all for helping out the helpless, but I'm tired of helping out the clueless. So it's how do we decipher? I know, and everyone I think has seen in their wards, people that are physically and mentally able-bodied to work, but simply aren't due to either their disability
 lazy or they know how to work the system. How do we decipher? That is my concern, is the individuals that absolutely need this kind of help are getting targeted to get that help versus individuals that I know every one of us aldermen have seen just hanging around
 It's a work day, but they're not working. I think they're up to many other things. And how do we make sure that it just goes to the individuals that need this?
 And I know that Rockford has been a dumping ground for individuals. I've known it from the Baymont Hotel even a couple years ago when I stood in for Dr. Durkee and people were getting off the buses off a 90 with a one-way ticket to Rockford.
 They're going for the first due to inclement weather going right into the hotel One of the desk workers got punched when they were asked to leave They were sitting down helping themselves at the free breakfast buffet for the guests I wasn't one of them because I do like those buffets, but you know, so I
 Yeah, I'm concerned that we keep getting this money. I know that it's been touched on, the LBJ, Great Society. Take the parent out of the household, one of the parents out of the household, and the government and the streets will take care of you. So that's it. Thank you.
 I would just add, again, with those rental assistance dollars or the mortgage assistance, there are criteria and verifications of that criteria that that person during the global pandemic is in need, and it's justified through.
 a host of measures and double checks in certain cases. We, myself and Mr. Cagnoni, had the opportunity to meet with the director of IDA, and one of the concerns and calls we frequently get
 if our staff is moving at a light speed which they recently have had to and are but you still get the folks who are saying you know i applied x many weeks or months ago and my rent or my mortgage is due they need to hurry up that some of that slowness in that process is the number of checks and verifications that they're having to do
 I totally agree there's going to be a very small percentage who are going to game the system, especially when huge funds like this are put out. But I think when you review those applications and you hear the stories of what's taking place, I think truly more people aren't looking for work because of child care needs than aren't looking for work because they're lazy.
 director or alderwoman McNeely thank you mayor and I can assure you when I get to DC I will definitely think you got it first but
 and definitely think about how to to make things more easy for the locals but also I think at the local level from my experience here 24 years plus is that
 the city's not just the city but the cities can certainly adhere to some of the criticism that's given to the federal government as well and I really don't want to go into history about why certain things occur in this have occurred in this country
 But we certainly can't walk out here during the day and see people walking around or standing around and say, well, they just don't want to work and they don't have a job because you don't know. Places have three different shifts for people, so you don't know what shift they're working on to know that they're not working. Right.
 Also for individuals that worked prior to the pandemic and are not working now as the mayor alluded to, there's a reason, maybe it's child care, maybe it has to do to health, but I don't think we can make the assumption it's because they don't want to work.
 A lot of places have increased the hourly rate, and that's a good thing. But I don't think that the Congress, more so than the Senate, would vote on things that they didn't see in their community, in their state, just to throw out money. We've never had a Congress throw out this kind of money for those type of things before.
 We've all known for years there's been an issue with child care and women being able to afford child care, to go to school, to go to work or whatever. That is a huge issue. So I'm glad, I don't have any kids, but I'm glad that they did address that to allow the women to get out there and work and help their family. And that's just one thing.
 I won't go into the senior citizens and social security and the medic the medicare But I think what what's coming out of congress is because those needs are here in this country It's not because they just want to throw out money for us to complain that they're they're giving away our money and I hope
 that people are taking advantage of it. And there will always be some people that know how to manipulate the system. It's like going into a store. They have the things on the clothing and other items to keep people from taking it, but they still manage to figure it out. And I don't think it's any different with the federal program.
 And we all should work, we, government, should all work to make sure that those dollars are used in the best possible way. Thank you. Thank you. So we are fortunate that we have 13 items before us right now. Is there any discussion on those 13? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. I want 12. I am arrested. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. I want 12. I am arrested. Tarina. Aye. Fronti. Aye. Thank you.
 wilkins hoffman beach pinones meeks mcneely bonnie items 1 through 11 12 eyes item number 12 9 eyes 3 nose and item 13 12 ice excellent the home stretch new business uh we'll go to planning and development committee alderwoman meets
 Is this laid over or no? Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. Yes, I'm so sorry. Yes, it is. Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Tarino. All right. Get ready, everybody. You're going to hear me talking for a few more minutes. Okay, Code and Regulation Committee, item number one. In ordinance establishing two-hour parking on the south side of East Jefferson Street from 40 feet east of Hall Street to 125 feet east of Hall Street.
 item number two an ordinance establishing handicap parking on the south side of elm street from 45 feet west of south court street to 85 feet west of south court street item number three an ordinance approving a restriction that traffic on anderson street be required to yield prior to entering the intersection with foster avenue item number four an ordinance approving a restriction that traffic on andrew street be required to yield prior to entering the intersection with bayless avenue
 item number five in ordinance approving the amendment to city of rockford code of ordinances section 16-149 trucks parking in certain designated areas item number six
 An ordinance approving a modification of special use permit 049-15 for a new 40 by 30 detached garage in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 127 North Henrietta Avenue, Ponds Family Properties applicant. Item number seven, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a gas station with convenience store in an auto repair shop in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 2837 11th Street.
 I'm number eight in ordinance approving a variation to resume reduce the required one or two parking spaces to 76 parking spaces in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6820 each state street. Number nine in ordinance approving a special use permit for a plan unit development consisting of a banquet hall for parties and weddings in a C1 limited office zoning district at 3114 North rockton Avenue.
 Item number 10, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by drink in conjunction with a wedding and events facility with outdoor seating in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 214 East State Street. Item 11, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 3003 11th Street.
 Item 12 in ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford liquor code section 3-5 for Parsons and premises not to be licensed paragraph 13 and lastly item 13 in Ordinance approving a special use permit for a crematory. Well, we're gonna that one got laid over 13 got laid over so items 1 through 12 I Place before you. Thank you. I
 Thank you. So we have 12 items before us as item 13 has been laid over Is there any discussion on those 12 items alderwoman McNeely? Thank you mayor item number nine I wonder if the alderman of that area could explain if they if they have spoke with business owners regarding that proposed business set alderman rose. Oh It is Okay
 All right. The alderman was just sharing with me what the alderman of the ward had said. So I have some concern regarding that. It's unfortunate that he's not here to address it. And that's it, Mayor. Thank you. Okay. Any other discussion on the 12 items before us? I'm here. This is April. Alderwoman Prunty, the floor is yours. I would just ask that you speak very loudly because we're having a difficult time hearing you.
 OKAY. THANK YOU. I JUST AM LOOKING AT NUMBER 11. AND I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE, I SAW IT EARLIER AND DIDN'T GET A CHANCE TO COMMENT, BUT I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT THEIR OPPORTUNITY TO DO WHAT THEY NEED TO DO IS EXTENDED UNTIL MAY 2023. FOR ITEM 11, THE NUMBER OF THOSE
 Director Meyer, my understanding is Alderwoman Prenti is asking, can they have until 2023 to come up with their conditions? Sure. Under the committee report that was approved by council, it included the conditions of approval. Condition number seven stated that removal of the non-conforming freestanding sign by May 31st, 2023. So yes. Okay.
 Alderwoman, the answer is yes. They have until May of 2023 to come into conformance. Thank you. Absolutely. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. No on 12. I have the rest. Vilgeman. Toomer. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. No on 12. I have the rest. Wilkins. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. That was no on 9 and 12. Aye.
 Thank you. Bonnie? Aye. Items 1 through 8, 12 ayes. Item number 9, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 10 and 11, 12 ayes. Item number 12, 8 ayes, 4 noes. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Logman.
 Thank you, Mayor. Item C1, an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property located at 1022 Benton Street and XXX Chamberlain Street to the Rock River Valley Blood Center for $3,000. Item number two...
 An ordinance approving the amended collaborative agreement between the City of Rockford Health and Human Services and Rosecrans Incorporated. Item number three, an ordinance approving the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership non-federal share waiver request in the amount of $82,264 for the grant period of July 1st, 2020 to June 30th, 2021.
 Item number four, an ordinance approving the early Head Start Care Special Needs Waiver Request of the requirement to serve at least 10% of children with identified special needs during the 2020-2021 program year. Item number five, an ordinance approving a general wage increase for non-represented employees.
 Item number six, an ordinance approving the purchase of the property located at XXX New Milford School Road in the city of Rockford, Winnebago County, Illinois, from Dorothy L. Evans Living Trust and Evans Family Trust for the sum of $232,200.
 Item number seven, an ordinance approving the lease agreement between the City of Rockford and B Money Appiaries LLC for the property located at 16XX North Lyford Road. That concludes Finance and Personnel, Mayor. Thank you. So we have seven items before you. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm seven. I am the rest. Logeman. I am the rest. Toomberg. No, I'm seven. I am the rest. Tarina. Prenti. I. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye.
 Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McMeely, Bonnie. Items 1 through 6, 12 ayes. Item number 7, 8 ayes, 4 noes. Excellent. Thank you. I'd love to say that I want a motion to adjourn because I really do. But Alderman Logerman has some very special news for us. But I would like to move into closed session or discuss pending and threatened litigation matters. Okay.
 We have a motion, do we have a second? We have a second, is there any discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Tunberg? Aye. Tarina? Prenti? Aye. Wilkins? Hoffman? Beach? Alderman Beach? Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonney? Aye. Chuaubais? Excellent, we're going to break for closed session.
 Okay, we are back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logerman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Tarina. Here. Prunty. Here. Wilkins. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Here.
 12 present. All right, we have a quorum. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a wonderful night.