o holy one of blessing god of all we gather before you on this night to offer our gratitude for the opportunity to engage in the practice of government we recognize the privilege that we have in being able to do so here in our city and in our country
 We pray that you, O God, will guide our leaders in the pursuit of justice and at the same time help us all to act with compassion toward our fellow human beings. With all due respect to the decorations of the season, tonight is the second night of Hanukkah, and candles are being kindled around the world by Jewish families.
 At this, the darkest time of the year, we remember and celebrate the importance of light. That light represents hope, safety, shelter, and warmth. It is known that a small single flame can brighten the largest of spaces. So too may we understand that our single actions, when we act to bring light into the darkness, we brighten the largest of spaces.
 Following the tragedy at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, it is as important as ever that we all hold fast to the ideals of bringing light into the darkness and that we not allow ourselves to be overcome by it. We pray, O God, that our leaders be those lights as they engage in the work of running our city. In being those lights, may they help to bring about hope
 safety, shelter and warmth for the citizens of Rockford and beyond. Our rabbis of old debated whether to light all eight candles on the first night and then decrease to one or to start with one and increase each night. The latter practice one out and the reason given was that one should always increase in holiness and never decrease.
 May this idea guide this meeting as well, and may all of our actions increase the holiness in our city and our world. Finally, we offer before you, O God, the sorrow of our nation at the passing of President George Herbert Walker Bush. May his example of service to our country inspire us all. May he rest in peace and let us say, Amen.
 of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Here. Eleven present.
 Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Next up, I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on November 19, 2018. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say yes. Those opposed say no. All right.
 Motion passes. Next, I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on November 26, 2018. Any discussion? Thank you. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Thank you. Motion passes.
 Next up, we have one proclamation this evening for Drunk and Drugged Driving Prevention Month, and I believe we have Sergeant Dave Nicosia with us. I see the chief didn't show up on time, so he's going to leave it all up to you tonight.
 Whereas motor vehicle crashes killed 1,090 people in Illinois during 2017, and hundreds of those deaths involved driver impaired by alcohol and or drugs. And whereas the December holiday season is traditionally one of the most deadly times of the year for impaired driving. And whereas for thousands of families across the state and the nation, holidays are a time to remember loved ones lost.
 And whereas organizations are joined together with the Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over and other campaigns that foster public awareness of the dangers of impaired driving and anti-impaired driving law enforcement efforts. And whereas the City of Rockford is a proud partner with the Illinois Department of Transportation's Division of Traffic Safety and other traffic safety groups in that effort to make our roads and streets safer.
 Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of December 2018 to be Drunk and Drug Driving Prevention Month. Sergeant, would you like to share a few words?
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say that drunk or impaired driving affects all of us, all of our families, our community, and we really appreciate the support from the city, and it's just another example of how Rockford pulls together in the community. We'll do our part with enforcement, and every impaired driver we can get off the road is a potential life saved. So we just thank you for your partnership with us, and we'll do all we can to help. Thank you.
 Next up, we have petitions and communications. Alderman Rose for planning and development. Thank you, Your Honor. We have a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, housing and program manager, regarding the 2019 annual action plan, community development block grant, home investment partnership emergency solutions grant programs referred to planning and development committee.
 Item number two is our memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the Rockford Convention and Visitors Bureau. RACVB quarterly report for fiscal year 2019, quarter one, July through September of 2018, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have Code and Regulation and Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. There are two items. Number one, under B.
 A memorandum from Assistant City Attorney Vaughn regarding the prioritization request for 3700 Brookview Road. And number two, a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Engineer Operation Manager, regarding the Jova Witness Convention and parking fee waiver request. Both of these will be referred to Cozen Riggs. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Next up, we have Alderman Kirby for Finance and Personnel.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have three items tonight. The first is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, our Engineering Operations Manager, regarding a lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Joseph James Partners for use of parking spaces in the 303 North Main Street parking deck.
 Item number two is a memorandum from Lisa Warren interim head start director regarding an application for federal grant funds for the annual continuation of head start and early head start services for April 1 2019 through March 31 2020
 And item number three is a memorandum from Finance Director Kerry Haggerty regarding a modification to the water billing ordinance. Those three items will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Thank you, Alderman Hervey. Next up, we have our public speakers, to which we have three this evening. Just want to remind each of the public speakers that you will have three minutes to speak, and there's microphones on both of the back ends of the horseshoe. Our first public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Jonah, the fourth chapter, the second verse, it says, I know that thou art a gracious and compassionate God,
 What I want to speak about tonight, second chance grace. Jonah is so full of good news that we could end today's study right here and go away blessed.
 I love what this says. When you repent, God's heart will melt because he loves you so much. He stands ready to shift his wrath to mercy. All of us need that. We need a God who will relent when we repent. The problem is that we are so unlike God. The story of Jonah would be a lot easier to understand if it ended here. But Jonah still hated the Nehemiah's. So when God brought revival, Jonah powed it. Like I said, Jonah got mad because his second shot
 hit the mark he asked God to take him if I were God I would have accommodated the boy by now but I gracious God prepare an object lesson for Jonah he said Jonah it's a little hot outside today isn't it how about a little shade please notice what we got here the wind obey God the sea obey God the sailors obey God the fish obey God the neophytes obey God this plant obey God and soon a worm is going to obey God but we got problems with the preacher wait a minute
 I want to know how the story ends. I want to know what my man Jonah did. Why does the story end here? Because God is asking us what he asked Jonah. What are you going to do with my grace and compassion? If you have ever strayed from the will of God and come back, if God has ever given you a second chance, what are you going to do with it? And if someone you see out of the reach of God.
 And would you try to bring him or her back like God brought you back? See, we don't deserve what we have, but God in his grace has appointed circumstances that have transformed my life. That means you and I get what Jonah gets, which is a second chance, a third chance, a fourth chance, a hundredth chance. Let's not misuse his grace.
 Think about it. God would love to restore you, to restore your family, to bless you and your community. All you have to do is turn back to him. I also have been wanting to tell my great great niece that's in the United States Air Force and my brother-in-law who's a decorated Vietnam veteran for a long time. I don't like you, I love you and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday my good friends and I wish you many more and God bless you and your family. And while I'm talking about birthday, I want to say happy birthday to myself. Happy birthday
 Happy birthday to me Happy birthday dear Yousef Happy birthday to me And I wish myself many more Come tomorrow by the grace of God I'll be 76 years old Thank you for allowing me to speak So Prophet Yousef If I look that good at 76 I'm doing something right So we here at City Council Don't like you We love you And uh
 We hope that you have a very happy and wonderful and healthy birthday. So thank you for all that you do. And to know, I was going to make Alderman sing, but you already sang happy birthday to yourself, so they all got off. All right, next up, if you can top that, it is next up we have Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the women of Rockville, Illinois. I want to talk about white privilege. First off, I want to thank the Republican Party for backing the Democratic caucus and their choice of picking Mary Hirosh for the state's attorney's office. I want to go further by saying we have our Democratic Party is divided into three different groups.
 We have the union, the Democratic Union, then we have Mayor McNamara and his group, and then we have us, the have-nots. Our have-nots have been taken, our votes have been taken advantage of. This past weekend, I want to thank Jake Costanza. We had 38 people to show up that wanted to work for a project. The name of the event is Rebuild Rockwood, aimed to diversify the workforce where they would be hiring
 felons and I can tell it to be hiring 20 people out of that. But I want to go a little bit further on something personal with the mayor and the city. When we as a community, a precinct committeeman and we come to you, we bring to you the concerns and the information that the peoples have. But if our concerns, if we tell you our concerns and you use that against us,
 then that's defeating the purpose. That's why the people don't like to bring what their concerns are. I'm going to use for example myself. I was charged with disorderly conduct by a white police officer, a white woman carrying the stay in my building, and by a white manager. This is not the first time, but this is the third time that this happened.
 I uh we was going to have a court date this here month. What bothered me is the fact that uh we was I was told by the city they put a clamp to try to uh try to uh suppress suppress my movement. They also uh call uh
 Orange Carter from Rockford Housing Authority and try to put a ban on what I do in the community. That was definitely a no-no. So I wanted to go to court and we had, I had the state's attorney that was going to be my witness. I had the state representative John Maurice West there. J.P. Prishner was going to send a representative. Had over 50 people that
 speak in my behalf. But lo and behold, I get a letter this here weekend from the state's attorney's office saying that the charges was dropped. The charges was bogus in the first place, but I wanted to go to court to go after the white privilege. Why is Karen allowed to harass and threaten folks?
 and I build and get away with it. And why is it that she can harass me at my function, but we have other functions in the building, she able to get away with it? Why is it always a white police officer that's on their side and can't, why do they send a minority officer? If you wanna build a relationship with the community, don't attack the person that's representing the community that wanna work with you all. If I'm talking about domestic violence, I'm bringing you what the people's concerns are about domestic violence.
 Thank you, Mr. President. We need to have a meeting. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mustafa Abdel. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for giving me 15 minutes to speak regarding community. Oh, it's 15 or three minutes. Sorry. I think I, yeah, my point is that I think I didn't read my email. So I need more communication, and I need words to check the time. So give me my words.
 I think we need communication, we need tools. This is my point for my message. We need communication, we need tools. Now I have the tool, I have the communication. So, thank you very much. My name is Mustafa Abdul. I am a math and social studies teacher at Lincoln Middle School. And by the way, talking about the emails I sent you today, 6.29 a.m. email just to use myself and test our communication. So, while I am teaching social studies,
 I teach my students the Constitution. So I love the statement, we the people. I love this word. This word has magic. And when I say we the people, I believe that the pronoun we, it will not be workable if there is no communication. If there is no communication, the statement will not be we the people. It will be he the people, she the people, they the people. If you want we the people workable, right? We need more communication.
 وكي يكون المدرسة أكثر مهتمة، يجب أن نصنع، نتطور ونزيل المشاريع وما هو الطريق الواضح لنفعل ذلك بأس من صنع المشاريع المجتمعية؟
 اليوم أنا هنا لأطلب منكم وأن أدعوكم أهل المدينة والأموال لتدعم وإعطاء خلق مجموعة التعاون المجتمعية نحن الناس كمؤسسة ركفورديون نعتقد أنه مهم أن يكون لدينا علاقة ممتازة معكم كمدينة المدينة شكراً جزيلاً شكراً في التالي لدينا رابط مجموعة جديدة ونبدأ بمجموعة مدينة المدينة ومدينة التحكم والتحكم شكراً سيد المدينة
 تحديد الموضوعات المتحدة بـ 1. يترجم الموضوع أن يستمر الموضوع في تحديد تحديد مقاومة المنزل لتحديد مقاومة المنزل للمنزل المتحدة ومعالجة المنزل مع المساعدة في موضوع 1418 و 1422 موجودة في الموضوع 2. يترجم الموضوع أن يستمر الموضوع في تحديد تحديد مقاومة المنزل
 لإزالة المزيد من المواد المسمية من 2 إلى 5 وإزالة المزيد من المواد المسمية من 6 إلى 6.75 ساعة في مدينة المتحدة المتحدة في مدينة 930 في بوليفاردسي بريف السعودية
 ترمز المجتمع على إغلاق المختارات لتزويد المزيد من المصطلحات المتساوي للبناء المستخدم من 4725 مكتباً إلى 8240 مكتباً في مدينة رزقية عائلة روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحانية روحان
 رقم 4. تقوم المجتمع بإقلاع مناسبة للمدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة المدينة الم
 5. ترمز المجتمع على إعادة إدخال محل لعبارة الطباق لتحضير المحل لعبارة الطباق في مجتمع محل لعبارة الطباق في مدينة رياضي مدينة رياضي في 1868 في ريد فارم رود.
 8. تقوم المجتمع بإعادة إعادة تحديد المستوى التبارك والتبارك للتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى التبارك والتحديد من مكان مستوى
 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approved the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in the c2 lemon commercial zoning district at 641 south perryville road subject to conditions number eight is the committee recommends sustaining liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in a one and excuse me i1 light industrial zoning district
 And at I2, general and district zoning at 2233, Kiswahki Street and 22XX Star Street, subject to conditions. Number nine, we've been asked by staff to lay over. Number ten is a committee report approved with a right of way vacation request at 3108 Auburn Street and 13XX Russell Street.
 The legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance and I think that is all. Thank you, your honor. Alderman Beach, I think number nine, there was aldermen who were going to lay it over. I'm sorry. You just have to read the end so that if an alderman would like to lay it over, they can. Then let's go back to number nine then. And then I'm understanding that there's some that may want to lay this over for a week.
 If that's true, I need to have someone make a motion to that effect. Once you read it in, they can make that motion. All right. Committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance, Chapter 11, Human Rights, and the legal director will occur whatever ordinance is necessary. I have a motion and a second. We have a motion and a second. Automatically laid over. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. For how long? It was...
 To the upcoming committee meeting. Okay, upcoming committee meeting. All right, so that's a late. I'm sorry, to the next council meeting. Thank you. So two weeks, 17th. So we have nine items before us, one through eight, and item number 10. Is there any discussion on the nine items that are before you? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to, again, voice a concern on number five, the banquet hall.
 which is We're providing a liquor license and supporting an establishment that will there's a tax-free body that will directly compete with Several banquet halls that are privately owned that do not have that advantage in the area. I think I'm not so sure that this is a good idea. I will be opposed to it For that reason. Thank you. Thank you. All right alderman frosty. Do you have your hand up? I
 I just want to speak in favor, you know, Alderman Tumor is always saying this isn't his ward, his ward, the third ward for entertainment. Number six is...
 uh sousay's lounge modification uh merging with the billy next door and um mr gessner is here tonight but he's he's been a uh an advocate and a i don't know why but a big uh follower of city hall over the years and coming to all of our meetings uh and i appreciate that i guess but it is in my ward and i have i have been there many times though they host a number of
 fundraisers and other activities there and I have had the food from the place he's shutting down and I hope I wish him the best of luck with the merger with that with the with the new business of takeouts and and his sous-sais lounge best of luck to you sir thank you no sorry alderman Hervey and now just keep moving around thank you your honor I wanted to address in conjunction with alderman Durkee item 5 and some of the concerns we discussed about government bodies
 which do operate tax-free getting into the business of running competing private sector businesses such as the banquet hall this one concerns me more because of where it is anybody that wants to bring a large banquet hall to the west side of rockford call me any park district facility you want we'll try to make it happen but we've been doing this for a number of years you know we rent out the new um
 Sports facility and that can be used for private entities and banquets and other things have been been held there So I think it's something that has happened and is going to happen all the time But I would encourage in this case for maybe the Park District and some of those individuals who run those facilities to get together and talk about that and
 I think people should be able to have the choices of where they might want to go. I hear it's a beautiful facility and was built with some private money. So I would hate to just say, no, you can't do it and see that facility go to waste or be underutilized and become a cost burden. But I think it's something that should be discussed between the parties.
 park district city county any of us that have Space that is tax-free that could be used to compete with private industry. Thank you. Thank you any other discussion Alderman Quinones Yes, I want a question on all the men Durkee's Ward over there with this would they qualify for gaming machines this location would they qualify for gaming? I believe I
 I'm going to ask liquor, but I believe my understanding is that if you have the liquor license, you do qualify for gaming. I also know, for example, that...
 In my discussions with the Park District, I recently asked them, will they have gaming at the sports factory, for example. They have a liquor license operated by Ali Oop there. That's also Prairie Street Brewing Company. And they stated that they will not be having gaming at that facility. So I don't have an answer, but I believe the legal answer is they could have it with a liquor license. But I'm unaware, Alderman, if they will have it.
 Because they have proven to have facilities but also not have gaming at those, like Aliu, for example. Well, if they do, Mayor, they would have to go with the 50-50, the food, like the other— They would have to meet all of our city's requirements.
 alderman frost thank you i would speak up in favor of this i have had the privilege of going there once for an event since it's open and uh alderman hervey's right there was some donors that gave some private money to build this in lieu of a country club and i think it's important to know that uh the primary function of this building
 is to serve for golf events. And so when Aldine has a golf event and they have, whether it be a steak dinner afterward or some event afterward, that they have the space to utilize that.
 akin to i guess the sports factory being another park district building with having alley open uh through prairie street in there this is very similar it's not as if the part i don't believe the part is running and operating the food source on this i believe it's al cash giovanni from uh from giovanni's so there's some sort of private
 Public partnership that's that's providing that and obviously those those revenues would be taxable Thank you to your point I think it and you may know this more than I but I believe they also put in money for the equipment kitchen equipment and things of that nature other Discussion there's nine items before you one through eight and number ten. I just have a question here Alderman Beach so back at the same item and
 Is that the Rockford Park District that's applying for the license? Yes. Or okay. Thank you See no further discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? No Five yes. Yeah, no on five I on the rest Tuber Herbie Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman
 Rose? Aye. Beach? No on five and seven. Aye on the rest. Quinones? No on five. McNeely? Item one, 11 ayes, one no. Items two, three, four, 12 ayes. Item number five, eight ayes, four nos. Item six, 12 ayes. Item seven, 11 ayes, one no. Item eight and 10, 12 ayes. Excellent. All the items passed. Next up we have finance and personnel, Alderman Hervey. Thank you, your honor.
 We have eight items tonight. Item number one is committee report recommending approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,032,567.11, as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting of November 26, 2018. Item two is the committee recommending approval of the early head start request for
 $344,957.39. That's for the non-federal share for the grant period April 1, 2018 to July 31, 2018.
 uh item three committee recommending approval of the offer for the purchase and sale of the vacant city-owned lot at 2648 11th street from jennifer thompson in the amount of seven thousand fifty dollars
 Item 4 is a committee report recommending approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Park District for the records management system Project that's being managed and financed by the city of Rockford. The agreement was approved by the Park District on November 6 2018 item 5 is committee recommending approval of the amendment to strike section 5 dash 7 6
 And that is the term in the hotel motel tourism tax division in the city of Rockford code of ordinances. Per the memo and edits from the finance director, staff recommends extending the tax without a sunset. Item six is a committee, I'm sorry, actually this one is,
 No, it's not laid over. I'm sorry. It's Committee Report recommending approval of the 2019-2023 Capital Improvement Program. Item 7 is the Committee recommending approval of the City of Rockford Domestic Violence Policy.
 Item 8 is the City-State Agreement for West 8th Street Phase 2 Agreement. And this is an amendment between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for US Business Route 20, West 8th Street, from Kilburn Avenue to Bayless Avenue. Primary function of the amendment serves as a financial reconciliation for IDOT's contribution to the land acquisition for West 8th Phases 1 and 2.
 it was determined that IDOT needed to provide additional funding in order to meet their 75% payment obligation for all of the acquisition. The 25% match for this has been sales tax. And with those items where appropriate, the legal director is to prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So we have eight items before us this evening. Eight items before us. Is there discussion on the eight items? Alderman Logeman.
 I would just like to read an amendment on behalf of alderman beck that has already been provided via memorandum I move to amend the item under roman numeral 5 new committee reports c finance and personnel committee for item 6 the 2019 the 2023 capital improvement program to reflect the following change
 Reallocation of $1 million from the neighborhood program to pay for improvements to Charles Street from 23rd Avenue to Parkside Drive, which is currently the highest priority unprogrammed arterial roadway in the 10-year arterial and collector street plan. This reallocation is for fiscal year 2019. Fiscal year 2020 to 2023 will remain unchanged. Second. Second.
 So there's a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? We're going to just take this Item 6 amendment before we do the other discussion, if you don't mind, just so that we're focusing on just this as opposed to bouncing around. So there's a motion and a second on this amendment. Is there discussion on this amendment? I'm going to go. Actually, I'll go this way since I saw Alderman McNeely's hand up first. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Okay.
 I'm not sure why we're separating Charles Street out of so many other streets. Over the years, I certainly have had streets, one particular street that's in Alderman Herbie's ward that I asked for a similar type consideration. So perhaps Public Works or the administration can explain to me why this is necessary.
 So I can one understand this alderman Beck's amendment to I'll have Mr. Hankins describe why that one was chosen.
 Sure. The Charles Street was chosen by this amendment because on our 10-year arterial and collector street plan that we provided the council, it was the highest priority, meaning it was the worst condition street with the most amount of traffic traveling on it based on our evaluations and based on the pavement condition index. It's the section between 23rd Avenue and Parkside Drive. Thank you. Then there was Alderman Beach.
 I find it very interesting that last week when we were offering our opinions on the CIP program, that I expressed concern that Charles Street has left off again, and we didn't really know when that was coming, and to find now this week an amendment that wants to pull a million dollars out of our neighborhood programs and put it on Charles Street. I appreciate that thought, but I am saying this.
 If we really know this is a bad street, a bad arterial, how come it hasn't been put on our schedule two or three years ago moving forward to be done? That's what I don't understand. And to come here and want to take it out of the neighborhood programs that affects every alderman around this horseshoe, it's a problem while I'd like to have it passed.
 It'd be great for Charles Street. It'd be great for the people that bump their way down that street. But I don't understand what's being proposed tonight here. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Keller. Oh, one second. There you go. Hold on. I don't know how much Alderman Beck paid you to throw you to the lion's den on this. I just read it. Oh, okay. He had to pay you something.
 I too feel that we have citywide streets for arteriores and collectors that we set aside dollars for. So if it's such a high priority, then that's where it should be. That would amount to over $70,000 from each of us from our wards, which I have quite a few streets that I could classify the same as Charles Street.
 So I don't think that this amendment is warranted, and it's unfair to the other 13 aldermen. Thank you. Next up.
 alderman herb thank your honor this kind of raises the the point i talked about a little bit last week um and that is cannibalizing the the cip for whatever purpose even if we're moving money from one place to the other there's not enough money in the cip to take care of our capital road roadway and and other projects the cip doesn't just fix streets i think we have to remember alpine dam
 Is in the cip for the next five years three three together. We'll split the difference. Um, So you've got alpine dam, which is a hugely expensive project, but certainly one that you can't allow to fail Water takes care of itself, but neighborhood drainage Drainage we've got how many box culverts that we're working on that are close to failure. We just can't afford um
 there's just not enough money in the cip that's just a good way to put it but to take money from the neighborhood program in particular i'm wondering if alderman beck did this to say okay that's what you don't want now tell me where you do want to take it um it also goes to my point i had asked and i know uh
 between Director Stockman and Director Hinkins, they are doing as much as they can to predict and spread this out. But I think we need to go back to a CIP that has specific projects for a full five-year period. I understand we got away from it because every time you have to change something, people would have a fit.
 but i think we can keep stressing that it's not set in stone and if another project comes up that's more important we have to do it but to alderman beach's point we need to see where some of our projects are i don't want to argue about morgan street but it was supposed to be done in three parts and the third part is still sitting there you know while the first part um already has the um
 crack ceiling done so it's almost like okay this one has its first line of failure or breaks and we haven't even gotten to the last part yet so I do think we need to predict or list projects further out in the CIP and that includes putting the money with them and if we have to make changes they will be transparent and sometimes we have to be mature enough to understand that one of our projects might get pushed back and
 in favor of something that carries a higher need. Last thing I want to mention is when we mention Charles Street and we say it's the one that's in the worst condition based on the amount of traffic, I want to ask that we be very careful with that amount of traffic requirement. The west side of Rockford is one third the side of the east side. I'm just saying east and west of the river because it's a size, geographic, not in terms of value.
 But if we look at the amount of traffic, we don't have most of the major arterials that you do on the east side. That's a function of size, it's a function of placement with I-90, and it's a function of population.
 But part of that usage on those roadways is because we don't have some of the amenities on the west side of Rockford. So it's kind of like I get punished because I have to drive out there to do shopping and take care of many essential needs. But at the same time, my roadways don't get used, so they're not as high of a priority. What is an arterial or a collector in more populous parts of the city,
 is just a regular street in our less populous areas, but they are still important. That's what people have to use to get to the major roadways. So I want to just ask that we be real careful when we look at traffic counts, because we'll always lose if that's the case. We just don't have, with the exception of the Morgan Street Bridge.
 Thank you. Alderman Frost, and then I'll jump back over. I don't want to pick on Alderman Hervey, but I can think of the Morgan Street Bridge, North Main, South Main, and West State that are all on the west side of the river that have really taken up a lion's share of our funding. I don't want to pick on her. State highway funding. And city, I might add, and plenty of city funds. I would just steer clear of those right now. Okay.
 But I do agree with all of them and Herbie, and I am disagreeing with this motion because
 Each and every one of the Alderman here can, I'm sure every year when you're making your decisions on what roads need to get done, you don't get through your list quick enough before you run out of money. And it's not as if we have a million dollar fund per award per year. The amount of money we have is so nominal that in fact,
 I find myself forced to pave half of a road or a quarter of a road or an intersection just to make do on a road that really needs a lot of work. So I would be – and again, this has nothing to do with the amendment that I –
 Spoke of last week with respect to the potholes. This is strictly this amendment strictly takes it a million dollars Across the board out of the neighborhood funds and I don't think that's fair to the alderman At all because we we are with the money with the limited money that we're given were it's a it's a task every year to Figure out what what what projects and what roads you're gonna work on. Thank you thus far with the comments Everyone's adding the votes that this will not pass I
 But Alderman Rush. Just like what you said, it's the right project, but it's the wrong funding source. So it's one of those things that, you know, I drive Charles every single day. It is in bad shape. But obviously you're not going to take a million dollars from that fund. So I won't be supporting it. But it does need to get done at some point. Okay. So we have a motion and a second on an amendment from Alderman Beck. Okay.
 Is there any further discussion on that motion? Thank you, mr. Mayor final question Given the request for the million for Charles Street. That's in addition to the amount that's going to the potholes It's in the addition to the mountain yeah, because we're the staff was recommending that money be taken and
 For potholes, so are those two items that would be a reduction in the amount of money that's coming from the awards? So the pothole amount would not be coming from money from the awards. The amendment that's before us this evening would be. And when I say it before us this evening right now, before us from alderman back.
 I just want to say, Mr. Mayor, that I can't support this. I know that throughout the city there are a number of roads that need repair. I drive Charles Street as well. Certainly...
 I could pick out some streets that have a lot of traffic on it in my ward and given what Auderman Hervey said and I've said this for years now the way we define streets for the west side
 And the east side, there's no comparison there, but they're just as vital and main arterials for my area as some of the main arterials are for the east side. So I hope that we can address Charles Street, but I can't see taking that large amount out. Understood. Thank you. Any further discussion on the amendment? No.
 We are officially at the point of beating the dead horse. I can just do a voice vote on this. All those in favor of the amendment before you to take $1 million from the neighborhood program to place it to Charles Street, say aye. Those who are opposed to this amendment, please state aye.
 All right, so if Alderman Beck is sick and at home watching, he understands that amendment failed. Next up, we have eight items still before us, one through eight. Is there any discussion on the items one through eight?
 We again, we have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those eight items before us alderman hervey? Just a question is alderman frost's amendment from last week included in in this vote alderman frost is Amendment is going to be referred and discussed on monday. I believe that committee meeting So is this one is this?
 CIP stands it removes the 1.4 million from the CIP and transfers to the general fund Mr. Hankins you want to address this the current CIP as presented to counsel for vote tonight includes 1.3 million dollars this year of using MFT funds to pay for pothole patching in the CIP and 1.4 million dollars in years 2020 through 23
 Okay, I'm sorry. I shouldn't say it that way. It doesn't take money out. It just uses the CIP for pothole patching where previously that 1.3 and 1.4 million came out of the general fund. Last year, your answer is yes, you are correct, except for last year, obviously the one point we utilized CIP for pothole last year.
 Or this year, I guess we're in this year. The year that we're in, yes. Last time we did this. And I have to admit, I was asleep at the wheel when that one happened. I don't know why I didn't catch that. Could have been the $10.2 million deficit we were facing. No, $87 million isn't even phasing me on this one, so I don't think it was too. Any discussion on the eight items before us? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye.
 Toomer? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? No. On all? No, I'm sorry, no on item 6. Aye on item 6, that was a strong no. And aye on the remainder. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? No on 6, aye on the remainder. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? McNeely? Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12 ayes. Item number 6, 10 ayes, 2 noes, 7 and 8, 12 ayes.
 Thank you. And I would just like to say a capital improvement plan takes a tremendous amount of staff time and a lot of your time as aldermen through this. So I want to make sure I thank Mr. Hankins, Mr. Stockman and Miss Peacock for the amount of time that they have put into this, as well as so many other others on your team. I know put the time into it. So thank you.
 Next up, we have officers reports. The only item I have before me is I just want to congratulate Alderman Hervey and Alderman Thompson Kelly. Yesterday at the NAACP annual banquet, they won a well-deserved community service award. And I just want to say we certainly appreciate you and really appreciate your ardent advocacy for the city. Thank you.
 other officers reports alderman beach thank your honor of this past week was the celebration of life for Joe Marino he spoke about him last week but I'd like to just make a comment or two simply because you provided a proclamation for that service and I want to thank you publicly for doing that to family appreciate it was well said and they'll treasure that Joe's been the talk of the town
 He's still the talk of the town. And in my opinion, to sum it up, a gentleman with a backbone of steel wrapped in velvet. He will be missed. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, for that acknowledgement. I do appreciate the acknowledge that NAACP has given Benita and I. I was very honored today.
 uh... but i wanna bring something up there and i think it's very important i don't know how many uh... has pat privilege of working with clarence picks uh... in this community uh... i work with clearance with the park district at washington park and many programs that he offered in this community and many children that he had a great impact on their lives his family is now asking
 the park to be dedicated to Clarence Hicks Memorial Sports Park and they're asking for the support of this community December the 11th at 5 p.m. at the Rockford Park District's board meeting and I wanted to make sure that I announced that because I for one had the privilege of working with him and I think it would be a great honor to have this park named after him thank you all
 Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to mention the passing of President George Herbert Walker Bush. I think he passed away on Saturday. I don't know if it was Friday night or Saturday. Regardless of whether he was Democrat or Republican, I think anyone who serves our country as a president deserves respect. It is a huge and often thankless job, despite the White House and Air Force One.
 what I respected most about him was his family presence. If you just listen to his grandkids and his children, his sons and daughter talk about him, it is with not just true love for a parent, but respect. And I think he instilled that,
 feeling of duty and love of country in his family. Again, I think we can disagree on politics about something, but you have to respect the person and the character he brought to the office. If you look at the people who spoke about him and the people who called him their friend, not just their president or fellow politician, there was Barack Obama, there was Bill Clinton.
 All of them because of the character that he displayed and truly had within him. So I would ask if we would take ask if we could take a moment of silence to honor George Herbert Walker Bush. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. Did you have other officers reports? No, no. Alderman Frost, do you have your hand up? I just want to comment on the passing of President Bush.
 I was a senior in college and I got to come home to work on the advance staff of Vice President Bush when he came to Rockford in September of 1988. And he traveled to Maria's restaurant, and I'll never forget it, he stayed out at the clock tower.
 And I got a chance to talk to him about three different times that weekend. And it was insistent that he had an exercise bike in his room to get a little workout in while he was in Rockford before his plane left to go to Pennsylvania the next day. And he was such a kind, humble man that was running for president. And I'll just never forget the character he had and then to watch him win the presidency and see one thing about
 President Bush was his character never changed from the moment that I met him. I'm sure it was that way throughout his life, throughout his entire life, both in the presidency and when he left the presidency. So thank you. Great talk. Any other?
 Alderman Logeman. I just wanted to bring it to attention the Auburn High School JROTC Military ball, it's not until March 16th, but This is a great program in RPS 205 and
 I think it was advertised on our desks last year, Auburn JROTC. It's the only JROTC program in RPS 205. They do a lot for the students of Auburn High School and a lot in our community too. So I'll be hoping to see you, and I'll bring it up again, at the Auburn High School JROTC Military Ball. Not for a while yet, March 16th. Thank you, Mayor. Can you email that out to all of us as well? Yep.
 Yep. I was fearful when you had your hand up that you had another amendment. Alderman Toomber. Thank you, Mayor, and thank goodness for that, that that wasn't the case. I would be remiss to mention, along with Alderman Logerman and that, with the junior ROTC program at Auburn, congratulations to my nephew, who just got a congressional recommendation. He is a
 a graduate soon to be graduate of that program and uh congressional recommendation to be accepted to the air force academy uh so a good auburn uh soon to be graduate and uh also a congratulations to uh
 Mark and Emily Christensen, who opened up the Norwegian up at the North End, which is on the comeback, the area up there. And I know I have help from other aldermen, Alderman Rose, Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly, and Alderman Beck.
 in assisting in that area as well mayor you you were up there this weekend and so was mayor Morrissey and myself and it is a is it just it is bringing vibrancy to the area up there and I think it's going to be a great success and we have a theater opening up there soon I think that's going to be a great success as well and I
 Just want to say thank you to everyone for the support of that area. It is making a comeback. So stay tuned. Thanks. If any of you were wondering what that noise you heard between around 10.15 in the morning to about 12.30, 12.45 over in that area, that was my son. He was screaming and crying the entire time that we were at the Norwegian, like the entire time. He probably saw me.
 But they do have a children's section, which is one of the few restaurants I've seen in our community that has a children's section. It just wasn't his day. Any other officers' reports? All right. Moving right along. Next up, we have appointments laid over. The board appointment for Ms. Snyder still remains laid over until the next city council meeting after the 5th, which would be the 17th. Next up, I am going to call on Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Our legal director has requested a brief.
 closed session so i'd like to make that motion right now second we have a motion a second to any discussion seeing no discussion uh clerk will you please call the roll for closed session turkey logeman tunberg frost hervey urbans thompson kelly hoffman rose sure beach kinones mcneely we uh
 12 eyes. We have 12 eyes. Just want to clarify that we're going to close session to discuss pending litigation. Thank you. So we are enthusiastically going into session and we'll return shortly. Irving here. Irvins here. Thompson Kelly Hoffman here. Rose Beach. Known as McNeely Frost here. Logan here. 11.
 Excellent. So we have a quorum back into open session. Alderman Beach for Code and Regulation Committee under motions and resolutions. Your Honor, my mind was on another item here. Oh, so where at? Please forgive me. You're fine. Under motions and resolutions B, we have a resolution for the settlement of Mildred Joan versus City of Rockford case number...
 2 0 1 5 L 1 8 3 in the amount of $15,000 like to place it up for passage tonight. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the item that you have before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Bogeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Durkee. Aye. Cook.
 12 eyes excellent item passes next up we have finance and personnel committee under motions and resolutions alderman hervey Thank you your honor under um letter c
 Item number one is an award of non-competitive bid for lieutenant rank testing to industrial organizational solutions incorporated of Oak Brook, Illinois in the amount of $27,925 the contract duration is one year the funding source is the Board of Fire and Police Commission budget and
 Item two is an award of an engineering agreement. This is for Alpine Dam rehabilitation design to H in TV corporation of Chicago, Illinois in the amount of 469,000 $894 the funding sources sales tax and
 And item three is an award of a contract to Yale box for the Yale box covert replacement inspection to will it Hoffman and associates of Rockford in the amount of 33,000 $688 and 29 cents the funding source is sales tax and I placed those three items up for passage Excellent. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? I
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logerman. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McMeeley. 12 ayes. Excellent. All of those items passed. Next up, we have new business, and under new business, we have Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Beach. Thank your honor. Number one.
 In ordinance approving a special use permit for an auto repair shop and tire service with towing at 1418 and 1422 Broadway. Number two, in ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a non-for-profit performing arts center at 1414 North Main Street. Number three, in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a banquet hall
 at 1868 green farm read farm road number four an ordinance approving the modification of an existing Tavern and restaurant into an adjacent 1200 square foot tenant space at the address of five eight five one and five eight five five Forest Hills Road number five and Lawrence approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink conjunction with a restaurant located at 641 South Perryville Road
 Number six, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 2233 Kishwaukee and 22XX Star Street. Number seven, an ordinance approving the amendments of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance. Excuse me. That's been laid over. Yes. All right.
 Number eight, in order to approve the right-of-way vacation request for 3108 Auburn Street slash 13XX Russell Street. All these are up for passage tonight, Your Honor. Excellent. So we have seven items before you this evening, items one through six. And item number eight, is there any discussion on those seven items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm three. Aye. Logerman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye.
 Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose? Aye. Beach? No on three and five and aye on the rest. Quinones? No on three and aye on the rest. McNeely? Items 1, 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 10, sorry, 9 ayes, 3 nos. Item 4, 12 ayes. Item 5, 11 ayes, 1 no. 6 and 8 are 12 ayes.
 Those items pass next up we have finance and personnel committee with alderman Hervey. Thank you your honor under items letter C item number one is an ordinance approving the head start early head start request for a waiver of 344 thousand nine hundred fifty seven dollars and thirty nine cents that is for the non-federal share for the grant period of April 1 2018 to July 31st 2018
 Item 2 is an ordinance approving the offer for purchase and sale of a city-owned vacant lot located at 2648 11th Street from Jennifer Thompson in the amount of $7,050. Item 3 is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Park District for the records management system
 project being managed and financed by the city of Rockford the agreement was approved by the Rockford Park District on November 6 2018 item 4 is an ordinance approving the amendment to strike section 5-7 6 term in the hotel motel tourism tax division in the city of Rockford code of ordinances and
 Item five is an ordinance approving the City of Rockford domestic violence policy. Item six is an ordinance approving the city state agreement. This is for the West State Street phase two agreement amendment between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for US Business Route 20, West State Street from Kilburn Avenue to Bayless Avenue. And I place those six items up for passage.
 Excellent. Thank you. So we have six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Items 1, 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 4, 5, and 6, 12 ayes.
 Excellent. So all of those items passed. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a wonderful night.