Good evening. Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, December 2nd, 2024. This evening, we are fortunate that we have Ann Rundle at the Baha'i Center of Rockford to provide us with an invocation. Dear friends, your efforts must be lofty. Exert your... Selves with heart and soul so that perchance through your efforts the light of universal peace may shine and this darkness of estrangement and enmity may be dispelled from amongst men. That all men may become as one family and consort together in love and kindness. That the East may assist the West and the West give help to the East, for all are inhabitants of one planet, the people of one original native land, and the flocks of one shepherd. Thank you for all you do. I pledge allegiance to the states of America. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Here. Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey 11 present excellent. We have a quorum this evening We have no proclamations by special request of former mayor Morrissey. We're gonna do public speakers first I But I want to do public speakers first. We have a bunch of young kids before we do the presentation here. So our first public speaker this evening, and I'll remind all of our public speakers, you have three minutes on the microphone. There's a microphone on the back left as well as the back right of council chambers. When you hear an alarm go off, I'd ask that you close up your comments. If for some reason it doesn't work, I'll ask that you close up your comments. And our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Youssef. Prophet, before you begin speaking this evening, I'm not counting this time against you, but I got to just tell you, I don't like you, I love you, and I hope this week you have a happy birthday. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I love you back. With that, you can... Good... No, no, no. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Hosea, the fourth chapter, the sixth verse, it says, My people perish for lack of knowledge, because you have rejected knowledge. What I want to speak about tonight, you reap what you sow. Consider Galatians 6, chapter 8 to the 9th verse. A few minutes with me. For the one who sows to his own flesh shall from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit shall from the spirit reap eternal life. And let us not lose heart in doing good. For in due time we shall reap if we do not grow weary. The apostle Paul says, if you want to understand the spiritual life, look at farming. The principle of sowing and reaping is simple. What you sow is what you get. If you sow fleshly seeds, you will reap a harvest of fleshly deeds. So if there is a lack of spiritual fruit in your life, it's because there has been a lack of sowing to the spirit. can turn that around starting today. You can begin sowing seeds that will produce the sweet fruit of the spirit. And the beautiful thing about sowing is that you always get back more than you put in. So the apostle Paul encouraged you not to grow weary of sowing righteous because when harvest time You are going to reap a bonus return on your investment. It's true that you can't pull up what you have already sown. You may have blown it spiritually, but the Holy Spirit knows how to plow out that field. He knows how to prepare the ground and turn over the soil so you can sow new seeds in the same soil. So I urge you that the Holy Spirit do some plowing and sowing. for preparation on your heart and at harvest time you will be glad you did. I also then want to tell my brother-in-law, Eric, who was in the Army in Vietnam, our granddaughter, I call her Big Sugar, my two great nieces, Asia, who's a linguistic in the Air Force, and her sister, Octavia, who's a Crip operator in the Navy, my nephew, Emmanuel, who retired from that railroad, Pastor Renee Winters, Sister Evangelist Brandy, who also known as the Candy Lady. Her son Willie, who graduated from Navy boot camp last week, whose birthday is today. And the alderman, Gasparini, his son, Michael, and the county board president, Mr. Chiarelli's wife, this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. And I also want to say happy birthday to myself. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday my good friends, happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet, and again, happy birthday. Our next public speaker is Ken Dickens. Good evening, everybody. The respective places I will use my entire time this evening. I just want to start by saying respectfully to everyone in their places, good evening. I hope that this is a milestone for Rockford, for us, everyone present, everyone in their respective positions that we move forward. 2025 is not a devastating – a mark of devastation for the city or us as people, but that it's a milestone that we move forward and grow. I've seen a lot of economic indicators that are saying the opposite, but I believe perception is reality. It's how you focus your energy as far as your resources and what you want to be the end result. And that's why I chose to say that towards the close of this year for the city because I have high hopes for the city. I've never seen someone be passionate or engage in something that they didn't care about. Never seen that in my life. So if anyone's wondering why I keep coming back to the microphone or why I engage with the alderman or why I engage with you, Mayor, and I ask about one simple thing for almost two years, it's because I care. I've never seen a person engage with passion over something they had no interest or care of. It's because I care. It's because I care about the city. I care about our elected officials. Believe it or not, some may disagree, but I care about the mayor because of his position and the weight that weighs upon his shoulders. My concern is since 2020, Illinois as a state has had over a billion dollars in revenue of legalized cannabis and has been consistent up until now. It's a billion dollars every single year. But also on the flip side of that, my concern is, what was the sense of urgency when it came to the cannabis grant, the regrow grant funds? Because I can't help but to think And I have to say this because I want other people to think about this and wonder the same way I wonder. I can't help but think if it was money allotted for, let's say, specifically German people, because the money was very specific in nature. But let's just walk down this trail with me for a couple seconds, a couple moments. If the money was allotted specifically to a German population, would it have taken this long? If the money was allotted to a Polish population in Rockford, would it have taken this long? If the money was allotted to an Israeli population in Rockford, would it have taken this long? It was postponed for two years. There was zero. sense of urgency, but when you read the documentation online, when you read the literature, it states that it was acknowledged that the funding was to right a wrong in regards to the war on drugs, which was a deliberate and acknowledged war on the black family, war on the black man in America, and to literally obliterate the inner cities of America. Crack was not invented in any inner city in America. It was created and they had to teach people how to cook it. Thank you. Zero urgency. Thank you Next public speaker this evening is Brad bowl. Good evening everyone. Thank you for having me I'm here on behalf of pedal bike ride the think of us as the party bus the party bike in the area We started with the soft opening in the Winnebago area we've got compliance and openings and Winnebago Byron and Oregon Winnebago is the first community, frankly, because we live there. So it was convenient for us to be able to work with our local administration to help with our local police department as well to help get everything approved and As you can imagine, it's a little bit different. Is it a bike? Is it a bus? Is it a party? It's really kind of a gray area with legislation, so that's why it took a little bit of work to be able to get it done right. First and foremost, I want to thank you for the opportunity to the zoning community to be able to put this on tonight's agenda item. It's been very nice to see that it's going and potentially coming to Rockford. Of course, there's lots of questions, but what's first and foremost on our mind is safety. So one of the things we want to make sure we're doing right is we went and inspected the vehicle, had it really custom built to our specs. We want to make sure it's something that people of all walks of life can enjoy. It's not necessarily an alcohol-related item. In fact, our very first ride and tour in the Byron area ended up being a children's birthday party, inclusive of stops at the park, ice cream, so lots of opportunities for kids as well. So there's fun for all ages. We've done events such as progressive dinners as well. WHERE YOU STOP AT SOMEBODY'S HOUSE, GO TO THE NEXT ONE, HAVE ANOTHER STOP. SO WHAT I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE TO ILLUSTRATE TONIGHT, I KNOW WE'VE GOT A VERY SHORT TIME, I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE TO CRAM A LOT OF INFORMATION IN THERE FOR YOU. SO OUR FEE STRUCTURE IS QUITE SIMPLE. IT'S $300 IS WHAT WE'VE BEEN DOING. THROUGHOUT OUR SOFT OPENING, WE CHARGE $300 FOR BASICALLY THE TWO-HOUR RENTAL PERIOD. OBVIOUSLY, WE'VE GOT A LITTLE BIT OF FLEXIBILITY ON THAT AS WE'RE STILL KIND OF TESTING THE WATERS AND EVERYTHING. BUT AT $300, YOU CAN IMAGINE But that's okay. Other communities such as Winnebago, Byron, and Oregon charged us $200 for the fee. I did see in the draft ordinance there was a much different number in there, so I respectfully request that that number be revisited to hopefully be more in alignment with what Winnebago, Oregon, and Byron have done as well. Winnebago and Byron have approved us for alcohol, not to sell, but as a BYOB. All of our persons are BASIT trained. By all, it would be myself, my wife, my partner, and his significant other as well, both of which are actually on top of the BASIT training. My wife is a nurse, and my partner's significant other is also a nurse, so we've got safety in mind for that as well. Our intention would be to hire some individuals and have them BASIT trained as well throughout the summer. We look forward to the opportunity of operating in Rockford. especially in the social district here, I think would be a great addition to the community, great for tourism. We've also had some local radio, I'm sorry, local television personalities enjoy our ride, especially in Winnebago. There was a morning segment that you may or may not have seen where the television personality even got a chance to drive the vehicle for us a little bit too. So we really like to use that opportunity to embrace the community. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next public speaker this evening is John Tack-Brandley. Good evening, Tom, Mayor, all the persons and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I want to take this time out also recognizing Larry Marshall. I remember the years that I came here speaking at City Hall and one of the biggest things he put, and matter of fact, Tom, you mentioned it to me at the landing of Rockford. But first I want to say we go into Morris, Illinois on the 18th. This will be our sixth year going to Morris, Illinois. There were some people here from Morris, Illinois that seen our kids and seen me speak and now Every year, even during when the corona hit, we're coming back with a U-Haul for the toys and stuffed animals for our kids. And the 9U, not only are we coming back with toys, but when we get there, they also feed us. Let us eat whatever we want. So on the 21st at Edge Community Church, we're going to be giving away these here toys. Mind you, on the 2nd, this is going to be my fourth time speaking at a church on Youth Day. On the 2nd, I'm going to be speaking at... past the high towers church talking to our youth. I have a lot to talk about. But next I want to get right straight to the deja vu. Tom Macamara mentioned to me, he said, Brother John, if you got some concerns, why you didn't bring me, you know, call me first. Larry Morrissey said the same thing to me a couple of decades ago. Not only that, I go further back and when I was on WLUV 96.7, your Your father told me, he said, a black dam quiet storm. He said, before you blast me on the radio, call me. Let's come down. Let's have a talk. Let's see if we can work out our differences. I agree with him wholeheartedly. The thing that stick out with me the most, our fire chief over there, she was over the fire station on South Main. They wanted to shut down three of the fire stations in our minority neighborhood. We wasn't having that. I said, I talked about it. We got petitions. We got over 5,000 petitions. And I said, why not find out a different way to work out y'all's differences and not take it out on the community? Me and the fire department have been hooked up from the hips ever since then. The ordinance, I had a meeting with the principal at Nacontosh School. Even the people in Morris, Illinois asked me the same question. You're trying to bring the kids to school. What is the city, what is the ordinance person doing to help you with the kids that the school is Auburn, Nacontosh, Ellis? Lewis Leonard, Welch, Welch School. I went from three kids that I have 35 kids I'm transporting. Now I've got five kids that I'm taking to Somerdale that's three years old because they've got absentee dads that won't step up to the plate to look out for their kids. And that's why I'm speaking because we need more African-American role models. And so I'm turning to the two arguments. When y'all going to start helping us out with our kids? Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next up, we will have a presentation to our council and to the committee from Marathon who will provide our year-end review. This is our 10th year that we've been with Marathon, and as they make their way up, we'll be joined this evening by Jennifer McConnell as well as, I just still got to say, Mayor Morrissey. I also want to note that we have Ryan Brawns from Rockford Brokage Consulting with us, who has been our healthcare consultant. And I had the opportunity to see a portion of the presentation today, and I think Council and our committee will be glad to see that. those of our employees who are Not not feeling well not doing well are some of the employees who are getting And are seeing some of the best results and overall not only are our employees saving money with the clinic But our community and therefore our taxpayers are so thank you both for taking the time this evening and alderman If you have questions as they go just raise your hand I'll try to make sure I call on everyone as we get moving through this presentation I'll turn it over to you guys. Thank you. Thank you mayor. So it's an honor to be back at City Council chambers It's about a year ago that we were here presenting Tonight will be a similar format as the mayor said feel free to ask questions. This is your time however in the interest of time if there's more detailed conversation that you'd like to be in get an answer to and Feel free to reach out to me. Do it through the mayor. Do it through HR and benefits, or else just reach out to me directly. I'm happy to have a conversation. I get to have conversations like this in my current role at Marathon Health across the country. So tonight, Jennifer will really be leading most of the discussion. I'll provide a little bit of commentary. But what you'll hear from me primarily is just perspective on, frankly, a lot of the great work that the city's doing. leading in almost every benchmark area compared to our averages for public sector clients across the country. And it's frankly a testament to the outstanding work that your HR benefits and consulting team has done, and we're honored to be a partner with all of you. Also, we just want to do a quick shout out to Alderman Beach and Alderman Frost and Mayor McNamara, who when we launched the clinic, And we're really doing the investigative work back in 2013 and 2014. They were really at the tip of the spear leading the process and driving this evolution and really innovation when it comes to supporting the health of your people. So with that, I'll turn it over to Jennifer. And again, honored to be here tonight. Thank you so much for having me as well. Thank you, Larry. So I wanted to start, and not sure if all of you are aware, but just kind of a general announcement. Marathon at the beginning of this year announced a merger with Eversight Health, very similar company, do the same thing we do, direct primary care. So I just want to make you all aware with the merger with Eversight Health, we've more than doubled and we have several public sector Companies and not companies, excuse me municipalities and school districts things like that that we work with So we've almost doubled our footprint which gives us a great insight into what other municipalities are doing other Public sector clients and allows us to bring those ideas forward and help ultimately drive forward You know the partnership we have with the city of Rockford and just to add a little bit of commentary to that point Again, I work with our public sector practice nationally When I first started with Marathon Health, we were serving about 300,000 total eligible employees nationally. Today, just with the public sector, it's over 600,000. Then all combined, public and private sector, it's nearly 3 million patients eligible to use our services. In the public sector, that includes state governments, City governments like the city Rockford County governments also a whole host of transportation authorities Housing authorities and the like across the country again happy to provide Any kind of insight and discussion if there's interest on how we work with various public sector organizations across the country But again, it's an honor to be able to do work with so many public servants. I All right, so first of all, I want to give a shout out first and foremost to our team. So there's a picture of them on the screen there, our medical assistants. We have a new mental health provider, and you all know Anthony and Dr. Dave. Some of them are back in the back. So, you know, we're up here speaking to you, but it's really that team on the screen that does all the work and day in, day out is here to serve the employees, spouses, and dependents of the city of Rockford. So thank you all. Here's our overall executive summary. We'll dig into a little bit of these going forward, but just some high-level numbers for you. The engaged population, if we look at the amount of patients we have that are engaged, which means they've had at least one visit in the past 18 months, 78% of the City of Rockford's employees are engaged in the Wellness Center. Down at the bottom, it's kind of small, but you can see the benchmark for our Marathon public sector is 50%. So the City of Rockford leads our benchmarks in almost every aspect. So we do thank you so much for your partnership and being really a leader and an example for other public sector clients within Marathon. In the past year, excuse me, this data is from October 2023 through September 2024. So in that year time, we've had over 3,000 visits. Eighty-four percent of the employees that have either a high biometric risk factor or chronic condition are engaged in the clinic, so they've come in. Up at the top right, you see 80 percent of employees... THAT HAVE A HIGH RISK BIOMETRIC FACTOR ARE MAKING SOME KIND OF PROGRESS. SO MAYBE THEIR BLOOD PRESSURE IS GETTING BETTER, MAYBE THEIR CHOLESTEROL, THEIR BMI, BUT A HUGE NUMBER. AGAIN, OUR BOOK OF BUSINESS BENCHMARK IS 74%. SO AGAIN, CITY OF ROCKFORD LEADING THE WAY. Our patient satisfactions, the net promoter score is 85.5, which is an excellent score for healthcare. And then 98% of people that take the surveys say they're either satisfied or very satisfied. And probably the number I'm most excited to share with you is the bottom right corner. the estimated savings. So if we look at how much it costs for members who don't use the clinic, or who do use the clinic compared to people who don't use the clinic, there's a savings of $2,406 less per member per year. So we actually get your claims from Blue Cross Blue Shield, so we're able to do those calculations and get a hard dollar savings for what we're providing, you know, saving the health plan. And then at the bottom right-hand number, again, another way we estimate savings is we do the trajectory of claims spend. And so over the 10 years, we're about $52.1 million below the estimated claims spend all across these past 10 years. Again, we're not saying Marathon Health has taken, we're not taking credit for all of it. There's a lot of factors. But again, thank you, it's due to the partnership between the Wellness Center and HR and the great programming and all of your support. So just some highlights at a glance. We averaged in this past year 31 new faces in the clinic, with 10 of them being their first visit ever. So there's more and more people coming in new every month. Again, there's that same number, 2406 is what it costs less per member per year for people who use the wellness center. 76% of the survey respondents said they spent five minutes or less waiting for the provider in the room. 99% spent 10 minutes or less in the waiting room. And then you can see there, 553 people made improvement on at least one biometric risk factor. And then again, with all of that, there's a lower rate of inpatient admissions and ER visits for people that come into the Wellness Center versus those who do not. So one of the new services we added this year was mental health. So Casey Pilcher is our new licensed clinical social worker. She just started with us in August, towards the end of August. And you can see she kind of ramped up in September, October. She's really... MAKING SOME TIME AND EFFORT TO GET OUT AND MEET THE DEPARTMENTS, SHOW UP TO DEPARTMENT MEETINGS SO THEY CAN GET TO KNOW HER AND FEEL COMFORTABLE BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT WE'VE SEEN EVEN WITH ALL OF OUR PROVIDERS. WHEN WE GET THEM IN FRONT OF PEOPLE, THAT'S WHEN THEY FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE COMING IN AND ONCE THEY COME IN THE DOOR, THEY GENERALLY COME BACK. SO KACIE IS HERE TONIGHT. SO THANK YOU, KACIE, FOR BEING HERE. quotes from survey comments of people who have spent some time with Casey. So super glad to have her and excited to see how this partnership continues as we move forward. The next slide is just kind of a breakdown of the health of your population. So this is a breakdown of those who are at a high risk or they have a chronic condition. So right now there's 776 members, so whether they're employee spouses or dependents, that Factor or a chronic condition. So you can see there about 25% of the people have multiple chronic conditions. 47% of the people have one chronic condition. And there's about 2% of the people we have a Johns Hopkins tool. So that estimates that those people will have advanced medical needs. And then 25% of the people have high biometric risk factor. So at our larger presentation this morning, you know, they've asked us to do some comparisons. So we're going to dig in and see how that compares to some other municipalities. But more important than the health of the population is the chart in the middle there that says the percent engaged. Because it's one thing to know what the health of your population looks like, but it's another thing to know what are we doing about it. If there's one group that we're going to engage less, it's the low risk, that's okay. You know, we'll take that. We would love everyone to come in, but we really want to get those people in there that have chronic conditions, whether they have one or many or they have advanced needs. So you can see there, you know, 80 percent of our moderate risk are coming in, 72 percent of the high biometric risk, so again, I don't need to read it all to you. Basically what it's saying is they're coming in, right? Those are the people that we want to actively reach out to, and we're focusing our outreach efforts on reaching out to those people and getting them in the clinic because that's when we really start to see, A, happier, healthier people, and then, B, savings to the health plan. And this is just a breakdown of the chronic conditions. So number one is hypertension, two is asthma, three is diabetes, four is depression. We see this all across Marathon's book of business. Hypertension is always number one, and asthma, diabetes, and depression kind of, those may vary but those are always the top four, so nothing out of the ordinary there. Another new service we added with this past renewal was value driven referrals. So just a reminder of what that is, is it's a concierge referral service. So when Dr. Bolger or Anthony see someone they need to make a referral, you need a colonoscopy or you need to go see a cardiologist, they send the referral directly to our referrals team and within 24 hours someone from the referrals team reaches out, calls the patient, they have your health plan so they know which providers are in network and they use a tool called Garner Health. Garner has billions of claims and so what we look for are the providers that have the highest quality outcomes with the lowest cost. So in addition to the good patient outcomes and having that concierge service, we're also looking for high quality care at a lower cost. So if we look at just the procedures saved, there's a lot going on here. These are just procedures, so these aren't all necessarily office visits. So I just want to draw your attention to that bottom line. You can see there were 12 procedures ordered with this. Eleven of the members selected the Garner tool. And so over there in the third from last column, you can see the average cost for the standard market rate is $1,188 for the non-Garner option. And then for the Garner option, it's $773. So those 11 people saved $415 each. So that's a total of $4,500 savings just for those procedures. That doesn't necessarily count the savings by going to the specialist office visit, just strictly procedures, ultrasound, mammograms, things like that. So more to come. This is new data, right? This is a new thing with us with Garner. So as we get more information, we'll be able to provide more savings as we get more data. And then this is what I mentioned at the beginning, our savings of user versus non-user. So on the left-hand side, you can see, again, these come from your claims that we get directly from Blue Cross Blue Shield. The members who do not use the clinic, they're not engaged, they have zero visits in the past 18 months, cost $9,342 per member per year. And those who are engaged in the clinic, and we're defining engaged in this case as having one provider visit. So if you just come in and get a flu shot, we're not counting you, right? Because we're not going to make a ton of difference if you just come in and get a flu shot. But they've had a visit with a provider. So those people are costing $4,936 per member per year. So when you take that out and extrapolate that savings, it comes out to $1.4 million saved. Okay. And one other thing I want to draw your attention to is the average risk score down at the bottom below the columns. So the non-engaged, so 1.0 is average risk for a normal individual. So you can see the non-engaged is 1.30, so that means they're 30% sicker than the average person, for lack of a better word. But the engaged group is 1.54, so they're 54% sicker. You know, sicker, we could translate to claims, even though it's not necessarily sickness. Right. So we would expect the people who have a higher risk score to cost more, but they're costing less. Again, this is not all due to the wellness center, but we like to think that we have a little something to do with that. Ultimately, we're actually engaging a sicker population and having a real positive impact, which is all very good, and it's a testament to the clinical team. So the name of the game then is how do you engage those folks who are not engaged with the clinic? And so that was a lot of our discussion today is a strategic conversation. What can we do to make sure we're engaging with as many members as we can? Had a lot of really good discussion around that. And this is the same saving slide. It's just showing that on the right-hand side, the IP admits per 1,000, that's inpatient, and then the ER visits per 1,000, just showing that there's... Again, we would expect the people with the higher risk score to have higher higher ER visits and higher inpatient admissions. There was no difference in inpatient admissions, but those, the ER visits, the rate is lower with those engaged than those with not engaged. And some of that is, right, just having access to a lot of times same day or next day care, it helps avoid those trips to the ER. And then this is the slide we look at every year, the overall go-live claims trend analysis. So it's a couple years before we started the clinic. And then you can see that orange line is our projected, what the claims are projected to be. So anytime the purple is above, it's projected. loss and in time the purple's below it's a savings so you can see in year 10 the claims were seven point five million dollars below what they were projected to be and then if we add that all together for the past ten years the Wellness Center has been here it's fifty two point one million below the projected claim spend if I can just make a quick comment on that one back when I When I was first elected in 2005, quite a few years back now, we were dealing with a health fund that was completely underwater. And it took a long time just to kind of get us back to a baseline. And then the council made the decision to reinvest a good amount of the savings into the health center. The trend line that we're seeing there, again, we were projecting a path that was not sustainable for the city we've been able to really change that trajectory and I appreciate the as a taxpayer today I'm no longer a policy leader like yourselves but as a taxpayer people might ask the question you know why does this make sense for the city Rockford to invest in this what's it mean for me as an average taxpayer all that savings is money that taxpayers don't have to pay You're actually saving taxpayer dollars by investing in the health of your people. And then fundamentally, just one other observation, we have a whole nation that's struggling with trying to address chronic disease, and primary care access has not gotten better. It's getting worse. We have fewer and fewer people going into primary care compared to those that are leaving, Picking a different career path whatever and so what you're doing I think in terms of changing the trajectory for the city of Rockford City employees and their families is also I think a great way to lead and show a Direction that other employers hopefully can follow in terms of getting away from the fee-for-service model and to truly value based care. I And then this is new from our merger with Everside. We got a full actuarial team that joined us. So one of the new ways that we are showing savings, chronic condition management. So you can see on the top, the patients, we're looking at three metrics, blood pressure, weight management, and diabetes. So we can see that we've improved, 219 of the people have improved. And then there's the annual value per patient. And then Over at the top column on the far right, $520,104 is the estimated savings from managing those chronic conditions. So, another way that we can look at savings, but probably even a more important way to us going forward is there's still 507 people out there that are at risk. So, if we take that value, there's still $1.2 million of savings out there. So, that's kind of the number that we're using to help drive us and engage those people so we can get them in and then see that savings continue. It's been great so far, but we definitely are not going to rest. We're going to continue to push forward and find additional savings and lead to healthier, happier people. And then we talked a lot about our next steps continuing. We've got a lot of programming, new programming coming out, continuing our mental health outreach. We've got some diabetes and weight loss programs really focusing on outreach, whether it's phone calls from our clinical staff, some postcard mailers to the house so we can try and engage some more spouses. A lot of good discussion this afternoon of some things that we want to implement. Okay. That is what we have for you any questions for any of us. Thank you for that any questions Other woman Trina I don't have a question Said more of a testimonial was at a street festival this summer back in June and I fainted in the middle of the street and it wasn't just a you know, I can't be normal It was like older woman. Okay. I wish I could be Gabby again But it was a big spectacle. And I tried to get into a doctor. And honestly, to get, long story short, to even get to a new primary that I needed, couldn't get into a primary until February, excuse me, January. of next year. So I'm like, I'm just going to go to the wellness center. And I was seen by Dr. Bolger. And as soon as he came, I was like, hey, Dr. Bolger. Just an amazing experience. Like really one of the first times I've ever been with a physician that really just took time, asked the right questions, didn't rush me through the appointment, just made sure that I knew the I just understood things like and he would say something like do you understand do you get it like I just felt like I left so knowledgeable. But I felt actually cared for so that was just like a wonderful experience and like it was a problem that I've had that has just not been properly treated like my entire life. But it was like finally someone took the time to actually care ask the right questions get the tests and like I feel like. So much better like I'm much better as a result of the care from the center. So I just you know, shout out to dr Bulger and also this service. So Obviously, I've had such a great experience with it. I'm gonna continue to support it for the city of Rockford. Thank you Thank you other comment alderman frost it's been a long time since I mr. Morris he was mayor of Rockford and asked if I and Alderman Beach would join him and Ryan bronze I think was August of 2013 to to go on a trip, and not just one trip, but two trips. We went to Chattanooga, Tennessee. We went to Bend, Oregon to interview, and we got it down to two finalists, and Marathon was selected to be our first and only wellness partner in Rockford. And I'd like to... Very happy to see the high participation rate much above the benchmark and as ultimate Trina just indicated anyone that goes to the Wellness Center Is an employee the city Rockford sees firsthand how how truly great it is And I think that's a testament to why you have such a high percentage rate the care that people receive that the items that you look at whether it be BMI or diabetes or Asthma or whatever the case may be the care and concern is great and And at the same time as a city that self-insured it's nice to see the cost savings that We've been able to accumulate over time and when you look at it over, you know, a ten year ten year period it is it is significant so I think it's important to know that not only are you helping keep a employees healthier and less sick, but you're also at the same time helping our self-insured fund and like as Larry mentioned the Frank frankly the taxpayers of Rockford are also Indirect beneficiary of this so thanks for all your work. Thank you very much Any questions or other testimonials if you want? Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I would just like to say to it, I was going to reiterate on the cost savings, especially since we're self-insured, but I appreciate Dr. Bulger and Anthony as well for taking time time that I've experienced in the past just you know you don't feel rushed but what I do really appreciate is the kind of the non pill pushing the holistic approach of your lifestyle your diet which probably alderman frost here could probably take a few or two from but That really holistic approach and they really took the time to really understand and guide on certain avenues and such so Marathon I think has done a great job and especially those two in particular as well. Thank you Thank you any questions comments concerns other Alderman Durkee Thank You Renner yeah, it was also a observation at least when marathon was coming I remember when Larry Morrissey was mayor he gave a talk at UIC health and a couple of the Dean's came up and said I thought this guy was a lawyer and a mayor what does he how does he know all this stuff about health care very fascinating what a quick study he was and no one could disagree with these employer-based health models. They seem to be working all over the place. Unfortunately, I don't work at one. But I just had one quick question. Do you have an outside audit outcomes, like Press Ganey or somebody? Do you have, Bench, do you hold yourself accountable Does somebody look at your outcomes as a third party rather than your in-house people? So we have an actuarial team, as Jennifer mentioned, that looks at our data. We have an in-house team. But frankly, from the standards that are there, we do have a number of our health centers are credited nationally, and so we have a go-through-that-process for NIH, what is it? NIHC set the one of the various accrediting agencies the problem that you run into from And there's actuarial review that we'll look at from some of like the actuarial table that you saw there and some of the savings the problem that you wrote we run into is that The sort of standard model out there doesn't match up if there's an outside audit and Review program that you're aware of or others are aware of that we're happy to take a look at it, but frankly our model is still relatively new. That actually it's part of my job for 2025 is we're trying to see if we can hook up with some research universities to do some peer reviewed analysis on our work because it's just there's a there's very limited amount of data in terms of peer-reviewed studies when it comes to this employer-sponsored model. There's a little bit out there, but not much. I think there's – we feel like we're on the cutting edge. We feel like we're, frankly, ahead of most of the sort of legacy healthcare models that are out there. But I don't know that there's any outside audit – program that could look at our data and give us a review. We have had it looked at by sort of our model by some consulting firms like the, gosh, I don't, the Aons of the world and some of the other consulting firms that have validated sort of our approach, but in terms of a sort of an actuarial full analysis, I'm not really aware of one, but I'm happy to look into that more in 2025. Other one meets. Thank you so much. Thank you all so much. I wanted to also agree That the service is wonderful at the Wellness Center. So I appreciate all that you guys do. I'm I'm curious and I can't remember Vividly how this all went down, but I recall sometime last year where we had to take up like additional insurance or Something of that nature where we had to pay an additional amount amount for like the entire plan and I can't I really don't recall do you recall anything that took place during that time so we if I had to guess I'm guess you may be talking about our stop-loss insurance that we purchased someone wanna Sheree or dr. hunter or Ryan would either of you like to I know enough to be dangerous. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Yeah, it was this gentleman that talked. I remember now. Thank you, Alderman. You may be speaking about our stop-loss insurance. So the city buys some insurance for claims on a specific individual that go over a certain dollar amount. And that will be coming through council probably another week or two. That insurance doesn't really have anything to do with Marathon. And that is, we actually talked about that in our session a little bit earlier. Marathon has been extremely helpful with the bulk of the population, but we still have seven or eight claimants, unfortunately, that have some very serious conditions and cost, unfortunately, a lot of money, millions of dollars. And we have insurance for that. Did you have a specific question about it? Yeah, that was exactly the question. I just wanted to see if there was any tie with Marathon and what was going on there. I think the tie is that we're trying to stem the tide of people that get to that point. The more that we can interdict these conditions earlier on, the better that they are, right? But we still have people that have organ transplant or, unfortunately, some very serious cancers and things like that. They've been here for 10 years now. And in our office, we run the same data. And I think we're seeing enough now where we're starting to notice that the types of cases that are becoming very serious are changing a little bit. So we're not, knock on wood, because things can change, but we're not seeing as many stroke, heart attack, cerebral accident things that we had seen in the past. Is that because we're now focusing a little bit more on hypertension? That's a hypothesis. But those conditions seem to be improving. Where we need help is in autoimmune. We need help with diabetes. And that is still something that's very common. Unfortunately kind of rampant in our group. That's what we're working on. Thank you. Thank you any other question just again. Thank you To the marathon team. Thank you to Ryan. Thank you to Sharice and our HR team really appreciate the great partnership. Thank you Thank you for having us. Thank you with that council We're gonna go back do the acceptance of journals is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for no for the meeting on November 4th 2024 Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Next we're going to go to Petitions and Communications and Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, we have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed development agreement with Steiner Electric for the establishment of Steiner Electric Company, Northwest Branch, at 4805 Queen's Village Avenue, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 4580 Springbrook Road referred to code and regulation Committee number two is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 54 34 North Main Street referred to code and regulation committee Number three is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla planning and zoning manager regarding the final plat Rock Valley College downtown West subdivision referred to code and regulation committee and Number four is a memorandum from Kelly notes engineering operations manager regarding a request to vacate for right-of-ways referred to quarter regulation committee And lastly number five is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson land transaction officer Regarding authorization to place for sale the city-owned property located at 4640 West State Street referred to quarter regulation committee. Thank you. I Thank you. Next, we'll go to the Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you. All these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from John Posey, Brockford Police Department Business Manager, regarding approval and acceptance of the fiscal year 2025 Illinois Department of Transportation's Sustained Traffic Enforcement Program Grant Award. Number two is a... Member entered from Jamie rot water superintendent regarding authorization approval of the IEP a revolving loan fund application number three is a memory from Mike Atkinson regarding the proposed donation of city-owned properties from I dot to Rockford complete streets project. I Number four is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni regarding an amendment to the existing intergovernmental agreement with the Winnebago County for the reentry focused deterrence program number five is a memory for finiqua Hughes Regarding the approval acceptance of the head start early has started continuation application grant program award. Thank you. Thank you next We'll go to new committee reports and we'll go to planning and development committee and all the wrong. Welcome. Thank you honor. I Item one committee recommends approval of the funding agreement with the River District Association in the amount of thirty thousand dollars of TIF funding Through the East River TIF district to support their 2025 work plan the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you. Is there any discussion or questions from Council alderman Bonnie? Thank you. Um, I kind of went through finance quickly last week did the staff memo notes that the I funding source in 20 or the funding and level in 2020 was $10,000 and then prior to that it was $30,000 has it stayed at $10,000 ever since 2020? This is though. So this represents the first increase since kovat, mr. Cagnone, I I believe that to be the case alderman and you are correct during COVID we dropped the funding allocation for all our business district associations down and this is the first time the river district has come back since then. Have the other groups that draw similar funds Midtown District Miracle Mile and I believe Swift. had come forward with similar requests? Yeah, they have. At least two of them have been approved with Miracle Mile and SWIFT, and I can't recall Midtown if we've advanced that or if we're still in discussions with them on a proposed work plan. Okay. And they submitted a work plan that had a $70,000 total, about half of that, almost half of that, was to hire a part-time employee. Was wondering if we know where that part-time employee is going to work where they gonna do business I were like gonna be physically housed. I don't think I do not know that the answer to that question Do we know if that part-time person has been identified already or if there's I guess what I'm asking is are we? by any chance taking a part-time position at a at a downtown business or at a say the CVB and Creating a full-time position by funding half of it. I'm not aware of the latter being the case and I'm not aware If they're in discussions with anyone on filling the position, okay? Thank you any other discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? timber frost Serena fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Are you? Meeks Bailey fine 13 eyes, thank you next we're gonna go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina. Thank you. I have nine items AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. TO MONDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 10 AM TO 2 AM IN THE C2 LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 3840 BROADWAY. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. NUMBER THREE, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS SUSTAINING THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS RECOMMENDATION OF DENIAL FOR A VARIATION TO INCREASE THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ALLOWED BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION WALL SIGNS FROM 2 TO 3 IN THE C2 LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 6001 EAST STATE STREET. Number four, the committee recommends denial for the variation to increase the maximum number of allowed business identification wall signs from 2 to 3 in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 8201 East Riverside Boulevard, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation for approval. I also want to state that the findings of fact represents the staff's recommendations. On number five, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a tire shop, vehicle storage, and auto repair in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 1005 to 1015 3rd Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to decrease the minimum side yard setback from eight feet to five feet. 3 inches in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 3778 Scarlet Oak Drive. Legal Directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 7, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to decrease the minimum side yard setback from 7 feet So four feet and three inches in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 3796 Scarlet Oak Drive. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number eight, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of two college campus buildings, parking lots, truck training area, and ancillary related design components including site parking and landscaping deviations from the regulations. In an I1 light industrial zoning district at 311 South Winnebago Street The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number nine the committee recommends approval of the amendments to the city of Rafa code of ordinances for chapter 29 pedal bar bus The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you all the woman Trina council There's nine items before it's any discussion on those nine items all the woman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a question or Number nine Mr. Bull He spoke about this and I thought it was I really like the information that he provided because it was some additional information that we Didn't have before but he mentioned that because I think we were all sort of thinking that it was primarily going to be used for Alcohol, but when he mentioned that you know be kids and doesn't have to be alcohol involved Did we consider? For non-alcohol usage for the bus to be able to go outside of the district Is that a part of the ordinance? Mr. Cagnone? So as the ordinance is currently drafted it wouldn't be allowed to go outside The footprint downtown If it's not being used for alcohol, why couldn't it go to other places in the city I Is that an amendment I can make? That would be up to this body, yeah. Okay. So I would – we'll leave it up to discussion if there's more discussion, but then I'll – once it kind of dies, I can make that amendment. Alderman Bonney? I agree. I think that would be a good idea. And if – since it's not on paper, we need council's permission to – I believe that's accurate. Yep. I would move the council – Do you want to wait? Sorry. Go for it. Allow the fifth ward alderman to make that motion. So I'll make the motion that, how do I want to state it? Can we? That if the pedal bus is not being utilized for alcohol consumption, that it should be able to go outside of the social district. So I have a couple of questions. Thank you for the amendment. Before I ask for the second. Would think it may be wise and I'll ask staff and they could disagree with me But that we ask our staff our public works team to take a look at it to find out if there's roads that we don't want them on And roads that we do I think it's a worthy change I just think it's a massive change compared to what's before us tonight So we already have a motion on the floor I Seth what's your thoughts either mr. Gagnon I'm mr. Hankins. Would you need time to review or do you have a thought of what? Language could be if they wanted to move forward this evening. I So mayor, I think it would be a good idea if it's the will of the council to have a much broader footprint Whether that's citywide or if there's a some concern on restrictions of roads that we read look at the ordinance to make some changes You know a couple that just come right off to my head if we're talking about the utilization of the bicycle outside of the social district without alcohol. I think there's other structural changes that we may want to make in the ordinance as well. Like for example, I mean this very much was structured as a BYOB opportunity as well, and there's a $5,000 deposit. but if it's the desire to allow the pedal bus outside of the social district without alcohol, we really shouldn't apply the $5,000 deposit that we have for other BYOB licenses. So there are probably some other changes that we could make that would be more business friendly that wouldn't be necessary for the pedal bus outside that area. But I don't believe there's a big rush to get this done, but we could be happy to To look at and come back with some changes that allow to take place within what we understand the intent to be So alderwoman Trina with that in mind you have a motion on the floor So I should I just withdraw the motion and then make a request to lay it over does that best? I think that would be great. So I'll withdraw the motion and then we'll just keep it over for discussion. I Because before somebody lays it over. Okay. So further discussion, we have Alderman Frost and Alderman Tunberg. Well, I was going to say, I agree, just to lay the matter over, maybe we could take a better look at if it's going to be used for non-alcoholic purposes or like, you know, when Alderman Tunberg wants to have a birthday party for his family, where it could go, where it couldn't go on streets versus paths versus parks or something like that. So maybe we could kind of study that and kind of figure out what would be appropriate. for outside of the of the downtown district we all envisioned so we can lay that over that be great I'll second the motion to lay it over okay before we get that we're have a little more discussion Oh Alderman toonberg no need to wait for one of my family's birthdays to get this underway so I I was just wondering that if the council is an agreement As far as it stands right now without the amendments or such that I'm just thinking as far as the business owner If he wants to start getting underway if then the procedure would be to make an amendment to the Existing if we passed it tonight and so the business owner can get underway That's that's kind of the way I'm thinking. I think there's there's good intentions with this and Ordinance and I agree with I think mayor you put it very eloquently in my thoughts on that too Obviously we wouldn't want this on certain streets, and I don't think our citizens would want about certain streets So that is something to hash out Alder woman of the fifth ward has good intentions on that and I would be supportive of that as well but I just think in the meantime I think a business owner and I would probably want to start getting underway with his endeavor. So appreciate that and Appreciate that We have Alderman Bonnie then alderman punty have comments as well So I think I need to go to the health clinic because alderman Toonberg took the words out of my mouth I I think that makes the most sense to approve it as is and then amend it to later after staff has the chance to dig into this and you know, it might take longer than two weeks and that would allow the business owner owner who's been Championing this to continue on with his planning. Thank you. Oh the Roman fronty No Thank you. So before us, I guess, Council needs to decide if you want to make a motion. I see it as two options. You make a motion and lay it over, and you get the policy and the maps tweaked up for non-alcohol-related pedal... biking Or you simply move through what I haven't heard anyone have concerns about with as it stands right now And we come back and make some amendments once public works as an opportunity to review Potential maps or areas that they can and can't go I'm assuming getting some assistance from legal on some of that as well. I It's really up to you. With no comment, I'm going to move forward with the existing ordinance to move that through. All right. Any other discussion? No discussion. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a question on the item number, the signage on Mercy Health. Unfortunately, I wasn't here last week. I'm a little bit concerned about... denying the variation for having three signs on a building and I think the way I read it they wanted one on I-90 and a couple on the sides of their parking lot. I believe it's for their new cancer center The problem I see with this is right now you got two health systems competing Against each other I work for one of them as a matter of I work for Swedes so People should know that if two health systems competing on both sides of i-90 and you've got a considerable people that are coming up and down there And I think the signage on i-90 is important as people are getting off They could see where they in a sense need to go that I don't know what the the Exact wording will be on their sign if it's gonna say cancer center or what? What it'll say on their new building there, but I Yeah, different patients are in different sort of states of mind and when they're searching through the campus of a hospital or a clinic area and I mean we had a lady today who got dropped off at the Cancer Center was supposed to be in my building to see me and There's the signage is sort of adequate there It's not really big and bold so we see this a bit and so I would I would ask that we as Recommend approval as the committee has approval for this extra signage on a health care campus To help the patients and such direct themselves on a very very busy Campus over there, so I would like to make a motion to reverse the committee and approve the committee report recommending approval of the Signage as was recommended. Thank you. We have a motion. We have a second to reverse The denial by committee of what was The zoning Board of Appeals recommendation for approval. So we have a motion. We have a second or any discussion on Alderman Durkee's amendment alderman treatment. Can you remind me? this cancer center, it's Is this directly attached to like the big hospital? No? Yes. Is this separate? Okay. So that hospital is kind of this very large entity that's really kind of hard to miss anyway. Okay. I just want to make sure this is not like similar to like how Swedes does have a separate cancer center, but this cancer center is associated with their larger hospital. Okay. I just want to make sure I'm correct. Mr. Kignoni, the cancer center... Signage as well as the main what I will call the main campus of Javan Bay Health clinic out there. Is that all in one building? So the the addition for the Cancer Center is connected To the main building through a corridor, but there are two separate structures that are connected. Thank you for that clarification alderman, Bonnie, thank you. So I I recall when this went through committee it did have the ZBA's support approval and it was on my motion to reverse based on the item Before this on the agenda, which is the Chase Bank application essentially for the same consideration that the CBA denied which is in the 14th ward and I agreed with that and supported it and and you know I just I think it's hard to say yes to one and no to another not that we don't do that but to do it on the same night and agenda items immediately following it each other which isn't to say that dr. Durkee isn't making a good argument I mean that is a good point is a health care facility but I just I I just don't think it's very consistent and as the fifth Ward alderman just pointed out It's I mean that's like the hospital on the hill you can hardly miss it. I mean Granted the sign, you know, you don't know there's a cancer center there, but I don't know I'd be inclined to still deny this. Thank you alderman Rose Thank you for allowing me to speak. We've made some of these exceptions for Specific reasons especially around emergency care. I think we made an exception. It was Probably about six or seven years ago when I first got in I think for Swedes For their emergency room seeing that this is an emergency care You know facility I just find it kind of ridiculous that we make these exceptions because I Quite honestly, I mean, I'll just put it out there. Their signs are enormous. Actually, we gave them already an extended amount of space for their signage out there. It's very ridiculous. It's gaudy. It's, I think, something that's way overdone. I'm surprised there isn't a bust out there of a particular person, but Again, it's just I don't think we need to make these exceptions just simply because it's a Cancer center. It's connected to the largest hospital on the hill So that's my perspective and just wanted to throw it out there. Thank you Other men turkey. Yeah, ridiculous is the wrong word. It's kind of insulting to the patients who have cancer with difficulty navigating a large campus Most of these patients are elderly. They get confused in the lot. We have people get confused between my office building and the cancer center at Sweets. Having extra navigation to assist in that is important. The parking lot is large. They have one sign that says a clinic, another sign that says hospital for the guy who wants the statue, I guess. But apart from the sarcasm, The institution is important. The people who are trying to direct themselves on a very large campus, especially coming off the tollway, is important. These are not healthy people. They're not going to a bank. The bank is a very small building, and I understand the inequity, but I'm also advocating for a competitor. So I was one of the advocates when the buildings and the campus was first built put up because the signage even then was inadequate. So people are despondent, they're elderly, they're getting chemo run into them. It's kind of helpful to see a sign in a building they're supposed to go to when they're in a large parking lot and they may not know, maybe their first time. So people get confused. Those of us who deal with patients know that they get confused. And asking for extra direction is not a ridiculous thing. Request and to say so it's a little bit insulting for the patients who actually need that extra signage and direction All right alderman Thunberg and then alderman Bobby Well now that this has come up and with the bank being also brought up to I'd like to state that based on proven studies that for elderly individuals number one is fear of dying. Number two is running out of money. So maybe we need signs not only at the hospital, but also maybe at the bank so they can go there. So I have no issues with additional signage at a hospital. Frankly, I didn't really see any issues with the sign at the bank as well. For the hospital, I definitely can see that point. Thank you. Alderman Bonnie, I'm gonna move that we lay over item 3 and item 4 so I have a question Director Hamer we had a my understand is that we had a motion and a second to amend item number four What the motion would it? another motion to play that item supersede that initial motion in second because we were on discussion just for the amendment and Give me one second. Sorry. Yes, in this case under Rule 11 with the two aldermen layover rule, that would trump the motion to amend. First night on the job and she's pulling out Rule 11. Can we give her the job permanently? If Nick Myers is watching, look at that. Look at that. All right, so we have a motion or the motion in second, and just so I'm clear, I know it already went through. Was that Item 3 and 4, Alderman Bonney? Yes. Okay, he certainly would not be at home watching this on a Monday night We know he has something better in his life to be doing Okay, we have items one two five six seven eight and nine before us Is there any discussion on those clerk? Please call the roll turkey tuber frost Tarina run T Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's weeks Bailey funny I Number 211 eyes to nose and five through nine thirteen eyes. I Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $8,653,517.66 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on November 25, 2024. And number two, the committee recommends approval of the 2025 through 2029 Capital Improvement Program. I place these two minutes before you. Thank you. Any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? turkey tuber frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 13 eyes. Thank you with that. We will go to Unfinished business and we'll go to code and regulation committee all the Roman trainer. I Your honor the committee recommends approval of the proposed short-term rental ordinance the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance This was laid over from November 18. Thank you. Thank you council. We have one item before us Is there any discussion alderman Bonnie? Thank you mayor since this went through committee and I've been had some several conversations with Realtors including the Connor Brown at the Alliance of Realtors and Neely Erickson that the Realtors of course had a lot along with other groups had a lot of input on this and had essentially signed off on this but by their own admission they There was an oversight on their part that they think that this that they feel that the ordinance has written is a little over-restrictive and that I In that it it doesn't really allow for a lot of flexibility for families With the two the way it's written with the two two people per two occupants per bedroom rule and that for example a family of five is would technically be in violation of the ordinance if they rented a two bedroom home and they had three children sleeping in one bedroom or one child sleeping with the parents in one bedroom. Now, presumably, I mean this is all complaint, enforcement is complaint driven and presumably it wouldn't be a complaint but there's still the, you have to, um publish what the ordinance is and um you know they would create a lot of um you know the concern is that it would create a lot of uh um you know difficulty if in in renting if people were worried about you know being in violation of an ordinance to do something that they could do in a hotel room granted hotels are not usually operating in residential neighborhoods as this would be but um After having talked with them a number of times I would move that we amend the committee report for short-term rental ordinance as follows change section 12 maximum occupancy subsection a to read occupancy for purposes of determining maximum occupancy is defined as two people per bedroom unless additional per bedroom occupants are the minor children of the renters and and section 12 maximum occupancy subsection C to read, in no event shall the occupancy of the short-term rental exceed 10 persons, including renters, renters minor children, invitees and social guests, regardless of the number of bedrooms. So this would be a very limited revision. It would only apply to minor children. Wouldn't apply to a coach and a soccer team. It wouldn't apply to even an extended family of nieces and nephews, and the 10-person limit would stay. Thank you. We have a motion, is there a second? We have a motion out there to expand this to just include Additional Okay, we have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion alderman to work? Thanks again, Mayor You would reach out and He does have a family that does come in with nine kids and two parents So that make eleven so How are we gonna deal with that? with I mean They do they do these short-term rentals when they come in but they would be exceeding Ten people because in this that it is not to exceed ten persons including renters renters Minor children also, so I just I just want to put that question out there I think as it's currently written they would not be allowed under the ordinance again. It would be complaint driven But as it's currently written they would not feel that I Alderman frost I just didn't understand the amendment that was made to section 12 C versus the the previous Language of the ordinance unless the one I'm seeing here the draft version is already changed I mean if if it just says in no event shall the occupancy be Exceed ten persons. I don't know why it has to include any you know any other in your own language I mean if it's ten it's ten and again, I guess under the hypothetical raised by the hypothetical resident that called mr Toomer come out of town. I guess that we don't know if they're gonna call the VR boat VRBO police or not I mean it is complaint driven. So I guess if they had one extra child how it's gonna be enforced anyway, but I You've made a kill Evan then you're gonna have someone else called Alderman to work and say well, they don't have 12 kids I don't know how you get around that But if anyone can tell me if you miss a more you can clarify the difference in the in 12c versus the amendment versus before Yes, I I think it's just specifying that the renters minor children are included in that maximum number of 10 Think it was probably implied Previously, but now it's just explicit in including the renters minor children in that calculation. Okay, so Any other discussion we have a motion and we have a second we have alderman Toonberg coming back Thanks, and I'll just say my piece on it I I would hope that if if a family does come in in this case, which they do with nine kids and a mom and dad that i imagine they're not going to uh there's not going to be complaints from neighbors that i'm aware of with this particular family but i'm using them as an example but Good good families that come in Abide by the law mind their P's and Q's that are over the 10 person limit. I'm not suggesting anarchy by any means But for them to come in to our city as visitors with a family of that size to have the ability to get one of these short-term rentals be able to to go to a grocery store cook for their family versus going and renting multiple hotel rooms and probably having to eat out is going to be extremely expensive i know mayor maybe you do that all the time eat out with the family every night but that can get expensive and so i just hope that we have as a city have a little bit of grace for uh situations like that Lots of grace for people who can field an entire baseball team. So, all right. Any other discussion? We have a motion. We have a second. Two aldermen, Bonnie and some men. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins. I'm sorry, Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Bonnie. Aye. 13 ayes. Aye. Excellent so we have an amended item before us is there any discussion on the amended item clerk please call the roll tumor Serena fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey, Bonnie. All right 13 nice director hammer. I don't know what you did But director Myers was working on this for a long time and then one meeting you just get it all done. I The trend continues. Okay. With that, we're going to motions and resolutions. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, committee recommends approval of a commercial corridor property revitalization program. These agreements will be up to $25,000 each. The funding source is the casino tax revenue and ARPA funds with a 25% cost match from the property owner. Item two committee recommends approval of the 2025 TIF commercial and industrial rehabilitation program These agreements will be up to twenty five thousand dollars each the funding sources to phones Excellent. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on these two items alderman Bonnie? Thank you mayor so last summer we had a conversation about When we were entertaining a motion to reconsider how we should listen to staff more and trust staff more and and I I really when this was amended at committee, I I don't see a great reason to To to not support the staff recommendation for a 50% match. I think just staff recommendation and And it just logic dictates that the applicants are they're going to be better applicants if they're investing 50% and Versus and they're going to be more likely to be able to go the distance of this five-year forgivable loan and You know 25% they're gonna be less likely to know how to less have less experience in Running a business or managing a business. They're gonna be more likely to need extra staff and coaching and assistance and guidance and Which is it's going to eat up staff time and and which is a cost to us I just don't I Don't see the reason for doing it So I also would move to amend this amend the resolution for the commercial corridor property revitalization program as follows the owner shall be responsible to contribute a 50% cost match to Toward the eligible program costs which would essentially be taking this back to what was recommended by staff Thank you. So council we have an amendment On the floor. Is there a second? Okay, we have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion on the amendment other one meets? I just want to speak to the fact that I Had a lot of time in between this amendment to speak directly with local businesses in my area many of which have been in business for a very very very long time and Looked at this proposal and we're very pleased with the proposal very pleased with the idea of seeing that 25% match allow them to have a little bit more flexibility with their business, which I think would preempt more business growth so I really would love to see this continue to stay at the 25% that we talked about in the committee and I thank you all for considering that Thank you any other discussion? Will you please call the roll on the amendment by alderman Bonnie to a one turkey tumor frost Tarina printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks no Bailey Bonnie. Hi seven six failed Seven nose six eyes Thanks. All right two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? No discussion clerk. Please call the roll turkey Toomer frost Torino Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Alderman Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Item number one, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item two, 13 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee. If anyone needs to take a break, just let me know. I have 22 items, which are more than the number of children all of them are renting his house to. Order. Order. Number one the committee recommends approval of the award a bid for city yards demolition to end tracking off two hundred and thirty three thousand eight hundred And seventy one dollars and thirty three cents. So if the contract is through June 1 2025 and the source are our funds. I 2. Committee recommends approval of the World Update for Madison Street Streetscape Stage to NTRK in the amount of $4,531,333.56. The duration is through October 31, 2025. The funding sources are the 1% Infrastructure Sales Tax, the WRIA, and the DCO grant. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the window cleaning to city facilities to all window cleaning in the amount of $36,150 based on unit pricing. It's a one-year contract with four possible one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered contractual only. The funding source is the property fund operating budget. Number four the committee recommends approval word a bit for well house number 40 to show Sherman sons the amount of five hundred and two Thousand three hundred and forty dollars the contract is through June 2025 the funding sources the WRI a Number five the committee recommends approval word of it for demolition to northern only service. I'm sorry demolition group 31 To northern only service the amount of thirty nine thousand nine hundred and seventeen dollars it includes the properties at 1424 11th avenue 2920 arcadia terrace in 1922 south fifth street the funding sources is the cdbg and the construction services operating budget Number six the committee recommends approval award of joint purchasing contract for turnout gear Advanced cleaning inspection repair to fire decks the amount of sixty thousand five hundred dollars based on unit pricing the contract is through the date award through December 31 2025 with three possible one-year extension options the funding sources the fire department operating budget and Number seven, the committee recommends approval of joint purchasing agreement for the purchase of Honeywell structural turn-down gear to Delta Fire in the amount of $425,000. It is through December 31, 2025 with three possible one-year extension options. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of joint purchasing contract for City Hall janitorial services to Bridgeway in the amount of $148,406.04. The contract duration date of award is through December 31, 2025, with three possible one-year extension options, annual price adjustments. For CPI, we consider the contract renewal only the funding source of the property fund operating budget. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the contract extension for rental traffic control devices to traffic control protection of Bartlett in an estimated amount of $200,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is the final one-year extension expiring on December 31, 2025. The funding sources are various departmental operating budgets. 10. The Committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for traffic signal electronic equipment to MoboTrac's Mobility in the estimated annual value of $300,000 based on unit pricing. It is a one-year contract. The funding source is the Traffic Section Operating Budget. 11. The Committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for loose equipment and supplies to Air One Equipment in the estimated annual amount of $170,000. It is a one-year contract. The funding source is the Fire Department Operating Budget. Number 12, the committee recommends approval and award of non-competitive contract for Air Cascade system to Air One Equipment in the amount of $63,445. This is a one-time purchase. The funding source are ARPA funds. Number 13, the committee recommends approval and award of non-competitive contract for thermal imaging cameras to Dinges Fire Company in the amount of $79,390. It is a one-time purchase, and the funding source is the gaming tax revenue. Thank you. Number 14, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract for fire department station where it's a uniformed den of any amount of $125,000 based on unit pricing. It's a one-year contract that funding sources the fire department operating budget. 15. The committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for MSA G1 Fire Service Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus, known as SCBA, not SCUBA, to Air One Equipment in the amount of $159,940. This is a one-time purchase. The funding source is the Gaming Tax Revenue. 16. The committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for MSA G1 Fire Service Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus, known as SCBA, not SCUBA, to Air One Equipment in the amount of $159,940. For first-due software subscription to Locality Media, in an estimated annual amount of $34,728.75, it is a one-year contract with four possible one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered a contract with no only the funding sources, the fire department operating budget. Number 17, the community recommends approval and award of engineering agreement for the Madison Street Streetscape Phase 1 to Farragrand in the amount of $275,850. The contract duration is through the fall of 2025, and the funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. number 18 the committee recommends approval award of engineering agreement for high crest multi-use path phase two designed to fairground in the amount of three hundred and fifty five thousand eight hundred and twenty six dollars the contract duration is through december 2025 and the funding source is the motor fuel tax number 19 the committee recommends approval of the resolution for the appropriation of motor fuel tax funds for improvement under the illinois highway code for the high crest road illinois transportation enhancement program phase 2 design engineering in the amount of four hundred thousand dollars number 20 the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for 2025 and six bridge inspections HR green in an amount of two hundred and twenty five thousand six hundred and seventy nine dollars the contract ration is January 1 2025 to December 31 2026 the funding source is the MFT tax Number 21 the committee recommends approval of a resolution for the appropriation of MFT funds for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for the bridge inspections in the amount of two hundred and twenty five thousand six hundred seventy nine dollars number 22 the committee recommends approval of the resolution for the appropriation of MFT funds for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for 2025 general maintenance in the amount of ten million thirteen thousand one hundred and twenty dollars and four cents a Place these 22 matters before you Thank You alderman frost any discussion on those 22 items Alderman Beach. Thank your honor Just on number 8 and number 16 number 8 has a three-year possible Extensions of the contract and number 16 has four years Based on what this says here is these adjustments will go up based on CPI Will they go down if CPI is lowered or does it stay the same? I? uh director hagerty yes sir thank you uh generally they will not i mean in in my 20 plus years here we've only seen negative cpi once or twice um generally CPI-based contracts, too, are personnel-driven, and we wouldn't expect them to cut their staff pay if there was a reduction in CPI, just like we wouldn't expect to cut our own staff's pay. So generally, if there's a CPI, a negative CPI, we would not expect a downward adjustment. The CPI, and a CPI increase doesn't necessarily automatically give them an increase, but, it is an upward limitation on the amount that they can request. So they still have to come to us and request a price increase, and we will only approve a price increase up to the amount that CPI has increased. Nothing above that, unless there's some sort of market-based extenuating circumstances that they can document for us. Thank you. Any other discussion on the 22 items before you? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Frente. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Fonny. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next. We're gonna move to new business and playing planning and development committee older woman Wilkins. Thank you I don't want is an ordinance approving the funding agreement with the River District Association And the amount of thirty thousand dollars of tip funding through the East River dip TIF district to support the 2025 work plan Thank you one item before us any discussion that one item clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? Toomer Frost Terina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Terina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to change the hours of operation to Monday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 3840 Broadway. Number two is an ordinance approving a special use permit for a tire shop, vehicle storage, and auto repair in the C4 Urban Ex-Use Zoning District at 1005 to 1015 3rd Avenue. Number three is an ordinance approving a variation to decrease the minimum side yard setback from eight feet to five feet Number four is an ordinance approving a variation to decrease the minimum side yard setback from seven feet to four feet and three inches And in our one single-family residential zoning district at 3796 Scarlet Oak Drive number five is is an ordinance approving a special use permit for a plan unit development consisting of two college campus buildings parking lots truck training area and ancillary related design components including site parking and landscaping deviations from the regulations in an i-1 light industrial zoning district at 311 South Winnebago Street and Number six is an ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances for chapter 29 pedal bus bar Pedal bar bus and number seven is an ordinance approving the short-term rental ordinance. Thank you Thank you seven items before us any discussion on those seven items Please call the roll turkey timber frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Rios Meeks Bailey Bonnie and I'm number one eleven eyes to nose items two through seven thirteen eyes. Thank you Before I ask for a motion to adjourn just want to say a sincere. Thank you to director Hankins and your entire team That capital improvement plan is incredibly impressive. You just think and I know council knows this but this summer alone you're gonna have well over 75 million dollars worth of construction taking place and That includes major thoroughfares from Auburn Street and 11th Street Alpine Mulford Riverside Spring Creek and doubling money into the neighborhoods Incredibly impressive and you're doing it while doing two jobs. I just want to say thank you and a big Thanks and congratulations to your entire team other alderwoman meets that you have a Comment I don't think we did officers report. We did not I'm so sorry. Thank you. Now we can't thank you I just wanted to comment You may have seen the signs or the acknowledgement on the billboard at Beth Eden Church off of Pierce and Huffman They're having their live Yes, Bethlehem Marketplace. Yes, so I would love if you would attend. It's between 1 p.m. and 4.30 on Saturday at Beth Eden Church off of Pierce and Huffman. Thank you so much. Thank you. Alderman Trina. Thank you. I just wanted to make the announcement that on next Wednesday, December 11th, I'm having a ward meeting for the Fifth Ward. It'll be at the Guy Z. Jenkins Resource Center, which is 911 Michigan Avenue, directly across the street from Providence Church. That meeting starts at 530. Again, ward meeting next December 11th at 530, 911 Michigan Avenue. Thank you. See you there. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Yeah. Well, this isn't in my board I always love seeing this come about every year and it's very it gets better each year There's a group called 815 shorts that hosts our short film festival coming to Downtown Rockford and that is December 13th and 14th. So there's a whole bunch of information on our Plus 7 Company is hosting it, but I'm sure there's even more information on the city website. If you type in 815shorts.com, there's a whole webpage dedicated to it. If you're interested in film or short films, it's definitely worth your while and going. It's something that the organization has been doing now. I think they're in their third year. And it's last year they had some great ones And just like every year that they've hosted it. It just keeps getting better each year So if you like film had downtown on the December 13th and 14th at the North Loft Center. Thank you all the wrong front Thank you just wanted to say how much I enjoyed Stroll-On State and wanted to thank the committee, the Stroll-On State committee for accommodating my very large family as we were on the hayride. We had a great time. There were just so many wonderful things to see and do this past weekend. We had the Grinch with us. So just saying how great a job they did and appreciated it. I also wanted to give a shout out to the harp players. They were spectacular. I saw them carrying their harps in, and when I was, they were just some young women carrying those harps. And then when I was leaving, I had a chance to hear them and speak with them for quite some time. So they did an excellent job and, Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. I would echo your comments on strong state hundreds of volunteers tremendous sponsors and donors and amazing work by the convention visitors Bureau staff big shout out to John grow Chris and Paul and the entire team that plays a significant role on putting on that free family fun event Alderman burrows. Thank you mayor. I Want to echo on what you say I want to thank John grow for the Grand event and It's beautiful to see all different type of our families come together and really enjoy downtown is John grow did a great great job. Thank you. Thank you any others Now I will need a motion to adjourn We have a motion we have a second anyone want to discuss it amend it. No all those in favor say aye Those opposed, have a great night.