Enable us to overcome issues of poverty, prejudice, violence, and injustice. That peace may prevail. May our actions align with our compassionate values. And may advancements in our community extend to each citizen and increase the quality of life for all. Bless those who have committed themselves to serving our city, especially those present here tonight.
 Give them wisdom, strength, and compassion to meet the challenges they face in this role and in life. Be with their families for the sacrifices they make. May all that is given be returned to them in even greater ways. Be with us this night and with every person who finds a home here. To you we pray. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee Here Logeman Here Thunberg Here Frost Here Herbie Here Irvins Here Thompson-Kelley Here
 McNeely, Chiarelli, 13 present. Wonderful, so we have a quorum. I need a, I would ask for a motion to approve the journal proceedings for, excellent. So we have a motion and a second for the journal proceedings of city council meeting held on November 20th, 2017. Is there a discussion? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. All right, journal passes. I also need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on November 27th, 2017.
 Is there a discussion? Seeing none, all those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. All right, the journal passes. We have three proclamations this evening. First proclamation, if Wayne Weiford and other members of the Grange community would like to come forward. National Grange is celebrating their 150th anniversary today. Nancy. Yeah, Nancy.
 Thanks for being here.
 are felt by nearly every American today, from the protections afforded consumers that grew out of the Granger laws to the establishment of the rural free delivery of mail and expansion of electricity to rural areas to the widening access to broadband Internet service.
 Whereas the Grange continues to be an active force in thousands of communities across the country and provides leadership, motivation, and education to bring together rural and urban families. And whereas the Grange emphasizes civic responsibility, volunteerism, and involvement in the legislative process.
 and whereas the Grange members everywhere wish to celebrate and express their pride and legacy of their highly respected organization. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim December 4, 2017 to be National Grange 150th Year Anniversary Day.
 Thank you very much. I'd like to thank the City of Oxford for recognizing National Grange on their 150th anniversary. The Grange started out as a rural
 organization, but now it's more developed into a community service project throughout the country. There are four local granges here in Rockford. There's only one range represented tonight and that's Guilford Hope. I'd like to thank you very much for recognizing us. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Our next proclamation will be received or accepted by Lieutenant Joel Gibbons for Drunk and Drugged Driving Prevention Month. Good to see you, Joel.
 Whereas motor vehicle crashes killed 1,078 people in Illinois during 2016 and hundreds of those deaths involved the driver impaired by alcohol and or drugs. And whereas the December holiday season is traditionally one of the most deadly times of the year for impaired driving. And whereas for thousands of families across the state and the nation, holidays are a time to remember those loved ones lost.
 and whereas organizations are joined together with the drive sober or get pulled over and other campaigns that foster public awareness of the dangers of impaired driving and anti-impaired driving laws, law enforcement efforts.
 And whereas the City of Rockford is a proud partner with the Illinois Department of Transportation's Division of Traffic Safety and other traffic safety groups in the effort to make our roads and streets safer. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of 2017 to be Drunk and Drugged Driving Prevention Month. Lieutenant, would you like to share a few words? Thank you very much.
 As you can see, we want to take a proactive stance on allowing our citizens and those who visit our community to be safe on our roadways. Therefore, we are proud as a department to be able to accept this proclamation and actually help our citizens. We want our citizens, again, to be safe and those who visit here. Drunk driving is a preventable crime.
 And by us being out there enforcing it, by the citizens taking a proactive stance to prevent it, that's what we're hoping for. So thank you very much. Thank you. The final proclamation this evening is for the Illinois Bicentennial. We don't have anyone here accepting this, but I think it's important to read on today.
 Whereas Sunday, December 3, 2017 marks Illinois' 199th birthday as Illinois became the 21st state in the Union on December 3, 1818. And whereas Illinois Bicentennial will be a year-long celebration starting December 3, 2017 and concluding on December 3, 2018, our state's 200th birthday.
 And whereas Illinois Bicentennial will remind us all that every day in Illinois, amazing things are born, built, and grown. And whereas Illinois Bicentennial will honor the many ways that Illinois has influenced American history, achievement, culture, innovation, and more. And whereas Illinois Bicentennial is a once-in-a-lifetime invitation to fall in love with Illinois all over again.
 And whereas together we can inspire pride in Illinois and show the world what makes this state so great. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. Magsmar, as mayor of the city of Offord, do hereby proclaim December 3, 2017 through December 3, 2018 to be Illinois Bicentennial. And I'd like to say Chairman Haney had a nice celebration today for all of the county, and I appreciate Alderman Beach who was able to attend on short notice. So thank you. Thank you.
 Next up, we have a presentation for our capital improvement plan presentation. I believe we have Tim Hinkins, Kyle Saunders, and Christine Piquet, and Mr. Mark Stock. Good evening. Tonight we'll be rolling out the draft for the money.
 With us tonight is Mr. Tim Hankins, who is our CIP program manager, Ms. Christina Peacock, who is our financial analyst for the CIP, and Mr. Kyle Saunders, who is the water superintendent.
 They will be going through the CIP with you, not necessarily line by line, but trying to hit all the high points. We were fortunate enough to meet with several of you individually, so you have a gist of what we're proposing this year, and we will certainly open it up to questions whenever you have them. Thank you.
 Good evening. Before we begin, again, I just want to thank all the aldermen who met with staff earlier last week and actually today as well. I just want to let you all know that we're definitely available for further discussion beyond today as well as we push this CIP program through. Tonight is intended as a discussion, an open discussion about this book.
 We're going to be referring this to committee next Monday with the intent of ultimately passing the CIP by the end of this year. All right, and again, this book may be best viewed electronically. I believe it's in your agendas, the agenda packets online, and tomorrow it should be available online on our website.
 Before we get into it, I do want to, as a reminder to all, to counsel here, of the three core values of our capital improvements program. That is, number one, enhance public safety. Number two, maintain the movement of commerce and encourage economic opportunity throughout the city. And number three, promote a sense of well-being for the community as a whole.
 We'll be kind of touching on all three of those core values as we kind of go through some of the highlights on these projects in our book.
 And before I get into the book that we're proposing, I do kind of want to brag a little bit about some of the 2017 capital improvement program achievements. You can see some of the stats of our neighborhood program. Bids came in lower than even last year's bids. Prices were extremely low. We were able to do a lot more roads than what we typically do.
 And I do also want to note that the streets that we are doing these days, we're doing a lot more efficiently and we also, they're a lot more sustainable after we're done with them. Our asphalt's stronger, our concrete's stronger, we're no longer paving into the gutters.
 And if we see like an underlying problem somewhere, we're not just going to leave it for the next person. We address it on the spot. And by the end of it, we have a product that's going to last a lot longer than what we have in maybe not the recent past, but the long past. And we do all these improvements to federal, state, and local code. Okay.
 As we look at the Capital Railway Improvement Program, a couple highlights. We connected the Shiloh Road gap, the Trainer Road. That should give our fire department there a little better access to Guilford Road. And then I do want to highlight that more than I've seen in recent past, we've been able to collaborate with the Water Department and Sanitary District on a bunch of various projects. We just realize every agency involved in these collaborations realize the cost savings.
 As far as our structural repair and replacement program, we completed all of our bridge inspections this year. We are waiting to get the reports back on all of them by the end of this year. And I do want to note, too, one of the initiatives that we're going to be starting is a long-range priority or long-range bridge project.
 plan. Not just five years down the road, but I'm talking about 10 years, 15 years down the road prioritizing our structures, prioritizing our bridges that need to be repaired. I think there's money out there. There's federal money that we can use to assist us in paying to replace some of these bridges
 And if we have a long-term plan, when you ask for this federal money, it's a five- to six-year process between applying and then ultimately constructing. So I think if we come up with a long-term bridge plan, it will just maximize the amount of dollars we can get from federal assistance.
 Moving on, a couple other achievements I want to go over. We did over a mile of sidewalk repairs by our citywide sidewalk program. I think the waiting list is still about two to three years on this program, but believe it or not, we are cutting into that little by little every year. Miracle Mile Street lighting, that should be turned on pretty soon. And then we completed all three of our geographic police district stations.
 I'm going to turn it over now to Christina Peacock, our CIP Financial Analyst, and the person who prepared this, everything that you see in this book and made it look really nice. She's going to go over some of the revenues and then expenditures.
 Good evening, everybody. I just wanted to highlight kind of the funding sources that we use for our capital improvement program. I wanted to make sure that everybody, you know, the newer aldermen, understand how we're able to fund our capital projects.
 The first funding source is our CIP general fund. Now that is separate from our general fund within the city. We are able to fund that by a transfer that we do from our motor fuel tax funds. What that allows us to do is to utilize those motor fuel tax funds without as many of the rules and regulations that IDOT imposes.
 has to be used for very specific purposes, but we're able to get a little bit more return on our investment by doing this transfer. Our motor fuel tax is a tax that is on all the gasoline, as Director Eklund points out when she does her reporting. Unfortunately, this revenue stream is declining as cars get more fuel efficient, as people become more environmentally friendly. We aren't seeing as much return on this funding source.
 The final one is sales tax. As everybody knows, we have a 1% infrastructure sales tax in the city of Rockford.
 As the financial analyst for this program, I cannot speak to you enough about how much we appreciate this 1% gift that the community is giving us. It allows us to do much more for our city than we were ever able to before. So this chart that we have here is just showing you how much we anticipate carrying over from 2017 to 2018, how much we project for our revenue of 2018, and then the total program funds.
 This year we are going to be seeing a 2% fee imposed to us by the state of Illinois for collecting our infrastructure sales tax in the final program funds that we are showing. It does include that 2% deduction as well as our overhead costing removed from that. We wanted this to be truly reflective of how much we're able to put back into our infrastructure. The next slide shows our program distribution.
 for how we have the funds allocated to each chapter of the book. We break this down into fiscal year 2018 and then our five-year plan. As you can see from this program, we do make sure that we get a lot back into our neighborhoods.
 New to the program this year, we have a community enhancement economic development chapter that is capturing all of the development agreements that we've recently entered into. We've seen this chapter grow a lot within the last few years. It's about 25% of our capital program. So we just wanted to make sure that everybody was able to see the allocation that we allot towards each chapter. This program does include state funds, which we'll all go over in the following slide,
 For the fiscal year 2018, we're really happy to say that we have a program that totals about $30 million. This is the funding distribution for how we break down all of those funding sources. This year, we really wanted to make sure that we were investigating how we use all of our dollars to make sure it's the most efficient way possible. One of the ways that we address this is by using motor fuel tax funds for a few more of our maintenance items.
 We found that by doing this, we're going to be able to avoid some of these change orders that we would have to go through when we work with IDOT on projects. Again, it's making sure that we are taking everybody's dollar and using it to its maximum ability.
 I wanted to highlight for fiscal year 2017, our program altogether for these funding sources was about $24.8 million. So we are seeing an increase of about $5.2 million from last year. The only other major item that we have is for the next 18 years now, we will be paying the $1 million debt service for the geopolicing stations.
 So that does come from our general fund and it is highlighted later in the program. So I will turn it over to Tim who will go over some 2018 highlights with you. Thank you.
 All right, instead of just listing off a bunch of projects that we're doing, you all have the books in front of you. You can take a look at some of the projects. I just want to touch on a couple of our major projects and then go over some of our focuses and goals, initiatives for each chapter in this book. One of these main projects is our Charles Street Box Culvert Repairs. This is repairing much needed repairs for Charles Street Box Culvert and then the surface on top there too at Charles and 20th.
 Another project, Strathmore Drive Extension, is part of our OSF development agreement to extend Strathmore Drive through the OSF campus. We have the Chestnut Street Bridge Active Transportation Enhancements. Again, going back to our three major core values, enhancing public safety, this will be a walkway connection between Davis Park and the Sports Factory along Chestnut Street for both cyclists and pedestrians, provide a little safer passage for them on this bridge.
 And then you have our IDOT projects here, East State Street, West State Street, North Main Street. North Main Street is still under construction. It's a little ahead of schedule, but it will go into next year. And then East State Street and West State Street, we're looking at doing those actual construction of those projects, probably in 2019. The state has pushed back these projects based on trying to still secure some funding for them.
 All right, so going into the fiscal year 2018 program highlights, I'm just going to kind of focus on 2018. And the focus of this particular year's program, I just want to make sure that we highlight, we are investing a lot more into our neighborhoods in this year and then also want to focus on economic growth and opportunity. Our neighborhood program, as you'll see, the funding of this program increases by 25%.
 We're keeping the annual neighborhood program at $5 million, as was approved in last year's CIP. But beyond that, in addition to that, we're adding an additional $1.3 million to address the remaining neighborhoods facilities determined by staff to be in the most need of repairs, and this would be a citywide allocation.
 It's also worth noting, too, historically, above and beyond some of these allocations that you see in the neighborhood program, is that in other chapters of this book, you'll see that we put almost another $1 million back into our neighborhoods, if you consider through our citywide sidewalk program, through our inlet repairs and drainage program.
 Moving down to capital roadway improvement program, the roadways you see there, those are all the roadways that we, the arterial and collector streets that we, that the Council approved for 2018 last year. We're just moving them ahead into this year, keeping with the plan. And then like I mentioned before, there's, these IDOT projects have been pushed back a year while they're awaiting funding.
 The Highway Structure Repair and Replacement Program, we're increasing funding in this program, and we're happy to address three of the remaining 12 load-restricted bridges in this city. That's taken a big bite out of some of our failing bridges out there. Our Stormwater and Drainage Program, we're going to be focusing on stabilizing the massively eroding banks of Keefe Creek.
 And then our sidewalk and active transportation program, we're increasing funding quite a bit on that. And here is a new initiative as well. We're going to begin implementation of a future ADA transition plan. Staff will likely be bringing this transition plan to council probably this winter. This transition plan is going to allow the city to proactively address some of the noncompliant ADA facilities that we have out there.
 As for our capital lighting and traffic signals program, you'll see the Auburn Street and Pierpont Avenue traffic signal, as well as adding some decorative street lighting along the major gateway corridors to remain consistent with what we've done in the past.
 And then our Community Enhancement and Economic Development Program, again, building on our core value of encouraging economic opportunity out there, you'll see a significant increase to this program in funding. It's $7.4 million. And as Christina alluded to, it includes projects that the city's committed funding to through the various development agreements. And with that, I'm going to hand it over to Kyle to talk about our water improvements.
 Thank you, Tim. Good evening. Before I get into the 2017 highlights, you'll see a common theme throughout the water improvements, and that is the large percentage of funding that either has been or needs to be invested in water main replacement.
 I came to the council last year along with past initiatives towards increasing our rates to better fund water main replacement. That's a common theme throughout the next five years. One of the biggest things that we discuss in water is our high risk model, that decision support that helps drive where and when we're going to invest in our water main.
 2018 is going to be the second year that we're going to rerun that model and then obviously coordinate with the CIP group and other agencies in seeing where those types of investments best align. Before I get into the details, the decision support software, the high risk model that we've been employing over the past year is strictly based on
 linear assets. And what I mean in linear assets is water mains, water services valves, right? Things that are underneath the ground. One of the things that staff and I are working on is incorporating that level of decision support into our vertical assets. So what I mean by vertical assets are elevated towers, large reservoirs, any of our production facilities so that we can better assess the condition of our facilities, weight them, and then prioritize our investment.
 So, getting into the water production section, so our treatment efforts. In 2017, we saw the groundbreaking of our radium treatment plant at Well 45, which is located on Cedar Street in Avon, right next to our water operations center. That's going to be a multi-year project culminating in 2018, but that'll be the last of our foreseeable radium treatment plants to be added to our system.
 The other thing in the production side was the rehabilitation of our last two large reservoirs at Well 13 on Skyline Drive off of Alpine Road, and then Well 30 on Palo Verde Drive off of Mulford, right by Rock Valley College. These were two of the reservoirs that were identified in our engineering inspections a few years back, and this work consisted of interior lining to help water loss, and then also concrete work to prevent spalling and incorrect spalling.
 Citywide water main improvements, as Tim alluded, there were several partnerships that we leveraged this year to obviously see a significant economy of scale. The Harrison Avenue and the North Main Street work was done in conjunction with state projects.
 Fisher, Haskell and Rock Street was done in conjunction with Rock River Water Reclamation District projects. And then the remaining balance on that slide were for the most part coordinated through our CIP group where we would handle the water main replacement, they would handle the restoration of sidewalk, curb and gutter, driveway aprons, and it was a really good partnership.
 On the in-house capital improvements, those are just long-term legacy costs for the most part, long-term operating costs. The granular activated carbon replacement at Well 35 is just a long-term maintenance on operating that treatment facility.
 And then I think most notably is our increase in predictive and preventative well maintenance. Not letting wells catastrophically fail, but rather assessing their pump curves, assessing their specific capacity, assessing their overall condition to help drive those replacement efforts. So we're about all the way through our wells over the last five years, and we're going through that a second time.
 Looking at the water fund allocations, that $1.2 million at the top for water replacement and improvement is just that predictive and preventative maintenance that I was just speaking of on our wells and treatment facilities. And I think the most notable line item there would be the citywide water main replacement or improvements. Seeing that a few years back we committed to wrapping up that effort and you can see that in 2017 that's 53% of our overall expenditures on the capital side.
 I should probably change the slide as I'm talking, sorry. Looking at Rhea over the next five years, on the production side we're seeing, we're forecasting about a $13.1 million investment in total production improvements. Most notably the culmination of the Stanley Street radium treatment that I discussed earlier. Two elevated tower rehabilitations on Wentworth Avenue off of Harrison and Christopher off of West Riverside.
 And then also the reconstruction of our large 5 million gallon reservoir at Stanley Street. So that will be a critical asset in our overall central zone. On the citywide water main improvement side, you can see most notably Coleman Village water main replacement that's going to be done in conjunction with a development agreement.
 Church Street and Park Avenue is a project that we've completed the Park Avenue portion this year, but we'll complete about a thousand feet of large diameter high risk water main down Church Street from Park Avenue to Locust in the heart of our city.
 Church Street and Court Street water main replacement is one that we're working on in conjunction with the CIP group. And then the balance are a few state projects and then the Edgebrook area water main, which is basically getting water main outside of backyards, under swimming pools, and a portion of the city that we acquired years back.
 System expansion is just one of those chapters in our program that we identify for any type of hydraulic looping or extension projects. Most notably, you'll see in 2018 that we've identified the 11th Street and Brook Road water main for extension. That is in conjunction with our Southeast Superfund project where we're going to be connecting those final three private wells in that area.
 And then on the in-house capital side, $6.25 million in total in-house capital improvements, with the lion's share of that investment being on the well side. So that's, once again, predictive and preventative maintenance on our production wells to ensure that they're able to meet the demand needs of our customers.
 Looking at the next five years in terms of the fund allocations, the chart on the right shows kind of our projections for REIA. Obviously that is a function of how well we operate, seeing that we are a business type enterprise. The better we operate, the lower we keep our operating expenses, the larger the margin we can then reinvest. So we keep a keen eye on this and these are our projections over the next five years.
 And then I think most notably, and I can't emphasize that enough, but over the next five years, you can see that about 50% of our dollars are going to go towards water main replacement, which is something that we're strongly committed to and understand the need for. So with that, I think we'll open it up to any questions Council may have. I just had a question so much as a comment. I saw, I didn't go into detail, but the maintenance schedule,
 I get calls from people all the time, some of our decorative lighting that we have on our major corridors, the bases are corroding. You know, the paint comes off. It's ice, it's salt, all of those things. And one neighborhood group has said for two years,
 what are we going to do? You know, they're just going to get worse every year. We go through this all the time. There's always that tension between new development and keeping up with what we have, but also not allowing what we have to deteriorate. So with the decorative lighting especially, those poles are expensive. They're beautiful, but they're expensive. And if we're going to do it, it just looks
 horrible to now have all these big gray blotches on all the bases because the paint is peeling and for two years running we haven't repainted them. It's not a criticism. I understand the tension, but I'm increasingly reluctant to start expanding when we can't even take care of what we have because then the life of that item is going to get cut short.
 I don't know, it's just constant, but we have to do a better job of allocating for maintenance of what we currently have. Yeah, we completely agree with you. And as you'll see in our maintenance chapter here, which I didn't go over, you'll see more items on there than I think we've ever had before. And one of them is, in fact, $50,000 to address that very thing, painting the shrouds with the street lighting.
 Another instance is sealing some of this colored stamped concrete that we have. Again, we'll do this, and then two or three years from now, it might not look good anymore. So we need to, just like you said, as we increase some of these decorative elements out there, we also have to understand and identify some of the maintenance that goes along with them. And the second thing, do we have an annual program?
 comprehensive maintenance schedule for parking decks, for, I'm talking about for more or less not for cars and things of that sort, but major capital items, HVAC systems, parking deck, you know, the joints or whatever it was that we let wear out before. Some of the box culverts, bridges,
 Do we have a comprehensive schedule? And number two, how much of our maintenance is being deferred? I'd like to see how much we're actually deferring. Everybody does it. Again, it's not a criticism. We understand, again, that tension. But I'd like to see what maintenance items we're actually deferring on an annual basis. Sure.
 We are getting all of, we inspected every single structure in our town. We're getting those reports back by the end of this year and we are looking to do that very thing, is to come up with a long-term plan here. How much money do we have to spend on this bridge in six years? Do we need to start saving for it? And we do have a line item in there for addressing some of our parking lots.
 I believe we did at the time have some funds in there for our concrete, our concourse parking deck. Is that correct? So, so those, I believe we have identified some of those in our book. And then the last item, one more. The last item, pardon? Yeah, well if it's me, you know it's me. The last one would be,
 for our streets, concrete in particular. For our concrete streets, where are we with the joint repairs? Are there any that are outstanding that are gonna hit a critical mode? One, it's for the concrete streets because they're the most expensive, but number two,
 What are some major anticipated items that are going to come up in the next year? Do we have any HVAC systems? Do we have any roofs? I know we've got a plan for some of our fire stations, but where are we? What's the next Coronado or whatever that's going to fall through? What's out there?
 What was it here? Was it the air conditioning system here in City Hall? You know, one and a half million in the middle of the year. What's out there that's a potential to hit us in the next year that's not budgeted or planned?
 Director Stockman has a response. We currently have a project at the Pioneer Deck to replace the chiller there and that was in the five-year plan submitted by property. We did not include the property maintenance five-year plan in the CIP this year as we did last year, but I can certainly get you all of the information regarding what we have programmed in for buildings and structures going into the future.
 Part what's programmed, but the biggest question I have is what's not programmed that's going to come up. And I understand not putting it in the CIP, but is the property fund healthy enough to cover it? You don't have to answer now. I just, as we get into the CIP, because if it's not coming out of the CIP. The last thing is for staff. What is the anticipated reduction in our motor fuel tax?
 based on the state stealing our distributive, I'm sorry, co-opting our distributive funds. Because I don't see that it's going to get any better. The state doesn't have the money,
 to do anything that it needs to do. So where's the hit going to come? In motor fuel tax? Is it going to come in grant money? I think you're already deferring something because the state is not funding those programs. So what impact is that going to have on the city? You can use the word stealing. And you don't believe it's just a one-year take?
 Absolutely it is. Just one year and we're going to be right back on where we were before. They follow all their promises. No, that's going to be a big issue. Prior to I get to you, Christine, Director Eklund, did you have an additional comment? Yeah, we did. For the last several years, we've compiled a five-year facilities plan that includes replacement on major systems in all of our facilities and haven't had money available to fund it. We provided
 Those numbers with the budget summary and the initial presentation that was provided to council, we can certainly provide the plan itself. And the conversations surrounding how and when and if we pay for those improvements going forward can certainly happen as part of the budget conversations.
 It's not that the plan hasn't been there. If you ask the fire chief, he'll tell you he's always had a five-year facilities plan. We just haven't had available money to pay for those improvements. We're addressing it on an emergency basis.
 And Christina, you had a... Yeah, just as far as the state funding that we're not receiving. Right now, there's no indication, and knock on wood, right now, there's no indication that they're going to be dipping into the motor fuel tax fund. Like I did say, we are seeing a 2% loss of our sales tax money. I don't know if you can see it.
 I don't know that they're going to be raising or lowering that anytime soon, but we're operating under the assumption that we're going to be seeing that 2% fee taken from here on out. So we're going to be programming accordingly. And can we clarify for people that the 2% loss in the sales tax is the state collected sales tax? It is the state of Illinois. I had a call from people saying that the state...
 was taking some of our 1% sales tax money. And I said, no. Well, they are. It is, but indirectly. But they're not. No, it's pretty directly. The state is collecting our 1% infrastructure sales tax for us, and then when they release those sales tax funds to us on a monthly basis, we're actually seeing a 2% decrease in what they release to us. But I need to apologize for three people who are...
 lied to like the state, who said that they were not taking that money. I apologize. I
 It is unfortunate that we're seeing that hit. And like I said, that's why when we addressed this book from the financial standpoint, we really took a look at how to stretch our dollar in the most maximum way possible to make sure we're still able to address all the needs of the city. In addition to that, Alderman Hervey, I was at the Illinois Municipal League Board of Directors meeting this Friday and Saturday.
 Every single city is struggling with how much the state is trying to encroach, either the small cell legislation, the cut-in, the local government distributive fund, or the stealing of the 2% sales tax. Alderman Beach. That administrative fee was about $300,000? We're projecting it to be between $300,000 and $350,000. I'd rather say that number than 2%. Yes, $300,000 to $350,000, which is a major railroad.
 so it's not it's not even funny it's really very serious i hope to consume to get it back it's not right just to take it just plain take it and but anyway thank you um so much for your presentation i also want to thank you for seeing me one of the aldermen that you've rounded about 19 of you around the table but there's a couple of things that i had mentioned there and i'll only talk about one here now
 How detailed do you want us to become in our questions today, Your Honor? Just as detailed as you like. I spoke about this two-way conversion of Church Street. I see there's $2 million in there for 2020. I don't want to get into a philosophical discussion right now, whether we need it or we don't need it.
 But the discussion I had with you around the table was the fact that you were going to do it from Cedar to John Street. And that runs right by the Metro Center.
 And that's really a problem for me now, when you see the way that street is configured already for a stacking lane for trucks right there on that west entrance going down into the building. And then, of course, the collection of cars don't even get into the deck. The answer that I got from traffic was, well, that will probably trigger something else so maybe we can have policemen out there directing traffic. Absolutely the last thing I wanted to hear.
 We don't want to create such a problem that we have to have policemen out there on the event days to try to think some rhyme or reason to parking in that decor out of it. So whether you want to go ahead and convert Church Street on back to John, I won't argue that at this point in time, but that's what's going to happen. That's going to happen. I'm only saying to the council here, for those of Church Street, from State Street to Cedar ought to be left two-way.
 Not, I mean, excuse me, one way, not two way. I just want you to think about it. I'm not saying any more than that because it really will create a problem over there that we're trying to solve because the people that come to that center are our guests. We're trying to service them the best that we can. So then the other thing I just want to remind myself every time I look at this is the same $5 billion that's
 that we look at every year is not worth $5 million. I just want to make that comment. You can go do your own calculations as to what $5 million looked like 10 years ago and what $5 million looks like today. There's almost a $2 million difference in what we can spend.
 So, when we look at these projects, I think we need to also look which ones are the most critical area in relation to the other. As far as these folks that are doing their job, thank you very much for very concise plans. And when we speak up, we're not being critical to you or what you do for Rockford, because sometimes we have some questions we need to answer. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Further discussion, I'll go to Alderman Thompson Kelly and then Alderman Logeman.
 Well, I want to thank you for my meeting with you. And I also want to thank you for looking ahead in our residential main thrills and our collectors. Because over the past several years, there hasn't been a plan for the main thrills and the collectors in the residential area. And I do appreciate the fact that you're taking the time to look at it and possibly putting a plan together and address that. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Mogler.
 Ms. Peacock, I think this question would be best for you. I know we talked about the Keith Creek widening a little bit. Could you just state again why that Keith Creek widening project has been taken off the table, and when was that decision made? I'm actually going to defer this question to Director Sackman. Oh. Director Sackman?
 The ultimate answer to that question is cost. There wasn't a funding source available outside of using Strictly City funds to do that widening. It was anticipated to cost approximately $10 to $20 million to accomplish this. We did have success with the grants for the buyouts of the properties that were affected by the 2007-2008 floods.
 And that was successful, but beyond that, we have not seen a funding source in the form of grant monies to accommodate the widening of the creek. On the plus side, by acquiring the properties, we haven't seen nearly the amount of damage from flooding issues in that area as we have in the past. It's mostly been creek flooding, even if the creek had left, even when the creek did leave its banks.
 And Mark, when was this project kind of taken off the table as a good idea to proceed with? I can't speak to that because I wasn't directly involved in that area at that time. I can certainly try and pull together some of the folks that might have been a little closer to it and try and get an answer to it. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 I will just say in addition to that, we have programmed in the year 2021 $100,000 to revisit the Keith Creek Greenway just to see if the financial climate has changed at all. So it's not something that has fallen off our radar. It's just unfortunately not something that we were able to work in at this time. But we are keeping it in our long-range plan. Okay.
 Father Munro's. Just real quick, when we received a previous draft, our award allocation was significantly higher in the previous drafts. In the newer draft, it has come down quite a bit. Can you kind of just go into an explanation as to, so residents know why it's lower?
 In the previous draft that you received, we went through a few different iterations of how we were going to structure the neighborhood program. Ultimately, we decided that we were going to leave the $5 million and then do the $1.3 million as a separate priority allocation. Unfortunately, when you guys received the first draft of the book, your totals weren't updated. However, the individual neighborhood, the base funding, and the alley allocations were correct.
 So it's just that total column when we ultimately decided to move to the $5 million base program and then the $1.3 million, we did see a change in how the dollar amount that each ward received. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for meeting with me, everyone on that. It was a very insightful meeting.
 Thank you for addressing also the elephant in the room. I had a little bit of time to ponder that and the elephant in the room is the Whitman Street interchange. So not something that I really enjoy bringing up so I'll keep it short. I have been to a couple meetings
 brought that, have had the boards and such showing the different alternatives. I know if we are going to, as brought up in the meeting, that if we are going to look for federal funding
 grants, et cetera, for this, that it can take a few years to do so. I would enjoy if we could try to hash out what design we are going to go with so we could begin ultimately looking for that funding and obviously finding out or knowing what it's going to cost.
 so then we can start allocating appropriately and start to apply for those funds. Personally, I'd like to see one that is pedestrian and bicycle friendly as much as it can be. So I'd like to see that being revisited here in the near future so we can get working on that. Thank you. Further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, thank you so much for the presentation.
 Alderman Shirely under codes and regulations for petitions and communications. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from LaFecuria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney regarding the annexation of 8526 Springbrook Road. I have a memorandum from LaFecuria Vaughn again, the Assistant City Attorney regarding the annexation of 3503 20th Street.
 A memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager, regarding the right-of-way vacation request for 2500 Latham Street. A memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the Plat No. 2 of Saltstrom Subdivision. And again, a memorandum from Scott Capovilla regarding the final plat of Ozinga City Yard Subdivision. All five of those memorandums will be referred to the Codes and Rights Committee. Thank you. And Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel.
 First is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, CIP Operations Manager, regarding the Capital Improvement Program, and this will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Next is a memorandum from Mike Hagason, the Land Transaction Officer, regarding tax abatement on foreclosure properties, also referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you.
 Third is a memorandum from Wayne Doss, Planning Administrator, regarding the proposed revolving loan project, the Coleman Village building cleanup components, also referred to Finance and Personnel. Fourth is a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, Finance Director, regarding a report from the Finance Task Force, and this will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Next, we have a bid that needs to be opened for a property at 1518 North Main Street. Drumroll, please.
 Thank you. It looks like the winning bidder is Dine Auburn LLC submitted the value for the previous land transfer in the amount of $7,943, I believe. And this will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And lastly, as a memorandum from Mike,
 Hagason, the Land Transaction Officer, regarding a contract acceptance for 5085 Browns Beach Road. And this matter will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, we have our public speakers for this evening. Oh, I'm sorry. Alderman Durkee. Sorry, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Hi.
 I have one item under Petitions and Communications, a memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager regarding the amendment to the development agreement buying between the City of Rockford and Sugar Jones, Incorporated. This will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you. I apologize for that Alderman Durkee. Next up we have our public speakers. We have five public speakers this evening. I will just remind all of our public speakers that they have three minutes.
 3 minutes to provide us their comments first public speaker this evening is I'm Mr Chad Larson thank you I just want to speak a little bit tonight about Facebook blog I'm administer and I think it would be a good way to get some information transferred from here to the actual citizen who walks the streets it's days here it's
 about twenty one hundred members strong in we started a little more than a year ago so we're well happy with the site what it is is a question and answer for a man when people ask questions and the answer and the only two rules are that the topic must stay on Rockford and also there's no personal attacks against any Illinois uh officials and I think
 or Rockford officials or any other number of R&I.
 personally comes on comes from all over Rockford and they have a real good grasp of the issues yet they will continually want to learn and I can't from doing it for a whole year that the opinions of the city are really positive among these people the election clearly showed that it's a refreshing movie star I'm not going to comment one way or another about
 for being support successful than another but there's a great optimism out there right now and I know a lot of you are very educated and very experienced at this and they're looking for you to create the solutions because we've got a lot of crime we've got a lot of negatives going on right now but there's a lot of positives to and these people are home bound they're
 they're they got kids and they don't have time to work in two minimum wage jobs they really need your help with solutions and they're really optimistic and I'm really proud of all the citizens of Rockford for coming up even though apathy rains and we had a little
 his honor was elected by an overwhelming majority and there was six different people I'd like to welcome to the group I hope to get to know all of you as the time goes on and I hope that we can get all of you to join if all of you aren't yet and we can get a question and answer session going right over the computer I know social
 media is a little bit for boring you can get kind of negative sometimes but I really like to see everybody because it's doing so much that one people are really waking up and who can really optimistic about answering the questions I thank you very much for listening to me tonight thank you thank you Mister Larson our next public speaker is Cynthia Horton Cynthia for in here
 We will come back and see if Cynthia is here at the end. Next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 23rd verse, it says, The steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about, this is a poem about the Vietnam vet. Today, let's honor the Vietnam vet.
 They serve our country, did you thank them yet? No matter what you thought of the Vietnam War, thank the veterans, we're the ones they fought for. The Vietnam vet is a person of pride, a person of honor who didn't hide. When they were called to serve us all, the Vietnam vet stood proud and tall. He left his home, family, and friends. Some never made it back home again.
 Some will shatter and will never be the same, and some will always remember their pain. Please thank a Vietnam veteran today. Look them in the eye and mean what you say. And don't be surprised to see tears in their eyes. Yes, thank a veteran while they are still alive. Welcome home, Vietnam veterans. Never again will we allow a group of veterans to be mistreated, spit in the face, to be forgotten, overlooked,
 and ignore. I also been wanting to tell my two great nieces and my two nephews and brother-in-law this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. And while I'm talking about birthdays, I also want to say happy birthday to myself today. I'm 75 years old. I want to thank God and Jesus and the Holy Ghost for taking care of all
 black boy from Long Beach, California. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Prophet, I hope I look like you at 75. Next speaker we have is Reverend Derek Shelby. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done whether it be good or bad.
 knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. 2 Corinthians 5.10 That everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he has done, whether it be good or bad. Now they had five speakers last week and I was the third speaker. So I always go home and look at the tape and it's online. And they had everybody's mic was on but mine. Now, Auderman Durkee was officiating. They cut my mic off on purpose. Okay.
 Now you can hear me here in the chambers. I know that you violate the Open Meetings Act. Just almost like a silly woman. They cut my mic off, y'all. Now listen. I'll listen to that insanity they just had about the capital improvement. Y'all stole a billion dollars from the West Side. Stole a billion dollars. Ain't put a penny back in there. They have all these meetings about spending money.
 They had the new statistics come out this week about the school expulsions. It was in the paper, 2017. They are killing black men and black males, kicking them out of school. Sixty percent of the expulsions in 2017. You're laughing and looking all funny now, but you're going to meet the Lord Jesus one day. You're going to meet the Lord Jesus one day. Going with Powered By this week, Jim Nabors.
 Charles Manson died last week, whatever how evil he was. You're going to pass one day, and you're going to appear before the judgment seat of Jesus Christ. And he's going to ask you what you've been doing all your filthy lives. Reverend, I assure you, your mic's on. Well, it wasn't on last week, Mayor. I can assure you it's on this evening.
 You're going to meet the Lord Jesus and you're going to have to answer him for all your filthy sins. Me too. Everybody. There's nobody that's excluded. We must all appear before the Lord Jesus Christ. His judgment seat. Everybody. They're kicking out more black males the last, the sixth year in a row. They kicked out more black. Sixty percent of the expulsions are black. And y'all up here, the black people got their fingers up, their foot up, their nose up.
 And don't do nothing. Nobody says nothing. Do y'all ever ride on the west side of Rockford? All you leaders here, do y'all go? I asked Alderman Rose last week. He said he does now and then. Do y'all ride through the west side of Rockford? Thank you, Reverend. Thank the Lord Jesus for it. Next public speaker we have this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Our Aldermen and Alderwomen and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28 verses 25 says, Fear of people can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form that can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear of people who can do no harm? Instead, fear of God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who
 his word. Let's talk about white privilege and hatred. I'm going to, uh, uh, uh, uh, freestyle because of the accident I've seen that happened, uh, today. Too many of our young people are running
 from the police. They have no fear of the police. They have a deep dislike towards the police. We need to start having a dialogue. They called me. They need to not only just call me, not after the fact, but before the fact.
 I'm calling out because a lot of people turn in to see us talking and giving our speech here at City Hall. We need to do more than just talk. I was appalled when we had the town hall meeting at Kingdom Authority Church that Monday.
 Our folks came here cussing out the mayor, cussing out the chief of police. That's not the solution to that. When we had a town hall meeting, that was the time to have a dialogue. I was very impressed to see how many white
 individuals that was there and they were speaking in our behalf. We should be there at these meetings and speaking for ourselves. I am sick and tired and being hurt by the number, as he mentioned, the number of our young people that's getting kicked out of school and they have a deep dis-hatred for our law enforcement, for our system. We need them to call your arguments, to call your pastors,
 and let's sit down and have a dialogue, not just have a dialogue, but let's talk about a solution to build up our relationship with the power of the beast and with the people that live in the system. I wanted to talk about tonight with Chad, he always show up at my meeting, I thank you and whatnot, and Linda McNally because the residents of North Main Mound of Clive, John have all these kids coming to North Main Mound for these different events and so for Christmas
 On the 16th of December, we're going to have a Christmas dinner at Fairgrounds. We've got Lutheran Church that's setting it out. We've got other agencies that's going to be there. We've got politicians that's running for office that's going to help serve the food. Chad, you're my argument in my ward, but everybody thinks I'm the community advocate.
 community in all these other wars and I'm not but yet I'm in all these other wars and we'd love to see you there from 2 to 5 o'clock for when we do our Christmas dinner at fairgrounds and we're going to be sitting there now that's what I wanted to talk about I wanted to talk about us raising this will be our 5th year raising $950 to take 50 of our kids to the Harlem Gold Travelers game this year thank you
 I'll check one more time if Cynthia Horton is here. Okay. Thank you to all the public speakers. Alderman Durkee, do you have any plenty in development items under new committee report? No. They don't want to forget you a second time. Codes and regulations, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends the approval of the annexation of 2816 Rice Avenue.
 First item, second, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a 20 mile an hour school speed limit on Turner Street from Ridgeview Avenue to Flint Ridge Drive. The third, the committee recommends taking no action on the following items, request to establish a four-way stop control at the intersection of Arthur Avenue and North Day Avenue, thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of Arthur Avenue and North Day Avenue.
 the request to establish traffic control at Vermont Street and Arlene Avenue I have a third is a request to install additional street lighting across on 18th Avenue between 23rd Street and 24th Street 2700 block of 18th Avenue fourth is a committee recommends approval of the proposal 1329th Street the fifth the committee recommends approval of the proposal 1246 Corbin Street
 And the sixth is 8201 East Riverside Boulevard. That's the sign variation request by Mercy Hospital being referred back to the ZBA that we have the committee meeting on this evening, Your Honor. I place all those items up for passage. Thank you. With those items up for passage, is there discussion on any of the six items? Alderman McNeil. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Are we voting on them? Voting to send it back to the zoning board. Thank you.
 Any other discussion on the six items before us? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman, Toomberg, Frost, Hervey, Irvins, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli, 13 ayes. Thank you. And Alderman Frost for the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 The committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,723,957.79 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on November 27, 2017. Number two, the committee recommends the approval of the sale of the property located at 4608 Auburn Street to the highest bidder, David Warfel of Rockford, Illinois for his bid of $7,000. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approving the application for federal grant funds for Head Start and early Head Start services for the period of April 1, 2018 through June 30, 2018. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approving the 2017 proposed property tax levy ordinance prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of
 $54,696,106 for the levies in the corporate police protection, police pension, school crossing guards, fire protection, fire pension, street and bridge, judgments, tuberculosis sanitarium, public library, public library maintenance of buildings, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers' compensation, and auditing funds. The final city levy amount will be approximately
 $47,316,106 per the attached memo. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approving the 2017 tax levy for street and bridge purposes from six-tenths of a percent of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford to...
 0.10% of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue of all taxable property in the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the 2017 property tax abatement ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those matters before you. Thank you. For those six matters, is there any discussion? No.
 Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, as I scroll to a few different pages here. I have a question for human services on a part of this going out. I see there's
 I guess for some of the newer aldermen here, including myself, I saw that there was $20,000 plus going out to shelter care. Could you explain some of the reasons when I see it broken down into chronic request?
 Can you clarify that? I apologize for not having a chance to call you this week on this, but I thought maybe some of the newer aldermen, too, could. Chronic request is one of the, subdivided into that, RRHTH request. Can you clarify just briefly what some of those mean? Just to give a quick...
 Explanation, the emergency solutions grant is actually categorized by the specific type of service. So when we put out a sub-grant, we have to identify not only that they're eligible for the
 the funding under the emergency solutions, but also the particular kind of service they're providing. So those descriptions define the kind of service that they're actually proposing to provide. Chronic refers to serving a population that meets the definition of chronic homelessness.
 And the rapid rehousing, which is I think the other set of alphabet soup that you were referring to, refers to the ability to quickly get someone into housing that is already homeless and then provide supportive services to them up to 18 months while they are stabilized in terms of income and permanency.
 So, it's an extension of what normally would be a temporary housing solution for up to 18 months. Okay. So, that, all right, so RHTH and there's, like you said, an alphabet soup of different subdivisions in this, in these requests. So that's essentially what it is.
 Right, and the third funding, the third organization that we're funding there is Rockford MEL, which is historically provides support for young moms, you know, teen moms and young moms up to age 21 who are homeless and also are single parents.
 And so that's a particular category or a particular population that they're serving. And then we also provide some services to the women's shelter that's provided through Remedy. So each of them is serving a different population and really has a particular target for the kind of service that they're doing. I'd be happy to go into much more explanation if it's helpful.
 at some point, but just as a very quick, and I know probably not completely thorough interview. There was a lot of abbreviations under some of those. Yes, sir. So, yes, thank you. Would you just very quickly, would you say on most of those grants, federal funded through grants versus local taxpayer money? These are all dollars that come through HUD. So they're all federal funds, and there's no local tax dollars involved. Thank you.
 Thank you. Is there further questions under the six items we have up right now? Seeing no further discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. 13 ayes, Your Honor. Aye.
 Thank you. Next up we have officers reports. I just have two reports. One is we will be getting out to all the aldermen a mechanical board appointment that we've been looking for for some time. It's for a commercial refrigeration expert.
 which is a little hard to find for the mechanical board. And that gentleman's name is Gregory Harley, who will be serving a five-year term filling a vacancy for the license holder in refrigeration. So you will all receive that by email, and it will also be on your desk with the resume at next week's meeting, and it will hold over for at least 30 days.
 Last thing I want to mention is I know it's been in the paper, at least online right now, that Mr. John B. Anderson passed away, certainly significant to our community and to the service he's given to our country. I believe he served, I think it was 10 years or 10 terms as a congressman.
 was probably the first or one of the first viable independent candidates who bucked parties based on his values and beliefs. And overall, I never had the opportunity to meet him, but overall from what I've heard, just a tremendous person. And as an individual, and I believe he was 
 I believe his wife Kiki is still living and I think they have five kids and eleven grandkids. So thoughts and prayers are certainly with them and their entire family during that difficult time. Is there additional officers reports?
 Alderman Herbert. Thank you, Your Honor. First, I have to echo with regard to John B. Anderson. My parents always supported him and voted for him, and he was the example they always gave me when they said, forget what party someone is from. It doesn't matter. Look at what the person does. Look at what they support. Look at their character.
 and make your decision based on that. So, certainly condolences to the family. He was an amazing person. I was always very proud that he was from Rockford for that purpose. On a lighter note, this Saturday, December 9th, from noon till 2, the Fifth Ward and Orchid Neighborhood Group will have, once again, our joint Christmas and holiday event.
 It's going to be from noon till 2 at the Jane Addams Community Center, right there at the roundabout. It's the large building. It's either the 500 block of, well, 500 block of seminary, right there at the corner of Seminary and College Avenue.
 Excuse me, we're asking everyone to bring a couple dozen cookies to share. We're going to have cocoa, coffee, conversation. We said with the community and cops, but we also understand that's shop with the cop day.
 So we're inviting not just our police officers, city staff, our fire departments, anyone who wants to stop by, certainly city council members. We make the best cookies in town. There will be a huge variety. We also get some from Roma Bakery, so you know they'll be good. And it's just a chance for us to get together and enjoy each other's company. So this year we eliminated some of the extraneous stuff so we have more time for each other because that's what people enjoy.
 So again, from noon till 2 at the Jane Addams Community Building, and that's going to be this Saturday the 9th. Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you. Further officers' reports?
 Alderman Boogman. Just real quick. Tomorrow there's going to be a little neighborhood summit at Roll on Tap at 7 p.m. to address some of the neighborhood concerns about the massage parlor over on North Prospect Street, I know. I appreciate Legal Director Meyer will be there in attendance to address neighborly concerns. Alderman Beach will be there.
 Alderman Thunberg and myself. So any concerned residents, stop by Royal ONTAP tomorrow at 7 p.m., thank you. Thank you. And Alderman Roach? I just came to my attention that there was a plane crash at the Rockford Airport and just wanted to extend our thoughts and prayers with those people that are being treated. Thank you, Alderman Roach.
 Alderman Toomey. Yes, thank you. And in relation to Alderman Logan, what he was talking about, anyone who would like to go to learn more about the ordinance, I would encourage to come. And after that, take a stroll along our beautiful bike path and see what a great job the Rockford Park District did on the lights along the Mississippi Gardens there. Beautiful. Good job. Thank you.
 Thank you. Further officers' reports? I'm seeing no further reports. We'll move on to appointments laid over. Dennis Rich for the Community Action Advisory Board remains laid over until our next council meeting under motions and resolutions. Alderman Durkee, do you have any? Just making sure I don't forget you again. Alderman Chiarelli for Codes and Regulations.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item this evening. It's a resolution for the placement of home rule on the ballot for March 20, 2018. Place that up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Purvey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you.
 Thank you. That motion passes. Moving on to financing personnel. Alderman Frost. Board of RFP for emergency solutions grant to MELD for $31,676. In rapid rehousing and prevention, MELD $25,000. In shelter services and operations, shelter care ministries, $25,000. In shelter services and operations, remedies, $25,000. In shelter services and operations...
 and the Institute for Community Alliances, 29,000 for Homeless Management Information Services. The funding source is the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. I place this matter before you. Thank you. Is there discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye.
 Beach, Quinones, McMeeley, Shirely. 13 I, Shirely. Thank you. Under new business, Alderman Shirely. First item is an ordinance approving the annexation of 2816 Rice Avenue. This is the property...
 This property is contiguous to the municipal boundaries and can be annexed into the city of Rockford. Second is an ordinance establishing a 20-mile-an-hour school speed limit on Turner Street from Ridgeview Avenue to Flint Ridge Drive. The third is an ordinance approving the sale of 1329th Street. The fourth is an ordinance approving the sale of 1246 Corbin Street. I place these ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Mr. Discussion. On the four items before us, the second?
 Seeing no other men can you thank you. Mr. Mayor just a question regarding the properties that are up for sale. They are first given priority to adjacent property holders. Is that correct? Alderman or a city administrator tag not.
 That is correct. These did not go through the Moda Own program why they're coming to you directly, but they are for adjacent property owners. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Kaufman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye.
 13 ayes. Excellent. Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel. Thank you. First, we have the ordinance approving the sale of the property located at 4608 Auburn Street to the highest bidder, David Warfel of Rockville, Illinois for his bid of $7,000. Number two is an ordinance approving the application for federal grant funds for Head Start and Early Head Start services for the period from April 1st through June 30th, 2018. Number three is the 2017 proposed property tax levy ordinance.
 prepared by the finance director and accepted in the amount of $54,696,106 for the levies in the corporate police protection, police pension, school crossing guards, fire protection, fire pension, state and bridge, judgements, tuberculosis sanitarium, public library, public library maintenance of buildings, Illinois municipal retirement, unemployment compensation, workers compensation and auditing funds.
 The final city levy amount will be approximately $47,316,106 per the attached memo. Number four is an ordinance approving the 2017 tax levy for street and bridge purposes from six-tenths of one percent to one percent of the value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue on all taxable property in the City of Rockford.
 Number five is an ordinance approving the 2017 property tax abatement ordinance I place these items in front of you to be voted on. Thank you Is there any discussion on the fight of five items before us seeing no discussion clerk? We please call the roll turkey Logoman to burn frost Herbie Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's McNeely
 Shirely, 13 eyes. Alderman Shirely, do you have any special news for us this evening? Not this evening, Your Honor. Awesome. Is there a second? All those in favor, say aye. All those opposed, same sign. Excellent. Have a wonderful night.