Personnel Committee. Alderman Hervey, Alderman Beck is not here. Do you want to take that? Yeah, thanks. Yes, this is for an award of bid for Fire Station No. 7 for the fence relocation. That will go to Rock Valley Fence of Lost Park for their bid of $41,800. The funding source is the Mercy Rockford Health System permitting fees. Thank you. Is there discussion? No discussion.
 Hearing no discussion on the item, alert, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Goetjes. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Beach. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes, Your Honor. Thank you. The matter passes. There were a number of aldermen who approached me and asked for an opportunity for an officer's report, so Alderman Thompson-Kelly has a number of resolutions. She wants to...
 That was kind of a joke, but probably not. But she had her hand up first. Go ahead, Allerman Thompson-Kelley. Thank you, Alan. I'd like to put on the floor resolution, some resolutions. FY 2017 to 2019 Capital Improvement Program develop an Altaria and Collector Project for all 14th wards for funding source of sales tax.
 Also under resolutions, Alderman to review the residential quality support ordinance, Article 3, renewed, is to be renewed every two years. The chronic nuisance, nuisance activity, housing board, as well as outstanding fines and fees.
 Also a resolution consulting service for Auburn Street Corridor for design and a development action plan from Rockton Avenue to Day Avenue, the funding source of sales tax. Thank you. Thank you. Those, do you want them referred to P&D or to finance? Thank you. That is very referred. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a quick announcement. We had planned to have sort of a cookie and cup
 coffee and cocoa event this Saturday at the RHA building at Seminary and College. Due to several conflicts and timing, we're going to postpone our fifth ward holiday event until a little after the holiday. There were just too many things bumping heads and we want to have a good turnout and have a good plan, so that will be postponed to our January meeting or somewhere in January.
 Thank you. Alderman Odo, then back to Alderman Tomsakilla. I would like to say thank you to Matt Vintner and Mark Stockman. I got nothing, no calls regarding lack of plowing. I went...
 around, it was great. It was beautiful. Things were taken care of in a timely manner. The only thing that I see an issue with, especially for the elderly, is the way everything piles up at the mouth of the driveway, the snow banks, and I don't know if there's an easy fix for that.
 Also, I would like Todd to maybe search this for me. I know that we gave direction to have a cell tower put up.
 and I can't remember that whole scenario. And if I could get the paperwork, and also when high-speed internet came into my eighth ward, if there's a way to find that out, there's misinformation going around and I'm getting residents calling me
 because there are people going around saying that they spearheaded the whole cell tower coming. And so I don't have the information with me, and I can't remember offhand how everything began. So if I could get that information so that I could get that out to the residents, I would appreciate it. Thank you.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley had one then back to Alderman McNeely and then there was a hand up here, Alderman Frost. We are in the office, right? Yes. Technically, there is no item called officers reports. We're shoehorning it. Did I get that right? We're throwing it in there, so I don't see it on there. I'm sure you want to do a resolution. So it's jazz. We're making this up as we go along. Go ahead. Want to do a resolution for that? Well. I want to thank the residents of the phone calls and emails that I have received.
 voicing their concerns about the CIP and the 1% sales tax and the different projects that is coming before us. I do appreciate all your comments and all your concerns. Well noted. And I want to thank you for your comments that you've given me over the past week. It's been overwhelming. And I do appreciate all of your comments and all of your e-mails. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, then Alderman Frost.
 Mr. Mayor, I received a phone call regarding the snow plow. I thought that you did an excellent job. However, every year there's the problem with the snow plows, with the driveways and the alleyways where it's piling up. I don't know that there is an answer for that. Just wanting to share that with you. One individual is very irate.
 But we have the same complaints every year, so I don't know how we can address that. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate the shoehorning in the officer's reports. Normally I don't like to make personal comments, but December 12th marks the birthday I've lived with my whole life. Not only is it the birthday of Frank Sinatra, Bob Barker, and Deanne Warwick, but the most important person in my life is my mother, Louise Frost.
 And it's her birthday today, so I just wanted to, I don't know if she's still watching or not, but if she's awake, happy birthday. So thank you. Absolutely. If you want to take a vote, a resolution. I'm afraid I may lose the vote with me lately, so I'm going to take a pass. Maybe make a resolution. Congratulations, Mrs. Frost. I was going to tell her she can be proud. He's a nice person to have sitting next to you. Oh, thank you very much. I appreciate that. I keep saying that. Thank you.
 Any further officers' reports? I'll let them hear me. A real quick comment, and this is about the streets and the snow plowing. I drove through areas of the Fifth Ward, and there is so much noncompliance with odd even. You go to some streets, and it's clean as a whistle, curb to curb. You go to others, and there are five cars. I'm wondering if we can contract with ABM or someone, because I looked, and none of them had tickets.
 And you could tell they hadn't been moved. They've got eight inches of snow on them and they're just buried. I'm glad they're buried in. But at the same time, I'm wondering if we could contract with ABM to issue $50 tickets. You keep $25 for some portion of it so we can get those cars ticketed. It's out of control. I counted three snow plows that were snowed in.
 parked on the street and I've got a lot of commercial vehicles that park on the street, trucks. And when they move, they just push that snow right back into the street. So I've got huge noncompliance and I know it's a problem for the plows and I would like to see some enforcement action. So we will ask staff for some options on that. Mr. Ryan could work with that. We've done periodic enforcements depending, you know, we've done some intensive stuff but
 Mr. Ryan, did you want to say? We had enforcement going on yesterday, but if we're having specific really difficult compliance areas, love to know the streets and addresses for that. Thank you. If other council members have areas they want to identify, please work with staff to make those areas known.
 Can we get, we have a request for a closed session. Does somebody want to make that motion? Who is, sorry, we need the details on that. Mr. Getsch, let me get you. I move to go into closed session to discuss pending litigation. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to go into closed session in order to discuss pending and or threatened litigation matters.
 Is there any discussion? Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Natchez. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Beach. McNeely. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 ayes. The motion carries. We will recess for the purposes of a closed session in order to discuss pending or threatened litigation matters.