Let us pray. Gracious God, thank you for the leadership of this city, for entrusting them with wisdom and guidance in their decision making. Thank you for our first respondents who are always on line of duty, protecting citizens. Help us, oh God, as citizens to be able to continue to pray and intercede and be citizens that raise our voice and concern in an appropriate way that will be heard by our leaders.
 Grant them wisdom tonight. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Getchis. McNamara. Frost. Connell. Odo. Thompson-Kelly. Newberg. Odo.
 Beach Elliott McNeely Chiarelli 11 present here. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum we have two journals that need approval is there a motion to accept the This is motions to accept the journals for the City Council meeting held December 5th 2016 and the proceedings for the special City Council meeting held in December 12 2016 and
 Are there any amendments or changes to either of those journals or procedure or proceedings? Hearing none, clerk please, I'm sorry, hearing none, all those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Aye. Savitt, thank you. I would ask Alderman Goetzes who is filling in tonight as Vice Chair of Finance and Personnel for Alderman Beck if he could run the public hearing on the 2017 budget and appropriation ordinance. Thank you. I hereby call the public hearing on the proposed 2017 budget and appropriation ordinance to order.
 Pursuant to 65 Illinois complied statutes 582-9-2006, a public hearing must be conducted by the City Council prior to the adoption of an appropriation ordinance. Notice of the hearing was given by publication of the Rockford Register Star on December 1st, 2016. That notice informed citizens of Rockford that a copy of the proposed budget
 An appropriation ordinance could be reviewed in the Finance Department third floor City Hall building, 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. The proposed budget was also available online on the city's website. Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed appropriation ordinance? If so, please kindly step to the microphone, give us your name, address, and make your statement. There are two microphones available.
 Hearing no comments from the general public, is there any comments from city council? Okay. Hearing none, the public hearing is hereby adjourned. Thank you, Alderman Gatchus. We'll move on now to our public speakers this evening. We have several speakers sign up for public participation this evening. And I want to remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments. They start to go over there a lot of time. I'll ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Jim Buckingham.
 It's been a long time. I hope I can still remember how to do this. Let's see here. 28 October, 1924 hours. Received a phone call from my apartment foyer, Old City Hall Apartments that I manage, demanding I let somebody in. He was drunk, and when I replied, I was at home. I was not going to be able to let him in. He says, how about I break your windows? He says, how about I call the cops and have you arrested? I said, okay.
 I immediately called one of the tenants and said, call the cops, I'll be there in a few minutes. I showed up, there was three squads in the back. The guy was full of blood, finally admitted that he had broke the window in the apartment that he had tried to gain access to, evidently lost his keys. I told the police I wanted him arrested. The officer said after we stop at the hospital, have him arrested. 20, 33 hours, I got a call from the officer stating he could not arrest the tenant, it was a civil matter. Um...
 He said he had asked several folks at the police department, couldn't do it. A couple hours later he showed up with his mommy and threw eggs at my building. 16 November approximately fifteen hundred hours. My security guy and I, yes I paid to have a security guy over there with me, we went up to a chicken apartment that was just vacated through the eviction process. It was trashed.
 I called the police at 1540 hours to inspect the residence. After the police arrived, they inspected and said, this is a civil matter, we need to prove intent. But they were cited for stealing my refrigerator. I wonder if the police know where to make the, but I was asked.
 Things that were removed and missing. Door to the fuse box, cabinet doors, many door hinges after they were broken, the blinds, four or five of them at $100 apiece. The cords were cut, every one of them. Gouges in the wall with screwdrivers, bathroom faucets missing, metal base heater stolen. I'm wondering if I can prove intent. Let's see, 1048.
 five hours, called District 2 police and requested, this was two days later, requested a new incident report for the initial damage. I got nothing. 21 November, Monday night, I talked with the police chief, said I had several incidences that I need to be resolved with him. The next morning at 9.10, I received a call from Officer Diller. This was 22 November, what's today, 19 December, still nothing. Okay.
 Then on 9 December there was something going on at City Hall, Friday evening, I don't recall. But I got a call from one of my tenants saying there's no parking spaces available in our little parking spaces over there. Mr. Buckingham, your time is up, if you could wrap up. Okay. And then we had a police officer came out there and told one of my tenants, I'm a police officer, I can park wherever I want. Then he turned his lights on because he had an unmarked car.
 That stuff needs to stop and I think I'm owed an explanation. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Luke, the third chapter, the 11th verse, it says, Let the man who has two tonics share with him who has none, and let him who has full do likewise.
 what I want to speak about tonight seeing Jesus in others it's interesting that in Jesus description of this judgment the righteous are not even aware that they were ministering to Jesus when they reached out to help the needy chapter 25th of Matthew's 40th verse is a key here is what Jesus want for Christmas he wants us to help the poor and needy people can't pay us back for our service but it's
 more direct here in today's text according to these verses. What Jesus wants, what Jesus needs for his birthday is something to eat because he's hungry. He's thirsty and would love something to drink. He's naked and needs some clothes. He's lonely and needs a friend and he's in prison and needs a visitor. That's what Jesus wants and needs for Christmas. But the righteous say, Jesus,
 I don't remember ever seeing you hungry, thirsty, lonely, naked or in prison. Jesus tell him if you help anyone in need, you are looking at me. See what Jesus want is for us, for you and me to do something for another one of his children.
 who cannot do something for us in return. He wants us to touch a life to meet a need in another part of his family. He wants us to invest in the lives of other brothers and sisters. When we do that, we are acting like kingdom people and we get a kingdom reward. Jesus tells us to do exactly what he did when he walked
 among us. So what I am saying is that we Christians are the continuation and extension of the incarnation. God became flesh that he might minister men. Now he works through you and me, people of flesh, to keep on ministering men. If you want to exchange gifts with people who are going to give you a gift in return, that's fine. That's how the world defines Christmas. But it's not necessary Christmas. Christmas happened when you and I do what
 We could not repay them for the gift of salvation. The only kind of people Jesus helped are those who can't repay him. And that's all of us. Think about it. We've got to stop letting the world define our holiday. You've got all these churches in Rockford, and you've got all these homeless people. If 20 churches, 20 churches, they talk about Jesus all the time. If 20 churches put 20 people in each one of these churches,
 For this cold weather, that will be doing something for Jesus. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Mr. Haldeman here. Next, we have Mr. John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, our Aldermen and our women, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 James, King James Version says,
 by my work. I won't talk about Donald Trump because I talked about him yesterday about the electoral that's happening today as we speak. Now, a lot of people feel that the vote, they vote does not count. That's not true. Come down to the local election, your vote do count right here in Rockford. I'm running for Third Ward, Alderman. There are two other people that are running for Third Ward, Tom McNamara, office. Nevertheless,
 He's running for mayor. I asked around, I have been around, when these two individuals come from, where are they at before the election was going on and what do they have to offer? I'm not running because I want to run, I'm running because the people in the community want me to run and have been asking me for the past few years to run. This is what we have been doing in the community, not just talking but walking the walk. We was at the YMCA Campus Life event on Thursday
 We'd like to thank the RHA van and the single mom that drove her van. This helped us to take 20 of our youth from Fairgrounds to the RHA board meeting and downtown office, and then we was off to the YMCA. This is what the director, Mrs. Barnett, had to say. Tonight we are having our Campus Life Christmas party. We would like to be inside the YMCA on the third floor at the Edward Lounge again. Just want to make sure
 you knew. Hope to see you and your kids again. We will have delicious food and the kids will be leaving with a present at the end. We have a great time with food, games, basketball and other sports. We was at the event on Saturday at the second Congregational Presbyterian Church. They had a program talking about violence against violence. They are not talking, they were ready and willing to work with our youth to make that transformation happen.
 Then on Sunday we would take the Ethnic Heritage Museum from Slade Quarter to Kilwana, to Kilwansa. Today we are going to the library for yoga class in the auditorium. Coming up on December 27th, we'll be going to see the Harlem Gold Traveler game. I was stunned to hear and learn that some of our youth had never heard of the Harlem Gold Traveler. Some of their parents who had heard about them never had been or seen one of their games. I was also stunned to hear that some of our youth
 have learned that some of them did not know what 9-1-1 was or mean, plus what is Kiwanis? I knew then and now that we have to work on teaching our youth about their history and American history. We deeply want to thank all the sponsors that have been helping the Renewal Turning Point program work with our at-risk youth. You cannot transform Rockford without the people that are volunteering their time and energy.
 we are not going to lower crime and poverty without the community involvement. Today is the day I am going to stop worrying or letting this one individual stop us from working with our at-risk youth. With the high number of young people that are out there committing crime, our law enforcement needs all the help that they can get. And they start with us, volunteering all our time and skill. This is bigger than me. Nevertheless,
 I'm in it for life. We cannot work together in helping our people that need our help, or if not, we will still be the third most miserable city in Rockford. We are looking at working with our youth in programs and events that will give them something to do during...
 and after school and on the weekend. We do not have any funds but what we do have is faith that work will be done. I want to thank you but I also want our youth to learn because of some of our youth asked John, what's going to happen when you're not here?
 And my thing is, it's not what's going to happen when I'm not here. It's what's going to happen when one of them take my place because they are our future generation and they are the ones that are still going to be here. So they need, just like I took them for Rockford Housing Authority board meeting, I'm bringing them to the city council meeting so they can see a little bit of how the city council works. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. And welcome to the young people that are here.
 Thank you. Mr. Haldeman didn't come in, did he? All right. Thank you. Petitions and communications. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three memoranda from Vicki Hansen. The first is a memorandum from Vicki Hansen, Housing and Program Manager, regarding 528 7th Street.
 This is a request for forgiveness of loan and it's referred to Planning and Development. Second memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager. This is regarding 1055 East State Street and it's an extension for two years.
 This is referred to Planning and Development. And the third, also from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County Health Department for lead clearance inspections. These, all three will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you, matters will be referred. Chairman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items tonight. One is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda and the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda.
 both for the same evening, for the meeting to be held on December 20th, 2016, and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 3rd, 2017. Both of those items will be referred to the Codes and Regs Committee, Your Honor. Matters to be referred. Only Getsis. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Two items to refer, a memorandum from Matt Bittner, Director of Public Works, Engineer regarding jurisdictional transfer of Bell School Road from Lucky Lane to Argus Drive out of the Winnebago County Highway System and into the City of Rockford Street System, and a memorandum from Kerry Eklund, Finance Director, regarding the 2015 audit, also referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you very much. Next, matters will be referred. Next on our agenda, we have a presentation that is scheduled.
 on the year two results of our work with Marathon Health. Paul Denham, our Human Resources Director, will be introducing Marathon. Paul, do you want to come up or do you want to just do it from your chair? I can do it from my chair, but is there a microphone? Yeah, I will hand the microphone. And our Marathon folks, if you want to start coming up. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Approximately 28 months ago, the city's wellness center opened its doors to our employees as well as their dependents. Tonight we have Mr. Tim Reynolds from Marathon Health's corporate headquarters. He's our account manager all the way from Winooski, Vermont, coming to present on data that we've accumulated over the first two years of the wellness center.
 Before I turn it over to Mr. Reynolds, I just also want to note that members of the Wellness Center staff are in attendance tonight in the corner back here. If anyone has visited the Wellness Center, you probably have met with one or more of those individuals. So thank you.
 Thank you very much Tim. And after his presentation I'll say a few remarks and we'll have a little time if we'd like for Q&A.
 Thank you. It's a real pleasure to be back here again. I think I was here just about a year ago to share our first-year results from operations at Core Wellness. I've got about 15 slides or so I'd like to go through today, a number of specific metrics about our operations at Core Wellness. But I think the three main takeaways that I'd like to focus on today are –
 The level of engagement of eligible members that we are seeing, so employees, their spouses, and their children on the health plan, continue to increase, those that are coming through our doors.
 We are seeing very positive health improvements, health outcomes for those that we are working with on a regular basis. And as a result, we believe that we're showing considerable savings for the City of Rockford's health plan. So those are the three high-level numbers. I know the agenda slide before focused on some specific items that we'll look at in terms of the data slide, but I think those are the three main takeaways from the information that I'd like to share with you all tonight.
 Just a quick level set, Marathon Health's model of care, this isn't your typical healthcare experience. What we're trying to do is manage the health of the population we serve. This slide up here indicates that cycle of management, which for us is identifying risk factors that exist in the population. So high blood pressure, chronic conditions, indicators like that that would reflect the relative health of the population that we're serving.
 Our goal is to mitigate that risk, so to reduce those risk factors. And we do that through engaging those patients specifically that might be at risk for, you know, that high blood pressure, that hypertension that I mentioned before. Ultimately, we're hoping to change the utilization of the health care system of those individuals by improving their health and, in turn, capture savings for the city's health plan.
 So again, some very specific numbers here. I think many of you have these slides in front of you. I'll focus on those three main takeaways of engaging a higher percentage of the eligible population for these services, improving the health outcomes of those individuals, and in turn, saving money for the city's health plan.
 This slide's a snapshot of where we were, both including those 12 months that I shared data from last year, as well as the following 12 months. So this data is through September of 2016. The red line indicates where we projected to be. We wanted to see half of the employee population having a visit with one of our medical providers at Core Wellness. And at the end of this data window, we were at 57 percent, so 564 employees who had come through our doors for a medical visit.
 On the dependent side, we had projected 20% of that population at the end of year two. And again, we're six points above that with 500 dependents coming through the door for a medical visit in that period of time. This slide breaks down acute visits and then health coaching or preventive medical visits in the blue, which again is a chief focus for us in terms of that model of care, trying to engage patients in preventive care, lifestyle coaching, behavioral change,
 chronic condition management to help drive those health outcomes and ultimately those savings. Here we're looking at that engagement level and we're also including any visit to the health center for an occupational health service, a lab draw, any of those aforementioned. That does bring our level up to 80 percent of the employee population having come through the doors for care, 33 percent of spouses, and 24 percent of children.
 If we break that data down one additional level to focus on bargaining unit, again, I think the takeaway from this slide is that we're seeing a relative increase in each of these respective bargaining units of the employee population. The most significant increase here in the AFSCME population
 AFSCME B and C, as well as the fire union, which increased 8% in terms of engagement year over year. That distinction there in the gray bar as opposed to the blue and the green, again, is visits with a medical provider as opposed to occupational health or lab services.
 Again, sort of our model of care, and I think the focus there is that we're able to convert that type of visit, someone walking through the doors for a sore throat into an ongoing relationship that supports that patient's optimal health. I'd like to share just a brief story, I think that sort of encapsulates this. There's a number of data points in these slides, but I think the real takeaway is that
 What's driving these changes is an individual who is making changes in their health and walks through that value proposition that I laid out there.
 We had a 15-year-old boy come through the doors with his parents for a school physical during the summer. This was a service that we were promoting to increase engagement among the dependent population. And what typically is a routine physical where papers are signed, vaccinations are checked, really turned into a much deeper dive because of the time and the ability to connect with our patients that our provider had at that point of care. That school physical was a service that we were promoting to increase engagement among the dependent population.
 Turned into the identification of a pre-diabetic condition. This child had some indications, and I'm not clinical, so I may stumble across this, but a discoloration around the neck that was indicative of insulin resistance. And because our provider had the time to dig into these labs, bring that patient back, and work not only with that young child, but also with the family to address dietary issues, lifestyle, exercise, etc.,
 the individual made some changes and came back four months later having drastically lowered those lab values and also noticeably feeling the difference, feeling those changes in their health. And I think as a 15-year-old, that's a pretty significant outcome when the age is still young enough for those changes to really have a drastic effect and potentially turn around a medical condition that could have become a chronic one.
 So I think that example sort of highlights our model of care, what we're trying to accomplish. And while we may be looking at some numbers here, that's a specific anecdote of the people that are really behind this population health model.
 In terms of screening and risk identification, we had about 80% of the employee population participate in the incented annual screening events. From that information as well as the claims data, we flagged about 57% of that population as either already having or at risk of developing a chronic condition.
 And in terms of engaging that particular subset of the group that we think is driving the cost behind the health plan, we grew those numbers in year two pretty significantly over year one, up to 64 percent of that high and chronic employee population and 45 percent of that dependent population. And I think the real takeaway here from this slide is that –
 You know, the story I just shared, there are countless examples like that where we've got patients who are walking through our doors and we're truly making a tremendous difference in their lives, whether that be saving the life of someone who comes through with an unidentified cardiac condition or helping someone along that slow, arduous path that each of us have gone down in terms of trying to make a hard habit.
 change, and that takes time, it takes support, it takes relationships, and I think that's something our model of care has been able to provide the patients that we've engaged here in Rockford.
 So we talked about engagement. Now I want to look at outcomes. This slide, which may be hard to see for those in the audience, but those that have this in front of them, we're looking at 68% of those unique patients that I mentioned on the previous slide in terms of risk identification. So that's an individual that might have one or more biomarkers outside of a normal range. So they may have high blood pressure. Their glucose might be high. Their lipid panel could have been off.
 of those individuals are showing clinically measurable improvement on at least one of those risk factors in these two years that we've been open. We compare that to our book of business. We operate health centers around the country for municipalities, large self-insured employers like yourself, and we're significantly outstripping that benchmark there, which is the gray bar at about 58% to the right. So again, we're seeing more patients coming through our doors. These patients are getting healthier.
 We'll look specifically at a couple of these risk factors. Again, my apologies if this slide is hard to see, but we've got three bars here. The one on the left are the individuals that we are patients that we have not engaged in preventive medical services at the health center. The one in the middle is those that have had one or more visit. And the bar on the right, again, in both of these graphs,
 is those that have had four or more coaching visits, so those that are really truly engaged in our services, and the size of that population is below those numbers there. And I think, again here, we're seeing a pretty significant statistical difference between those that are really engaged in our service and are coming through for repeat visits
 are showing drastically larger improvements in decreasing that risk factor. This slide specifically looks at diastolic blood pressure on the left and total cholesterol on the right. So again, those that are coming through our doors repeatedly are showing greater improvements in their health than those that are not.
 This is a similar slide that is looking at the trend of those risk factors over time. So again, blood pressure, glucose, how are those relative risk rates changing over time? We're looking at three time periods that we've been open. So the biometric screening event just before Marathon Health opened services at Core Wellness in 2014, and then the following two mass screening periods.
 And what we're looking for here is a declining rate of those risk factors to the right. So as we add a third year here, we'd like to see that number continue to go down. So BMI is the top number, so that's body mass index. We're seeing that remain relatively flat, which compared really, I guess, to the rest of the country, we know that that is a pandemic or an epidemic here.
 in the United States and something that is positive for us to see that for those 263 individuals we're not seeing a net increase for those individuals. Blood pressure and total cholesterol again decreasing prevalence rates across the board. So what's the financial impact? What does this mean for the city's health plan?
 Cumulatively, over the last two years, we're seeing a $3.5 million savings below this projection of 6.5% medical inflation. This graph is showing the members covered on the city's health plan.
 the paid claims in each month and then that projection line across the board. In year two, that's $1.65 million below projection and the estimated ROI there when we take into account the cost of operating core wellness is about a two to one return on investment for the city of Rockford. Lastly, I wanted to take a quick look at patient satisfaction.
 Some of the three drivers I think that we measure as an organization are reducing the cost of care, improving the health of the population, and also improving that patient experience when they come through our doors and meet with our health care providers. Last year we showed a satisfaction rate of about 82%. This year we saw a net increase from these 141 responses, so roughly,
 just about 10% of our patient population responding to this survey, that were either satisfied or very satisfied. So 90% satisfied or very satisfied with our survey. And a number of comments and inputs to other questions in that question that help inform our operations for the year to come. This is just an overview of those key metrics that I went through before, and I think I'm out of time, so I'm happy to answer any questions that may have come up. Yes? Yes.
 Alderman, I'll let the call in folks. That's right. Alderman Gatchus. Yes. Two questions, one for you and then one for Mr. Ryan. Back on slide number seven, I'm seeing that the bargaining unit's participation, Ask Me BNC is at 78 percent for coaching, which is essentially twice what every other group is. Is there anything that you think accounts for that success in that percentage?
 Yeah, I think one driver there, and we've seen this effect similarly on increasing screening rates, is that there was a bargained paid incentive for the ASME group to complete a comprehensive health review at the City of Rockford Wellness Center. That is a preventive visit and is something that would be counted in that metric there. And I think that's one of the reasons that we saw a larger increase with that group than as opposed to other groups.
 And then there's a second couple questions now for Mr. Ryan. Do we have a, is there an incentive, a financial incentive for our nonrepresented employees? Or perhaps Mr. Denham or Mr. Ryan. I did want to mention, too, that we just recently negotiated in our police contract an incentive program, and I'll let Mr. Denham elaborate on that.
 Sure. This past year we did have that initial incentive with AFSCME. We haven't ruled it out to other groups, including nonrepresented. I would note that the police union, under its new contract, has just started physical fitness testing as well. We do have a nod in that language to the Wellness Center, however there's not really a hook.
 between the physical fitness testing and the wellness center. However, we are definitely amenable to continuing to negotiate with all of our unions with respect to some sort of incentive to get the comprehensive wellness evaluations at the wellness clinic. And then for Mr. Ryan, is there a reason you think that we're so low on nonrepresented, 41 percent participating in the program?
 You know, I really don't have a good answer for that. One of the things that struck me when I was looking at the utilization is I think we're doing a tremendous job overall for the employees. But when we look at the spouse utilization as well as the child utilization, if we break out what our healthcare spend is for our employee versus our spouse versus our children, I think
 That's a real area where we need to develop some better marketing and outreach to try to raise equalization rates for those areas. But perhaps our vendor, Mr. Denham, can talk about the non-union portion.
 I don't have an answer for you on why that use of the
 such as fit mass testing, hazmat physicals, that sort of thing, and instead of hiring outside vendors to do it through the wellness center. So if you actually look at the other two bars,
 with respect to nonrepresented, in terms of acute care and in terms of coaching, they actually have a higher percentage of the population. You know, at the end of the day, we're trying everything we can to get more foot traffic through the Wellness Center to try to encourage more of our employees to utilize it.
 Unlike a lot of primary care physicians, what we've tried to accomplish with the wellness clinic is longer appointment times, more in-depth testing, that sort of thing, early prevention types of activities. And I think from based on some of the other slides, you could really see some of the payoff in those regards.
 And just kind of where I was going with the questions, one, I think that from what I'm seeing here and looking at the numbers, this has definitely been a success story. It looks like people – for people who go and start participating in this coaching, they get healthier. All right? I know that –
 Working for the city is a stressful job. I know that you're out there, you're answering the phones. A lot of times angry phone calls, they're not what I get. I know that particularly nonrepresented employees work in long hours, bargaining unit employees work in 24-7 schedules. And I like to see, you know,
 Healthier employees are just in general happier in life. You know what I'm saying? That personally back in 2010, my company implemented something like this. I got healthier. I dropped 30 pounds. My cholesterol went down, and I feel better. I think I'm a better dad. I think I'm better at what I do, and overall I'm happier. So I just – and I keep seeing riding the elevator. I see all sorts of very visible out there, hey, here's these health –
 options that are open for you. So I just really encourage everybody in the city, you know, start with the people in this room. Please view this as a benefit. I think this is a benefit that can actually, no kidding, make a difference in your life. And I know, you know, particularly just encouraging the people in this room who are the leadership of the city staff, please make as much as possible participate in this and please feel free to share your success stories because I think that that is, you know,
 good for the people who are working for us. I understand a lot of times you're busy asking questions, answering questions from people like me in a variety of subjects. Please break away, go over, get your health screening, make some time to work out. If there's some education that you need, smoking cessation, dietary, all that, this is a great way to go ahead and do that. So I just want to be very encouraging in this program
 And I really appreciate all the efforts that have gone forward from here, because I know that everybody is very engaged. I know that Carrie Eklund did a very good job sharing her success stories with this, and I think that makes it a very powerful thing. So I know in the end we end up saving more money as a city. To me, that's an ancillary benefit. The real benefit is healthier, happier people who are doing a great service to our city. So thank you.
 We had a couple of hands that were up. Alderman Hervey, I believe, was next. And Mr. Brawns, the city's health insurance consultant, had a comment, and I saw Alderman McNamara's name. Alderman Hervey, you want to go next? Yeah, just sort of a general comment. I think one of the reasons there's such lower utilization among non-bargaining units is that
 And don't throw stuff at me, my fellow aldermen, but the premiums are so low, there is no incentive. I mean, a $5 penalty on $25 a month, I'm sorry, $25 every two weeks, I believe if the premium saving was higher, you would see a higher rate of participation, but...
 you know, $10 savings a month. I do the health screening to be supportive and also because I have pathetic health and I need it, every bit of help I can get. But at the same time, I don't believe there's enough of an incentive because they're,
 Yeah, $50 a month for single coverage, I know I say this all the time, is a sin. Happy to have the coverage. I think it's fantastic. But the premium rate is so low compared to the real world out there and general corporate areas. The second thing is that with the increases in prescription costs, I'm wondering if there might be
 some incentive if we had some formulary-type maintenance drugs in particular that are more expensive. You know, not things like, you know, some of the diabetes drugs, the new ones, that are really helping people control and get a handle on their A1C and some of those things. But at $700, it's, you know, even the copay is so, not copay, but
 I don't know what it's called. That's right. That's right, copay. Is it copay? Yeah. Okay, copay. A lot of people just don't do it, and when you get into some of the brand names, as long as those things are newer, things like the EpiPens and some of the other prescription costs that have just gone up 600, 800 percent, I'm wondering if the Wellness Center might get into it.
 some pharmaceutical. That's a good segue if I can for Mr. Bronze who is part of his responsibilities for our health insurance fund.
 has been consulting with us as we've done collective bargaining as well as put in a number of our pharmaceutical benefit plan recommendations. I know you wanted to comment on another item, but if you could maybe comment on the formal areas and the pharmaceutical issues. I know it's been a huge cost driver. It is, sure. Thank you very much. And I was originally rose to answer Alderman Goetsch's question.
 Although you've raised many good points, which one I was going to concur with, which is part of the incentive. There is a financial incentive when we have a discount on premium, and people do respond to a financial incentive, and that may be something that we could look at.
 when we address non-bargain units and things of that nature. And just the general admonition that I give to you guys many times when I'm fortunate enough to speak to you, which is you wear the hat of plan sponsor and the hat of insurance company. We're looking out for the employees certainly, but you have to think like an insurance company too because we're running a self-funded health plan. I could go on and on about that, but you're doing a pretty good job at that. I have to compliment you on that. I wanted to say one thing to Alderman Goetsches' point, which is prevalence
 So, the AFSCME group has screened a little bit more heavily and we've – I don't know if you have it in this slide or not, but in this deck, but we had a slide earlier today on screening and risk identification by bargaining unit.
 So people are more likely to be coached if they have a condition, and we're identifying a significant number of conditions in that group that lend themselves more to coaching. I would also say that when the clinic first opened, we did some early outreach. That was really the first group that took the outreach that we did the outreach with were the AFSCME groups.
 So I think you see the product of that communication, that effort that started pretty much on day one with that group, along with prevalence of more conditions. As another advantage to our clinicians here, and before this presentation is over, I want to be respectful of your time, but I'd like you to hear from at least one of our clinicians today to tell you a little bit about their perspective from inside the clinic.
 On the pharmacy issue, a couple of things. Number one, yeah, it's a huge problem. We have since 2005 instituted some controls on pharmacy, negotiations with different vendors. We at one point were in a joint purchasing program with Winnebago County until they pulled out. But we were doing everything we could to try to reduce costs, and that has been successful until really this year.
 And we've seen a big spike in pharmacy costs. And that's going to continue, and we've talked a lot about it with your administration. And a lot of that is the miracle of modern medicine, right? We're curing disease, we've mapped the genome, we have what's called very specific and personal drugs now that are coming out. And they're fantastic from the medical side, but they're very expensive. And we've seen now this cycle some of those very expensive drugs come in.
 We've talked with Marathon and we've talked to our clinicians about perhaps being able to infuse drugs in the clinic. That's when we do infusion in a hospital setting. It's very expensive. Not all drugs lend themselves to that, but this is fact-specific, so we're calling it very specific drugs. We do offer some generic drugs that are free in the clinic. So when someone comes to see our clinician, there's some generic drugs there that are given to them at no cost. We're starting to do that also now with certain vitamins.
 We're very careful about that because we don't want to start a run on the bank, right? But things like vitamin D, we're seeing a lot of vitamin D deficiency, I guess, as a nation, but particularly here in our employee population. So the idea is, look, you can get this at no cost, but here's the catch. You have to get into coaching and engagement. You can't just come and pick it up at the desk and leave. It's going to cost you a 30-minute visit with one of our clinicians, and that's an incentive to get people to come in and kind of help us also on the drug side.
 I'd also like to say, I guess while I have the mic, I don't know if I'm going to get back after this. It has been successful, and I want to compliment you for that. It wouldn't be successful without your HR folks. I know it sounds a little self-serving, but it's true. I can give you plenty of anecdotes in our own public practice all over the country where we work with other HR groups that aren't quite as sophisticated. Marathon is a sophisticated operator. This type of data, and there's a lot more data, believe me, we could dig into every one of those slides as an hour-long talk.
 There aren't other operators like that. And you have to be a sophisticated HR group, sophisticated counsel like yourself, in order to really extract everything you can from an operator like this. We couldn't do it without specifically Kim Ryan and Paul Denham, of course. Thank you. So they've done an excellent job there.
 Thank you. You're welcome. I just want you to hear from the clinician at some point. We will pick up on that. I want to go to Alderman McAmaran. Thank you, Mayor. I think this is one of the areas in particular that you have done an incredibly good job of making sure that our employees are healthier. We're saving money, which is a plus, but we're also keeping people at home.
 In their offices, doing work, living a healthier life, and the return on investment, I think, is clear. I get asked a lot by constituents at neighborhood meetings, oh, I drive by it, it's always no one's there. And to me, that's a good thing because I know people are there because of the utilization rates and the numbers that we see, but we –
 the scheduling and how the staff over there treats people, of making sure that there aren't eight people waiting in the room for an hour. I think people are so not used to seeing that being done that they think nothing is happening there. So I think it's a real blessing that the staff does a tremendous job that's there making sure the scheduling's smooth, making sure that they spend an appropriate amount of time with each individual and really getting to know them.
 One question I do have is when we began the conversation, there was some discussion over selling the service and incorporating other entities into this center. And I was wondering if there's an update on how that process is going. I'll give a brief remark and ask Mr. Braun or Mr. Reynolds if they want to comment further. But my brief remark is we have done a limited amount of
 Partnership, I guess I'd say with other users, the one that comes to mind is Cherry Valley Fire Department. We did some, it was testing, fitness testing with them. We've reached out to a number of different partners, including District 205, Winnebago County, Rock Valley College, inviting, this goes back actually before we entered into our first agreement with Marathon, but inviting potential partnership.
 I've continued those conversations, you know, frankly, they'll have to continue beyond my time in office. I think there's still tremendous opportunity to explore those types of partnerships. I would just say, as Mr. Braun's kind of alluded to, different
 Organizations are at different levels of engagement and sort of advance. Some of them are doing wellness, I would say, in my humble opinion, sort of wellness 101. We're on a different level because we've actually brought in the clinical team.
 And that's the coaching isn't just coaching. Other organizations are doing coaching. The step to do a clinic is a bigger deal. We spent a lot, we spent two years looking at it as an organization before we finally entered into our contract with Marathon. I don't know if there, Mr. Browns, you've got any other comment on those discussions? Thank you. And by the way, maybe you could comment too.
 We've had pharmaceutical partnerships in the past. That's another one that I specifically want to take another look at because I think with volume, we could potentially drive additional savings on the pharmaceutical benefits in particular.
 That's true. To your question, Alderman McNamara, that is a goal. It was a goal. It still is a goal. And we built the capacity to do it. It's one of the reasons we have a physician and two nurse practitioners and medical assistants as well. So we have capacity for that. I think our employees might be a little spoiled in the respect that, you know, we're not
 You can pretty much get in just about almost any time you want. Nevertheless, we still have some appointments that go unfilled, and so we have capacity for that. We struck an arrangement with Cherry Valley Fire Protection District to do their NFPA exam.
 And that provided revenue to the city. So we did charge for that, and it was revenue to the fund, and it was less expensive than what Cherry Valley Fire was able to do on their own through another provider. And they were looking for some continuity. They wanted results. They wanted that high-touch experience rather than kind of what they were used to. The reason we started fairly slowly was because, again,
 We really needed to prove out the logistics of all that. So even though that was a smaller population, I think about 50 folks, we had to create the workflow.
 Right? So how would we invoice them? Would they pay us? How exactly would the appointments get scheduled? Was that up to the HR department how to be scheduled? Was it on to the staff at Marathon? So we really had to work out that workflow and that helped us a lot in understanding exactly how we can take on additional partners. And I think we've talked about 2017 as being a year that I think we're ready to – we have had a lot of interest from small employers in the area to some of the larger employers that would like to say, hey, we've heard about your facility and we'd do everything we could to join.
 I would add also that one of the things that is facing you that is not on your agenda tonight, but I anticipate we may be bringing it back at some point. I mentioned that you're running an insurance company. Insurance companies have actuaries and underwriters and analysts. We do a lot of that in an analyzation ourselves, but we're to the point, especially with HIPAA, we need more sophisticated data analytic tools.
 All right, and whether you have the clinic facility or not, as long as we stay self-funded, especially in this environment of the Affordable Care Act and potential reforms there, the ability to segment these cohorts to do very deep dives is going to require an additional investment. And I would encourage you to think like this. So far, the money we've invested has returned.
 many times over and that's really how we built up the reserve in the health fund. We're to the point now where we can't really go too much deeper without the analytics side and we'll talk more about that as we bring some of this stuff forward to you. Thank you. A number of hands again. Alderman Hurdy, if you had a follow-up, then Alderman Beach.
 Just, yeah, a very quick one. Chief Bergston had started a program where they were working with some of the high flyers, the high users of ambulance services. And one of the questions I asked Ms. Valdez when she was here is whether our clinic might be able to
 it was a little new then but in the future, support some of those folks because I have a feeling if we could do that, if we had capacity, it's going to be cheaper than adding another ambulance or something. So I hope we can look at some kind of support for some of those folks. That's an extremely rich conversation and we'd have another hour-long lecture just on, a discussion just on that, but if I can, I'll just ask Chief Berkson maybe to comment on this as well.
 In terms of providing a service and generating revenue for the city, I think there's huge opportunity. The chief has been helping to lead conversations. I've joined him with the state's Medicaid managed care providers. These are the Blue Cross Blue Shields, the Aetnas, some big, big players in the insurance world who help to manage the state's approximately $20 billion. Of the states, I want to say they're north of what, $45 billion a year annual budget,
 But the Department of Health Care and Family Services, I think, is the largest budgetary department in the state at about $20 billion just for that department, with the biggest part of that being Medicaid. So the Medicaid portfolio is huge. There's a ton of players. They're not used to fire chiefs and mayors knocking on their door trying to set up a meeting.
 That being said, as we've been able to get those meetings, and I give the chief a lot of credit for knocking on those doors and opening some of those, we've now had a chance to present the material that we gleaned from meeting with the managed care organizations to Felicia Norwood, who heads up the State Department of Health Care and Family Services. They're very interested in our mobile integrated health care program. With a little bit of help from them, you know, I think the –
 I can't say for certain exactly what the solution might look like. However, I would tell you the fact that we were the first department licensed to do mobile health care and we have a clinic and we're applying these population health principles effectively
 always heavily in our favor. We've been waiting on a proposal from one of the insurance companies we met with for quite a while. They're planning on getting back to us probably after the first of the year. Hopefully we'll have something to bring before the council to evaluate specifically. And I can't tell you for certain whether or not the clinic –
 We'll specifically be involved in it, but it certainly could if there's a service that makes sense. For a lot of the work that we're doing, however, the pilot work that we're doing, we're actually taking advantage of our capacity. We're doing house calls.
 And the ROI data, and I expect we'll have a chance to present this to the council after the first of the year, assuming we have a proposal to bring back, the ROI for the health care providers is huge, just some enormous benefits. So what we're actually looking at, and the chief will tell you, he learned through some of his conversations I'd agree with, we don't want to undervalue our services. We don't want to be greedy either, but to the extent we're able to deflect benefits
 utilization of the highest cost folks within the healthcare system, these are the people going to the ER 60 plus times a year.
 and we're transporting them. If we can get them to reduce utilization, we could be, and we've demonstrated in the pilot work, we've saved significant dollars for those partners. So we look at it not as a budget, you know, panacea or anything, but as a way to improve service, generate revenue, ultimately improve the quality of life for the very people we're charged with trying to serve and preventing a lot of unnecessary ambulance runs by being able to be there in advance.
 Sorry for the long-winded answer, but it's a really fruitful area, and I'm glad you asked the question. Chief, did I miss anything that you wanted to comment on? Well, thank you very much. So we'll be back most likely after the first of the year with a, hopefully by that time we'll have something specific to discuss with the one carrier we're talking to. Thank you. Alderman Beach was next. Thank you, Your Honor. Back to this area of the pharmacies. I know earlier on there were some discussions,
 Have there been in the last couple of years any serious talks about adding pharmaceutical services other than maybe some free Metformin or whatever that cover, let's say, the highest used amount of prescriptions that we're paying for, hooked in either through Marathon or some other vendor alongside of us to drive further savings for us? Mr. Reynolds, Mr. Barons, do you want to comment on that?
 There have been, Alderman Beach and I'll let Tim talk in a second, but we think about that all the time. So we're kind of on this spectrum of, well, are we going to actually put a Walgreens or a pharmacist in the facility itself or are we going to continue to try to create buying opportunities, discount opportunities with the manufacturers and through our pharmacy benefit manager? And...
 There's also been a lot, there's been buyouts and shifting relationships inside the world of CVS and Walgreens with specific drug manufacturers. I can tell you that these drug contracts are extremely complicated. And we have advised labor in the past actually that we can't guarantee that we'll always recommend staying with the same pharmacy provider every year. Things are changing so dramatically in that world.
 So we've talked a lot about drugs that we can deliver through the clinic as an incentive to bring people into the clinic. At this time, our pricing is stronger through our own PBM pricing
 than it is with, Marathon's not a drug purchaser per se. Actually, we're purchasing drugs a little bit less expensively, I think, than we can get some of them through Marathon, because Marathon's going to another outside company. Where Marathon can procure the drug less expensive than we can, they do. And that's what's in the, primarily that's what the generics that are stocked inside the clinic right now, like Metformin.
 So I can tell you it's at the top of the list. It's something we talk about all the time. As far as having the foot traffic to put a Walgreens necessarily or a pharmacist in the clinic, I know our clinicians, I think, have voiced that they would very much like to have as a clinical partner a pharmacist right on the premises.
 We do use a clinical pharmacist through our organization, through Rye for Consulting, our company, to analyze specific drugs and specific trends. And we've actually got a point where we have called specific physicians in town regarding their use of specific drugs that may or may not be off-label and how it's impacting our plan. So we're constantly looking at the pharmacy picture.
 Whether or not we'll actually open a pharmacy or bring a pharmacist on site, we haven't gotten to that point yet. Paul, you had your hand up. Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. And something along these lines as well as along the lines of Alderman McNamara's question concerning community partners, in addition to having the goal of expanding the facility to other community partners, one of the goals of this facility has always been building out
 the remaining part of the Fran crawl complex. For those of you who have been over there, essentially the service department of the old Fran crawl is currently what Marathon utilizes for its current operations. However, there's still the service department which has a lot of untapped potential which could be utilized with respect to either putting a pharmacy in there.
 or for instance, if you look at some of the other marathon complexes across the nation, they might have physical therapists on site or a physical fitness facility or I'm sure Mr. Reynolds can find some other examples. Yeah, and I can speak just really briefly. I mean, one of the challenges of…
 One of my goals within the next few weeks or months is to have that conversation about building out the remaining part of the facility in addition to potentially attracting community partners and enlarging this operation.
 Yeah, and I can just echo that in terms of other customers that we serve or other municipalities for that matter, the most successful health centers are those that have other services co-located in that same space. It drives foot traffic. It gives dependents in particular reasons to visit that facility and also access care because it's more convenient. There's a reason to go there.
 Pharmacy in particular, the customers that we work with that have brought pharmacy in-house, they're just, they're at a much greater, larger scale than the city of Rockford is. They just have more covered lives. It gives them some more opportunities to do specific things. I mean, we've explored some opportunities with our own formulary, what we're dispensing. We have some options for mail order medications that we can deliver at a lower cost. And I think we continue to have conversations around that. But in terms of
 pushing success of this even further, our perception is that if we can increase use of that facility, whether it's for a partner pharmacy or, you know, a gym, other health care services, other services in general, that that's going to help drive engagement across the board. And we think that's what's right now yielding to some of the positive outcomes and the successes that we're seeing already. May I just follow up? Sure. Sure.
 any other clinic that you are now serving that has pharmaceutical services in the clinic, are any of them
 owned by the municipality, or are they all other private, like Walranges, EVS? It's a private vendor. They don't operate retail pharmacies, but they do contract with self-insured employers, like the city of Rockford, to offer on-site pharmacy services. So in some ways, they cut out that PBM to deliver those drugs at a lower cost. And the pharmacist is an employee of that municipality? Of the vendor. Of the vendor. So similar to Marathon Health clinicians working for Marathon Health and not the city of Rockford? Correct.
 Well, it would be good, it would be interesting sometime to see what we'd actually need in terms of number of people to make the efficiency work. Because I just, I thought about that from the beginning. And I was kind of told that we had to go this route first. And it looks like we're really being successful. I've used the clinic over there several times. And I just, it's a wonderful thing.
 Except I went to get a shot the other day and didn't have one. I felt bad about that. But I just highly recommend it. I'm excited we've got it, but I'm still driving for that in-house pharmacy, as you well know. Thank you. MR. Mr. Denim alluded to it, a number of the speakers tonight, but what I'd expect and hope shortly after first year we could come back to counsel with what will likely be an RFI or an RFP.
 to invite potential partners specifically, whether it's the, one of the ones we believe we have a specific opportunity around would be, and we've had a lot of requests for, is the physical therapy piece.
 part of what we've been doing is analyzing how much do we actually spend on physical therapy that we might be able to move into the clinic to provide better services. I had a chance to hear at the Marathon Forum this year some outstanding work happening at one of their other clinics by bringing in that in-house. We have a lot of folks who
 suffer injuries, they go through physical therapy, we spend money on that. The question is can we divert that money, bring it inside, and what might that partnership look like? And then what might we, that other community was doing a lot of prevention-based physical therapy work, which is very interesting as well, to try to get to people before they have a repetitive stress injury, work comp-related injury, et cetera, and we have a lot of people who
 police, fire, public works, very manually driven jobs, as well as a lot of people at desk jobs, that hopefully we can divert some of those expenses before they occur. Alderman Frost was next. I just wanted to echo both what Alderman Goetsch said and what you said, Mayor. Being involved in this program since it got off the ground and Alderman Beach and I did in fact travel to Chattanooga and see a Marathon Clinic that did have a pharmacy in it, and I know there's pros and cons. I don't know the time to debate that tonight.
 I did want to mention that on the match risk prevalence, it's good to see the benchmarks continue to improve. I know there's always a cost for that. As I think Mr. Brown mentioned, we are as a self-insured city, it's very important that it's a win-win just like ComEd and Alderman Getsch said. There's a vested interest in ComEd and having healthier employees, no different than the city of Rockford.
 all for that because on the back end of this, not only are we improving the health benefits, but it also has the potential of a significant cost benefit to the city. I know later on tonight, I think we're going to talk about our renewal on medical stop losses. It would be nice maybe, I know we've talked about reaching out in the capacity of the clinic, but would be...
 this may already have been addressed, but if we could include retirees that are still in our legacy health insurance plans as the next stepping stone to get folks that we as a city are still responsible for incurring their medical care expenses, if we could get them as a group to welcome them to the wellness center and see how some of these parameters can work and coaching can work to help
 them out as they are retired. So it's just something, food for thought to think about. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have one question. The benchmarks that you provide are impressive, but they're only benchmarks against yourself. Do you guys submit your data, or could you in the future bring us your benchmarks like with HIDIS or –
 or things like that, so we, I'm assuming it's in there someplace. It is. Yeah, actually that came up and I'd be happy to share some more of that presentation with you if that helps address that question. So I think in the future going forward, especially if you're thinking about expanding the clinic or getting into population health more and more, that data would be actually helpful
 But I, you know, I'm sure you have to do it because you, because your organization, but it would be good to see it. MR. I just note, too, that this past afternoon we had a two-hour presentation with a much larger slide deck, which I'll distribute to all the aldermen. And in addition, if you have any additional questions which are more data intensive, I'd be happy to follow up with Mr. Reynolds and have a response for you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Alderman Newberg.
 Other aldermen have mentioned this. I have been approached many times, if we're going to open up to the public, I'd rather see us open up to our retired employees and their families before we go to the public. I think they've worked for the city of Rockford, and I feel they should still have some of the benefits of having worked for Rockford. So I would be able to support that before I could say go out to the public. Thank you. Thank you. Any further comments from the council?
 Mr. Bronson, you said one of our clinicians wanted to... I wanted to add, well, first of all, thank you all for the time. I know how full your agenda is and how much you have to do. And Mr. Reynolds mentioned this. Behind those numbers are real people. We never lose sight of that. And we do have lots of anecdotes. I mean, this clinic has saved lives. People have walked into this clinic.
 you know, with very severe conditions going on that they had no idea was happening as they came in for a cold or flu. And we could go through an entire meeting of just those examples. And I don't know if Steve and or if you want to come on up or any of your team. Dr. Nitz. Introducing Dr. Nitz. I want to say that one of the things that makes this operation a little bit differently is that
 I'm not a doctor, don't pretend to be, but we do have a bit of a clinical perspective. We have a medical perspective. We're trying to use our health fund not to just finance disease and injury through our providers in town. We want to try to cure disease or reverse disease or improve the outcomes of chronic conditions that our employees have. And that means we're taking a hard look at the kind of medicine that we're doing and what's on a leading edge. And some of that I think Dr. Nitz can speak to. Anything else you'd like to say?
 I'll be brief. First of all, I want to say that I think a lot of the success of this clinic has to do with some amazing people who are already there, Christina and Carly and Lori and Rose. We've got a really amazing group of people that are there doing good work.
 I think the city reached out to me. Ryan and I had met. I happen to have a functional medicine clinic in the same building where they are. I think he had a vision for how what I'm trying to do with my patients with functional medicine would maybe help the city with this very goal of lowering costs and...
 trying to find the real issues that are at a deeper level than just a simple diagnosis of whatever it may be. So in my functional medicine clinic, we're looking for those deeper issues, and we're trying to bring that here to the city as well to the level that we can.
 In that process, we're finding and uncovering some things we didn't really expect to find. If I could speak to probably two areas, it would be, one, this is partly driven by Mr. Bronze as well, but there's...
 I think a big driver of the financial issues has been autoimmune disease. So somebody gets an autoimmune diagnosis and they're often on a drug that costs a lot of money, Humira, Enbrel, $80,000 a year type of medication. So one thing we're looking at is from a functional perspective, how do we unconfuse the immune system? How do we help reverse autoimmune disease?
 something we're doing in my clinic and trying to bring to the city as well. There are real strategies to do that. Secondly, kind of an unexpected finding. A lot of people are coming with a symptom of fatigue, and we're finding, I'd say particularly among the police and the fire department, and there are reasons for this, a number of men who have low testosterone. And I think that's probably because of the adrenal activity
 assault that the life of being a police or a fireman is. You're not sleeping well at night, you're constantly having tense situations and that affects testosterone levels. So what's the result of that? Well, you're tired, you're irritable, you're depressed,
 your brain is not working as well as it could. And so we're looking seriously at how do we help reverse that through lifestyle and perhaps testosterone replacement. They're just two very interesting trends and things we're working on. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll conclude lastly. I said before we wouldn't have the success that we have without the HR team that you have, and that's a fact.
 And the clinician is people, too. Without the people we have in the clinic building these trusted relationships that take time, we wouldn't be having the success that we have either. We are fighting a lot of increasing costs. Okay, that's coming.
 Costs are going up in drugs and they're going up in medicine. So while we've had an era of maybe really decreasing year-over-year costs, we're starting to look more towards, well, now how much can we reduce the increase? How can we fight inflation? And that's why we'll probably come into you with some more solutions and different ideas regarding that. But it seems to be a little bit of the direction we're trending right now. We are going to see the stop loss on your agenda tonight. We were able to get that back to a 0%.
 That is unfortunately an auction item and it almost, you know, you've got to keep going back forth, back forth with them all the way down to this time of year. But I can assure you even though we've waited until this meeting, it has saved us a lot of money to do that, just to add that at this point. But thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thank you for all of the partners that have supported the improvement within the city's health fund and the clinical improvement for all of our citizens.
 I'll finally just add, I'm not just a mayor, I'm also a husband, a dad, a patient from time to time who's...
 I know our premiums are low, but we still have co-pays and deductibles. And for families with kids that know you can go to the clinic, and especially with some of the basic antibiotics and other medications, get included as part of your employee benefit. It's a heck of a value. And I think that value can only be expected to grow in the future. So thank you again to everybody as part of the presentation. And thank you for the council members allowing for such an extended conversation.
 We will move on our agenda to new committee reports. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three committee reports on the Roman numeral 6A. The first one is the committee recommends approval of the Rockford Area Convention Visitors Bureau 2017-2022 contract for service agreement. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Second, the committee recommends approval of the lease agreement with Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau for property located at 102 North Main Street for years 2017 to 2022. The legal interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And finally, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement.
 With Rockford Board of Education, School District Number 205, related to a request for a proposal for the adaptive reuse of Walker Elementary School located at 1520 Post Avenue. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I first would like to suspend rules on these three items. I suspend the motion. I second. I suspend the rules on Ruming Rule 6A, Items 1, 2, and 3. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would like to place these three items up for passage. That is up for passage is their discussion. Alderman Harvey. Thank you, Your Honor. In the agreement, I raised this last week. I can't find the beginning section, but it's on page 5, number 14, the confidentiality clause. Which item? I'm sorry, this is the item number 1, the Convention and Visitors Bureau of the Service Agreement.
 I mentioned this the other week. I understand they're a private organization that's getting a huge amount of money from the city in the form of a tax that we're giving away for that service.
 But it says here that their work with clients and or the city is confidential. And I can understand why with clients, it's almost like with the bid. You don't want someone being able to come in and get proprietary information. But I fail to understand how any of their work with the city, unless it was a legal matter, can be confidential from the public,
 at all. That is still extremely problematic to me. And whatever they're doing with the city, whether it's this agreement, the expenditure of funds, work that we're doing, agreements that we have, that has to be open to public scrutiny. From a transparency standpoint, I can't understand why that's in there. And it wasn't in there before. Mr. Cagnotti, do you want to comment on that?
 Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Harvey is correct. We had a conversation at committee related to this particular item. And just for clarification, this was an item that was brought forward from the city's end, understanding that we have a number of conversations with potential leads that are confidential in nature and wanting to be able to use the CVB as a resource and disclose certain activities and have them do follow-up with us.
 So it was not any intent of the CDB not to disclose information to the community or to this council as a whole. They've always been willing to provide whatever information has been requested by the council or planning and development committee at their quarterly reports.
 With that said, if it is the desire of council and they feel that that needs to be removed from the proposed agreement from a staff level, we would not object to that.
 We just felt that it allowed us to quickly expedite matters without having to create those agreements separately. So I'll leave it at the discretion, but I do know we would like to, if at all possible, move forward this evening with the agreement.
 Alderman Hervey? I didn't want to eliminate it from the standpoint of client confidentiality, or as Mr. Cagnoni was just saying, I just think there's a better way to word it. I wonder if you just want to amend the language to extract or take out the reference to the city but leave in the client piece. I mean, if you're looking for a technical change. Yeah, and then I would not have a problem if we amended it at some point to add where the city is working with leads or developers or...
 you know, if we were outsourcing a new event or something of that sort. It's just too broad, and it's a legal document. So if we want to skip over it for now, and maybe Mr. Cagnone could try to sketch a proposed amendment that you could read in. If that's an option, we could certainly look at doing that, because I don't think it will take that much wordsmithing. Mr. Ryan just asked for the agreement for a second, so we'll give him the opportunity to wordsmith it. So if there's no objection, we'll...
 take a vote on the other items and come back to 6 a 1 on the Mac to me thank you mayor I just want to comment on two items 6 a 3 which is happens to be in my ward this is a request for a proposal for the adaptive reuse of Walker elementary school I just wanted to make it
 My fellow colleagues aware I'm strongly in support of this there was a tremendous amount of public discussion and public meetings that took place And I understand at the committee level there was also some concerns over what happened with other Buildings at the school district owns and I think those concerns are valid But I strongly support this and hope that you do too. I think this is
 document and all the time that was put in was, and I applaud the school district for it, was put in so that those failures of the past aren't created again. It's actually because of that why they created special committees and had so many public meetings and it's
 if you reference the memorandum that uh... mister cagnole put together they play so many restrictions on what a potential development could be uh... so i strongly urge you to support that and lastly i know they're working on language but uh... may also strongly support uh... agreement with our cvb uh... i think
 Since I've been on council, they've done a tremendous job, the staff with John Groh and the entire board, from moving just to not being just solely heads in beds and just pushing sports. Tourism, which I think both are incredibly critical and integral to their mission, but they've done things of...
 increasing efforts for beautification throughout the city and they've also, to me, one of the most important things, they've created these events that are open for everyone in our community to attend and also these events instill pride where people live. And I think they're incredibly important and just congratulate them on the work that they've been doing and I think it is important that we push forward with that agreement now before the new year to show them that we appreciate the work that they have been doing.
 Other comments? Alderman Newberg. Yes. What are we doing with the RIVCB? Are we not open to questions at this point? What I would recommend that we do is if we're ready to vote now while they're trying to look at some language, we'll take debate and discussion on 6A2 and 3, try to dispose of those, and then come back to 2A1.
 Alderman Herby? I just wanted to comment on the Walker School proposal and indicate my support also. I have King School that's closing, and one of the things that the district has done that they didn't do in the past, I believe for each building they allocated a half million dollars so that if there is not a strong, funded, reliable, sustainable use of,
 for the building, they're going to tear them down. And that's why they allocated that half million dollars and that's not been done before. And recognizing some of the mistakes, Church School, Rock River School, they are being very, very bullish on
 what those uses can be. And I actually appreciated the fact that they asked the city to go out for the RFP because this is the kind of thing that we do all the time. And I think people recognize that. So if there's not an adaptive reuse,
 for the building and the developer can indicate financial wherewithal and long-term sustainability. We've got some beautiful schools that have been readapted. Garrison, number one. There's one over near Nelson, I can't think of the name of it, but it's been turned into like office space. The old Highland Park, that's where I had my office.
 So there's some good things that can be done, and I think that's why I'm kind of supporting the fact that they're partnering with the city to look at the RFPs for these buildings with the caveat that they're coming down if they can't be reused.
 Thank you. Alderman Durkee, did you have your hand up? Only if I could, it's a comment on the RACB budget and agreement, on that budget of the agreement. So if you want to go to the vote and then I'll make a comment after the vote. I'd like to take the other two items first, if we can, Alderman Frost. I was just going to make a comment on, I've spoken to both Mr. Cagnoni and Mr. Gero, and I think with respect to the confidentiality.
 paragraph 14 that it's been discussed and agreed that they that everyone can live without it being in there whatsoever so we could amend that document to just remove paragraph 14 there'd be no need for any confidentiality do you want to make a uh so do you want to make a motion to amend i'd make that motion now so could you again just so we got it down specifically the motion would be to
 amend Roman numeral 6a1 the RACVB 2017-22 contract to eliminate which paragraph? Paragraph number 14 which is reflected on page 5. Is that right? Paragraph 14? 6B, I'm sorry, C14 I think it is. It's paragraph 14, page 5 of the agreement. I'll ask staff to make sure that they
 They know which one we're talking about, which has the references to the confidentiality that would be eliminated. Mr. Cagnone, is that right? Correct reference, Your Honor. Thank you. So there's a motion and second on that item. Is there any discussion on that motion to amend?
 Hearing no further discussion on that, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Item will be amended. So we can bring these all three back up then. So we have the amended A1 as well as 2-3, Alderman Durkee. Sorry. And we'll get back to Alderman Newberg after. This relates to the agreement. This would be under paragraph 9B.
 The Bureau-based fee for service, according to the agreement, the City will compensate the Bureau at a percentage rate, which is an open amount of funding. In the synopsis, in the memorandum, it stated that this is anticipated to be $1.2 to $1.4 million.
 I don't know if this is appropriate or not, and I would defer to counsel. In my opinion, there should be a cap then on the agreement of either 70% to $1.2 or $1.4 million, rather than leave it open. This would be paragraph 9B. Mr. Cagnoni and Mr. Ryan had a reaction they wanted to mention.
 Mr. Cagnone. Thank you, Your Honor. You know, it should be noted that we've made some changes from the previous contract by the removal of the challenge grant, and the thought behind that was to create a consistent contract
 funding source for the CVB, but at the same time gave them the incentive to go out and grow the pie. So as they're out there doing their work and bringing and filling the additional assets that are located within the community, not only are they creating a return on investment for the community as a whole.
 But there's a return on the additional expenses that they may have as they go out and capture these events and activities to drive additional spending throughout our community. We would suggest that we leave it as proposed and as negotiated from the city side as we bring it forward to the committee and council.
 Mr. Ryan, anything else? No, I would just add, you know, when we entered into this five-year contract the last term, there was a big philosophical discussion about how the motel tax should be spent. Part of that was a 1% redevelopment tax and then the 5% base. And one of the things that we saw is, you know, if we're not having a portion of these dollars grow product development,
 we're going to start to have diminishing returns on the marketing and sales there. And what we did under this structure, and the other thing was leveraging outside dollars. I think the CVB has done a good job of leveraging outside dollars over that period. This, they're going to be generating a smaller percentage than what they could have realized under the old contract, and that's why I don't think we should.
 put a cap on that. We want them to grow the base. We also want to have a certain percentage to be able to grow the product. So there's a balance there. But I think the more we continue to manage and develop product, we want them to be selling these products.
 amenities particularly since we've expanded them since the last contract. We have the UW Sports Factory, we have the facilities in Loves Park and whether or not they're in Loves Park, a lot of hotels are, you know, most of the hotels are in Rockford so we want them to be successful. But I think a cap goes backwards on that. We want to make sure that we have a they have a guarantee in terms of percentage
 on the contract and we have a guarantee on what we can generate for capital development. Thank you. Council Alderman Newberg was next. Thank you. I noticed that the current agreement that is ending December 31st provided 60% of the hotel motel tax and now the proposed 70% for the next five years. We have asked every one of our department heads to decrease
 Come in because we are we're going to have a little bit of lack of money next year Nice way of putting it but we are giving them 10% We are giving the Rockford area Convention Bureau 10% more automatically for the next five years I understand that with they will be giving up that additional Matching fund part of 20% correct. I
 So they no longer have a challenge up to the right. Theoretically they could be getting up to 80 if they had the match. But they don't have the match, right? So under Mr. Cagnone, thank you chairman or thank you mayor. Under the current contract, the base was for
 60% and they could earn an additional 20% up to 80%. And the typical performance on the contract has been approximately 70% as we're proposing here. So it's a revenue neutral, it's not an increase in dollars going to the CVB based on the past performance of the contract as well as their performance on the challenge grant. Let me get this.
 And then on this, too, and I really appreciate Alderman Neuber bringing up the topic of the budget. With this being revenue neutral, I was fortunate enough to serve on RACVB's board for my first three years in office. And it's an organization where I really do think we're getting the value for our money.
 Some of the things that they do is, in addition to putting on, hosting Stroll On State for a convention visitor's bureau to do that, it's actually fairly unique. Their main function is marketing. They do go out and with UW Sports Factory, they've called people up. They kind of cold called the people for the ultimate Frisbee national competition that took place here.
 and to get the ultimate Frisbee competition out of a warm weather climate into Rockford. Actually, one of the people called me up and be like, hey, what's there to do in your city? Because I'm really surprised this is coming to Rockford. And then any time they're generating that, that generates more sales tax for us, which helps us on our budgets. This is one where our hotel motel tax
 We're paying a little bit higher percentage to keep them revenue neutral with the idea being we're generating more in sales tax. So I think that we're, in the end, this is going to be a plus for us on our budget. Thank you.
 Don't want this to be a push-shelf type thing, but I can look around at every department head here. I think they all have put in as much, if not more, than the Rockford Area Convention Bureau. I'm very proud of Rockford Area Convention Bureau, but to try and pick out one of our groups that should stay the same or get an increase while everyone else is being asked to cut back is not fair.
 Thank you. This is a point of information I wanted to share. The legal limitation that we have as a non-home rule community with our proceeds from the hotel and motel tax, they cannot replace or be used, for example, for police or fire operations.
 somewhat dilemma that we have, as Mr. Ryan alluded to, to the extent the city holds dollars back, we certainly could invest them in tourism-related generating activities, whether it's marketing promotion or it's in product development. That's been part of the balance that we've been working on over the course of the negotiations on the agreement. Holden, Herbie, do you have your hand up again? Somebody else had their hand up, but I couldn't. Yeah, I do. Okay. Yeah, go ahead. Yes.
 When we talk about some of the many things that we have going on throughout the city, I'm very happy with some of the things that they've done, and I think they have expanded their role greatly from my first term when I was going to vote no when the thing came up. Because the previous agreement, I think, was what, 10 years? Yes.
 or seven or eight or something like that. It was quite long and I had it in my head that I just wasn't going to support it. I'm very happy with Stroll on State, some of the ways that they've expanded.
 However, I also believe that we have a huge number of opportunities out there in the city. South Main redevelopment, West State Street redevelopment, North Main, and I'm not talking about the core of the city. I'm talking about the spider's legs, not the center. And it's gonna take a lot. I know we have to try to focus on particular areas. I'm not always sure
 that Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau is the best place to do that. So one of the things I am concerned about is that we not give away all of that money. And I guess my question is, can they still go up to 80% or are they capped at 70? It's capped at 70. I just got a little bit of confusion there.
 Because we do need some other things to be done. I try to be supportive. I'm going to take a deep breath and do it with this, but I want to say publicly that there's two things that I want them to work on. One is recognizing the diversity of this city. And when I say diversity, I'm not talking about race, I'm not talking about ethnicity. I'm talking about the fact that we have neighborhoods that have different personalities.
 They have different flavors, if you will. And that has to be recognized. You know, we had a little dust-up. I don't have banners on South Main. I'm not going into the particulars of it because I want it to stay positive. But they've got to come to that realization that this is a different city, and you can't work with the same in sort of a monotone because that's not what it is. And sometimes I would prefer that the city contract
 outside of Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau to do some of those things. Urban planning is not all about urban core. Sometimes it's about the urban fringes, which are totally different animals. And I want to see us make sure that we do take some of that money you just mentioned. Maybe the city does some place-based development. We've got, what, five economic development zones that all have different,
 perspectives, if you will. And I'm not so sure that it's wise always to put all of that into the lap of one person. So I would like to see us keep the money earmarked, but I want to make sure that we keep the Convention and Visitors Bureau focused on the fact
 that they've got a much broader area than downtown, midtown, some of the core, I would call it. If I could, and then Mr. Cagnone could give more detail, just as a point of information to your point, Alderman Hervey, at the newly formed 2016 quarterly economic development collective impact meetings,
 The CVB has been one of the leads within those meetings, and that's exactly where the conversation has gone about ensuring that their operations impact all of those five economic development zones. It's a challenge for a lot of the reasons that I think you stated, but it's one that they seem very open to taking on and has been where the conversation has been headed. Mr. Cagnoni, if I misstated any of that, please feel free to correct me on it, but I think that's generally accurate.
 Yes, Your Honor, that would be an accurate statement. And I would just add to it, I believe the CVB and others, it's going to take a comprehensive approach by a number of our organizations that we work with to drive the investment that we'd like to see
 I know that the CVB and the Community Economic Development Department, we have had some discussions related to the point that you made, Alderman Hervey, and I can share with you some analysis that we've done that might be a fruitful opportunity that we can look at for Southwest Rockford as well as some other areas related to marketing and identifying that. Other hands? Alderman, I want to make sure anybody who's not had a chance to speak does so. Alderman Durkee? Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Hearing the comments from staff, I'm still a little bit troubled about an open-ended percentage budget to the RICB. I still believe it should be capped. And the higher figure that is offered is $1.4 million. If $1.8 million comes in, for instance, I don't know if that's possible with the number of hotel rooms that we have.
 you know what happens to that money um and when agencies get carte blanche i'm not quite so sure they always spend it correctly so i would offer and i'm i'll step on a limb i'm sure nobody will second it but i would offer the following amendment the city will pay the bureau a fee equal to 70 percent of the hmt collected and received by the city pursuant to the act
 and ordinance, lest the pro rata costs of the administration and auditing costs attributed to the HMT capped at $1.4 million in accordance with the terms set forth in agreement. And then adding a sentence, the RACVP, should these...
 dollar amounts, their expenses exceed $1.4 million. RACVB during their quarterly meeting would request additional funds and budget modification from the city of Rockford. I would offer that as an ordinance, I mean an amendment to paragraph 9B. Is there a second? Crashed and burned. There's no second? All right. Motion fails. Alderman Hervey. He was doing okay on the first part. You lost me on that second part, if their budget should exceed. We don't have that option.
 No, if... You're talking about if the revenue exceeds. If the revenue exceeds. Well, you said their expenses. Oh, I'm sorry. That's what threw me off. You said if their expenses would exceed. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Council. So if you fix that, you might get a second, but... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So that's what I meant. I'm sorry. Alderman Newberg. Okay. We have three... Go ahead. 70 percent of the HMT, I mean, if we could get...
 If they could get $1.8 million, and it's 70% of what the city takes in, more power to you because that means we've got that other 30%, correct? So I don't see putting anything on a limit on the dollar amount as long as they stay within that 70% of the HMT. Any further discussion? Home Secretary? Actually, no, I don't.
 So up for passage is Roman numeral 6A, items 1, 2, and 3. Item 1, the RACVB contract, there was a motion earlier that amended it, paragraph 14 on page 5, to eliminate the confidentiality clause. The other proposed amendment failed for lack of a second. So those three items are up for passage. If there's no further discussion, I'd ask the clerk please call the roll. Jerky. Aye. Getses. Aye.
 Mackinac Frost Hervey Connell Odo Newberg Beach Elliott McNeely Chiarelli Items 1 and 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. The matter is passed. Alderman Hervey. My apology, Your Honor. Because I contract with the school district, I need to abstain on number 3. That will be so noted. Thank you. Sorry. Thank you.
 All in the trellis. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 6B1, I move to suspend the rules. Second. There's been a motion, second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 6B1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place that item up for passage. Matters up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Jerky. Aye. Getses. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell.
 Newberg each le a McNeely cheerily I 12 eyes matter passes. Thank you. Thank you all the gadgets all the new question
 I'm sorry, I apologize. Who had their hand up? Alderman Newberg, I apologize. I had a question on that before we voted. Can I ask it now, or is that out of order? I apologize if I missed it. That was on 6B? Yes. Go ahead and ask your question. Is that not the current Father Wintek way? That is. That we will be taking down Father Wintek? No. Wait a minute.
 Yes. Mr. Ryan? Yes, it is. Mr. Ryan? Yes, that is correct. And per our policy, that has a termination period for a period of, I believe it's three years. And his signs were up for five. We are doing something special with the signs. I don't want to say it on TV. Thank you. I will leave it to your discretion. Thank you.
 All of them get just thank you honor. I have a seven items up for passage of Roman Roman numeral six items Charlie one through seven Committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amounts of six million eight hundred fifty thousand two hundred sixty five dollars and twenty five cents committee recommends approval of fine reduction request for eight zero three Garfield Avenue to fifty dollars as the properties in compliance committee recommends
 Approval of revisions to the City of Rockford's regulations regarding reimbursement of travel expenses to comply with Local Government Travel Expense Control Act 50 ILCS 150.1 at sequence. Interim Legal Director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Committee recommends approval of a change order to the i-FIBR contract.
 amendment with the Illinois Fiber Resources Group for an additional $23,483 to add a connection to the State Street West parking deck. The total annual recurring i-Fiber contract will be $62,400, funding sources, municipal parking fund.
 Our committee recommends approval of the application for federal grant funds for the annual continuation of Head Start and Early Head Start services for the period of April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The committee recommends approval.
 of the recommendations regarding changes to the government process for the Head Start program. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The committee recommends approval of the 2016 supplemental appropriation ordinance. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And I move for suspension of rules of these items.
 Thank you. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on enrollment number 6C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Your Honor, I place these items up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Alderman Hervey? Yes, Your Honor. With regard to, I'm sorry, item 4, the Municipal Parking Fund,
 I guess my question is, my understanding is that the parking fund is underwater. You know, with the cost that we have for the repairs to the parking deck, what we're taking in, it doesn't have any money. Now, I'm going to support this, but my request is that as part of our budget item,
 even if it's after we pass the budget for this year, that we have either at our first Monday, I think we have the fifth Monday in January, that we take the parking fund and we look at how we are going to modify the charges that we have, the operations that we have, so that the parking fund becomes truly an enterprise fund, because it's not.
 You know, when we talk about water rates, we increase the water rates. We charge people more because it's an enterprise fund, so it has to pay for itself. Parking does not. And we really need to come to grips with this and improve.
 I know it's not a popular thing to do. I'm not talking about raising ticket prices or anything, but I'm talking about what we charge for parking in our decks and everything else. If not, let's stop calling it an enterprise fund, and it becomes a burden, a cost to the general fund. So if I can ask Mr. Ryan to work with our finance director and public works director and Alderman McNamara. I know this is your favorite topic.
 We have been working on a number of items. I don't know if they're ready for a broader discussion on the parking fund, but I think it's very appropriate that we include that discussion in an upcoming discussion. We incorporate it as part of our budget discussion or whatever staff feels is most appropriate, but very fair questions. Any other comments? And I'll just ask maybe staff could follow up with you and just figure out what's the right timing for that discussion for best timing.
 Certainly, Alderman McNeely expressed interest in that conversation as well, absolutely. Any other discussion on any of those items C1 through 7? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 That is all passed. Thank you. Did I miss any committee reports? So officer's reports, I'm just going to do my report from here in the interest of time. I just have one item I want to cover having to do with our schedule. So next week is Christmas holiday on the 26th. We do not have a meeting, I do not believe, scheduled for that week.
 Our next meeting as a council would be on January 3rd, I believe, if my memory serves me correctly. What we'd like to do is have that meeting only be a committee night. Part of the reason we just know it's going to be a very busy night. We have, among other things, I believe Mr. Vittner will be bringing our initial CIP proposal for review. So expect it to be a busy night. So we don't want to do a – I think it was originally scheduled to be both a –
 uh committee and council night if there's no objection we'll schedule it so that we'll do committee only that night and we'll take advantage of the fifth the fact that we have five mondays or five meetings scheduled in that fifth meeting we would be picking up a committee night and then we'd be back on track for the following monday and february if there were additional items that we'd want to pick up on that
 On our schedule that for example the parking item that Alderman Hervey mentioned. I believe we can pick that up in our committee discussion On the budget it would be appropriate if there's others Please let me know but that way we don't get backed into a and wind up here until midnight on January 3rd I don't think anybody wants to do that. Alderman Hervey? Again for the fifth Monday, we're coming up on this item next the text amendments. Yes, um
 Zoning is just confusing as the dickens. And there's so many implications. I think we all got smacked in the face with one this year. Even though I don't, I mean, I've read these, I've looked through them. There are some, you know, miscellaneous, non-conforming uses in some of these things. There are legal implications.
 I would ask that we be, it would be a good time to have sort of like a little schooling on some of these zoning definitions and what some of these text amendments mean and what the implications are. I mean, I read a few and I'm concerned about them. I know they're gonna come back to us, is my understanding. We pass them out, they go to ZBA, and then they come back to us for approval. So I don't wanna slow the process up, but,
 I have concerns about some of them and one of the things, you know, I talked about urban farming and beekeeping and some of those, but actually, I think I'm going to have to be a no on those, but I would like to see staff give us some deeper discussion and definitions and implications on these, what it means. So, two thoughts come to mind. Number one, if
 Council approves. It's not on the agenda right now. It will be coming up next after officers' reports. But for the interest of time, again, if that got approved and we moved it to the ZBA, council members certainly can show up and participate in the ZBA discussion. That's one option. I believe it would be January 18th.
 of the next CBA meeting. The other option would be to schedule an additional general discussion on our committee meeting. And one would be January 3rd. Potentially we can do that or just defer to Mr. Cagnoni to provide some additional options to get additional background information for council. Mr. Cagnoni, any thoughts? No.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We'd be happy to present on the 3rd or we could present on the 16th before the ZBA or we can wait until the 30th after we go through the public participation process. And we'd be happy to give a more thorough explanation and some of the implications.
 that may come up as we go through the public hearing process, because there certainly are some provisions related to non-conforming uses that will have an impact throughout our community. Additionally, I'd be happy to talk with anyone one-on-one to have further conversations as well, but we'd be happy to make those explanations. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. First of all, I would like to wish everyone here and within our community a Merry Christmas. Thank you.
 Secondly, I hope that if we do have a discussion, I do hope that we have it at some time other than when we have our regular meetings so that our regular meetings are prolonged any longer than we need to. I agree we need some understanding regarding some of the items.
 However, I don't think that any of us want to be here any longer than we should have to, and I think that it could be a very prolonged discussion, so I'm hoping that we can come up with a date other than our regular meetings. Thank you. Thank you. Other officer reports? Alderman Elliott. Thank you.
 I too would like to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and remind everyone to shop local if you haven't bought all of your gifts yet. Please remember our local retailers. When you spend money with them, the money is more likely to stay in our community. Thank you. All of Newburgh. Thank you. I also would like to wish everyone here in the viewing audience a very Merry Christmas. Have a safe Christmas.
 Nice holiday one thing I would like I was out After our snow which I have to comment we've had two two snows and I have given compliments to Public Works and a Couple of the crew chiefs and some of the plow drivers It's an experience to ride with the plow driver. I think everyone should do that once maybe not twice but once but
 I was going down, I'm in the 9th Ward, I was going down Ridge Avenue, and as I'm going south down Ridge Avenue, at each intersection, I'm looking east and west and going, that's clear. You know, our plows don't go down on residential down to the pavement. That don't happen, but they are clear. Except when you look and you see where a car was. Or worse yet,
 where a car still is. Today is Monday. It started snowing Friday. Move your cars. I would be willing, and I had talked with a couple of our friends
 department heads, I said, I think it's time for the next time we have a snow, that if there is a car, today is Monday, if there is a car or a vehicle on the street still covered with snow, give it a ticket. That is against the ordinance. Thank you.
 Why should we have to change our ordinances? We have them, the biggest complaint I get is that we don't enforce our ordinances. And this is one, I am sorry, it's a pet peeve. Every person can look down a street and go, hey, the street's really clear. The second thing is, if you are plowing, using a snow blower on your driveway, don't throw it into the street.
 I got three complaints and two of those were because out of 15 houses, 11 of those people had went out after the plows and they blew their snow into the street. Dumb dumb, I'm sorry. That's against, there's an ordinance against that too. So if we could use common sense and make this stuff
 put it out and get it out to the people, but let's ticket them. Thank you. Thank you. Other officers' reports? Alderman Hervey, then Alderman McNeely. It's not so much an officers' re... Well, a Merry Christmas to everyone, absolutely. But the other one is, for some time this year, if there's any stomach for it, I would like to have, in follow-up to Alderman Newberg,
 a broader discussion about snow-related parking. Whether, we talked at one time about whether as of November 1st or 15th or whatever, odd even goes into effect every day. It's just in effect so we could train people on it. The rudeness and the harm that is caused by people who do not move their cars is out of control in some areas. And I think mine is just bad.
 When those cars move, they push their snow into the street to dig themselves out. And then other people are calling me saying, there's a hill in the middle of the street. Well, that's because somebody put it there. And I do understand how with people's work schedules and not being in tune, they can miss it. So I would love to see us put that in effect. Now, there's going to be exceptions because there are some streets that,
 that can't accommodate the cars. I think we can work with some of those, but I would like to see us start looking at a better solution, because what we have now is not working for many, many areas. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. And I certainly appreciate what my fellow aldermen are saying about the parking and the moving of the cars during the snow or the shoveling of the snow into the street.
 And I, too, have a problem with cars being illegally parked during snow days. I've always emphasized and suggested that we do maintain a regular odd even the minute that in November so that we're not caught trying to tell people where to park or how to park or when to park.
 would just make it so much easier. Certainly, I have also pushed in the past for signs up throughout the neighborhood saying that starting as of November 1st of every year, then the odd evening parking goes into effect. If you don't do it, then you will get a ticket. I get frustrated too when people shovel snow out into the street, however,
 if they didn't move the car for whatever reason, they got to shovel it somewhere. And I don't think in this particular case we can have our cake and eat it too. When the snow plows come through,
 and pile up at your driveway or at your sidewalk where you have cleaned, and by them coming through, it causes them to go back out and shovel again. Where are they gonna put it? Of course it's gonna go out into the street. When I do it, I try to spread it out so that there isn't a pile there. But where am I gonna put it? I certainly don't wanna put it so close to my house that when there is a warm day,
 that it starts to melt and starts to go where my gutters are that are not set for winter or spring or something, yes. So I think that individuals, if we put that in force, we won't have so many snow piles out in the middle of the street when cars have illegally parked for whatever reason. I know that in some cases...
 individuals that may have, normally would not have done that. There are circumstances that would cause them to do it. But overall, what I'm trying to say is that if we do start, put those signs up, or start getting the notice out in beginning of November, then perhaps we won't have, and put forth the tickets.
 then perhaps we won't have that issue. But addressing the shoveling out of the driveways or sidewalks after the snowplows have come through is a totally different issue. Thank you. I would just comment that it seems like we're drifting away from officers' reports into an actually item of discussion that is worthy, certainly, of discussion, but I would just recommend if we want to put that on the agenda for codes and regs for a proposed ordinance change, we certainly could entertain that.
 If there's the will of the council to do so, I would just ask for those that are interested in following up on that specific item on our enforcement. And I know we looked at it a couple years ago. We'd certainly be willing to entertain that and adding that as an agenda item to codes and rugs. I'd ask Alderman to just coordinate with Alderman Shirelli on that if that's the case. Other officers' reports? All right, motions and resolutions. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you.
 The Roman numeral 7B, 1 and 2, those are the two text amendments. Request for authorization to allow the zoning officer to submit an application to the Zoning Board of Appeals for text amendments to the following sections of the zoning ordinance. And it goes on to list several different sections, Your Honor. So I place those two motions and resolutions up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage, Roman numeral 8B, items 1 and 2.
 The request for authorization for the zoning officer to submit an application of the ZBA for text amendments to the outlined sections. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Ross. Aye. Herbie. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. McNeely. Aye on B1, no on B2. Chiarelli. Aye. Thank you.
 Item number one, 12 ayes. Item number two, 10 ayes, 2 noes. The matter is carried. Thank you. Alderman Gatches. Thank you, Your Honor. I have 13 items put up for passage. Item number...
 Charlie 1, award a bid, West State Street Phase 2 demolition package E, consisting of five residential properties. Award of sole source contract to Southeast Rockford Superfund site, groundwater monitoring with Nationwide Environmental Services. Award of sole source contract, water meter supplies to Badger Meter Incorporated of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for an estimated annual value of $600,000. Item 10.
 Charlie Ford, award of joint purchasing contract, storm sewer inspection camera to Atlantic Machinery of Silver Spring, Maryland for contract amount of $123,376. Engineering agreement amendment, airport east watershed drainage study to Willett, Hoffman and Associates of Rockford, Illinois for an additional amount of $41,333 and a new total cost of $150,000. Funding sources, CIP General Fund.
 Renewal agreement, third party administrator for medical and hospital benefits for the health insurance plan to Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois. The contract amount rates of $50.55 per employee per month PPO plan and $44.14 per employee per month HSA plan. Total estimated annual administrated costs $10.
 are $697,037.04 based on 950 PPO participants and 228 HSA participants. Funding sources, health insurance fund, renewal agreement, dental benefits for 2017 planned year with Metropolitan Life Insurance for contract amount rates of $28.41 for employee-only coverage,
 $67.09 employee plus one, $128.78 for a family. At the current enrollment level, the total estimated annual premium will be $1,215,720. The funding source is the health insurance fund. Renewal of agreement, employer-paid group term life insurance for City of Rockford employees and metropolitan life insurance, their contract amount rates of $1,215,720
 0.108 dollars per thousand dollars of life insurance coverage and 0.04 dollars per one thousand dollars of AD&D coverage. At the current employee, I count the total estimated annual premium will be $56,940. The funding sources health insurance fund, renewal of agreement, pharmacy benefit, manager 2017 with Express Scripts Inc. for annual
 amount, rates, expenses will be on average wholesale price, less a discount. Total estimated cost is $3.6 million. Funding sources, health insurance fund, renewal of agreement for medical stop loss for 2017. Renewal of agreement, workers' compensation, excess policy 2017 to Safety National Casualty Corporation for contract amount rates. Premium is based on estimated annual payroll of
 $81,083,514.1806 per $100 of payroll for a total annual premium of $146,437. The funding source is workers' compensation fund. Rejection of bids, electrical parts and supplies for traffic signals and city-owned street lighting. Staff recommends rejecting the bids received and taking new bids. U.S. EPA Brownfield Grant applications requires resolution for the 20% local match.
 I place these items up for passage. Thank you. For passage, Roman numeral 8C, items 1 through 13. Is there discussion?
 Your Honor? Yeah, I'll let me get you. I move to amend Roman numeral 8, item C10, to reflect the following changes to pricing for the renewal agreement, medical stop loss 2017 for medical and prescription benefits covered under City of Rockford health insurance plan to nationwide insurance for contract amount rates of $21.61 per employee per month, single enrollment, and $50.16 per month, single
 per employee per month family enrollment, total estimated annual premium $585,040 based on current number of health insurance participants. The funding source is the health insurance fund. Thank you. I don't know if I have that crib. I want to make sure I have it right. It's the Roman World 8. I'm sorry. Thank you.
 So I just want to read that back to make sure I have it accurately. The amendment would be to Roman numeral 8C10 to reflect the changes in the pricing of the renewal of the agreement. Medical stop loss 2017 for medical and prescription benefits covered under the Cedar Rockford Health Insurance Plan and nationwide for the contract amount rates.
 $21.61 per employee per month, single enrollment. $50.16 per employee per month, family enrollment. Total estimated annual premium of $585,040 based on current number of health insurance participants with funding source being the health insurance fund. That's correct. It's been moved. Is there a second? It's moved and second. I need discussion on that amendment.
 Mr. McGatchez. Your Honor, this was thanks to our finance director for getting in touch nationwide and just negotiating lower rates. So it's a big improvement from last week to this week. So great job. Thank you very much for the additional discussion. If I may, that was actually Rockford Consulting. And just to specifically explain, as you might recall,
 As you might recall, our quote last week included a 2.2 percent increase for next year after some competition nationwide offered a lower rate, so it's status quo for next year. Thanks. Thank you, Alderman Harvey. And Alderman Frost. Yeah.
 U.S. EPA, this is number 13, the Brownfields Grant. The Watch Factory, I know the status. I discussed with Mr. Dust. I thought he was here. He is here. Oh, okay. Today, and thank you for that, for quite a while, and Mr. Cagnoni, the 128 Kishwaukee and why we had to take ownership and what would happen if we didn't get the grant.
 My question is with regard to 134 North Main, what is the status of ownership and the development agreement? Because I have a concern. I thought we transferred ownership to the person who was awarded the RFP, but apparently they didn't take ownership. We're still spending money on it.
 But we've got a development agreement that's still just sort of sitting out there. And without amending that development agreement, I get a little nervous about putting, I mean, we own the building, but we really don't own it. Because that person still has a development agreement that gives them significant authority over that building. Mr. Cagnone?
 Thank you, Your Honor. There is an existing development agreement on 134 North Main Street. This was a proposal that was awarded to Joseph James Development in 2015 for the redevelopment of the project. The terms of the development agreement set forth that the developer would
 pursue building permit no later than 90 days after the completion of the TIF, which in essence was the transfer of some properties into the River North TIF, which took effect January 1st. So in essence, that created a deadline approximately April 1st to move forward with the building permit.
 We have been actively engaged in working with Joseph James Development to move forward with the development. Their project has been caught up in analysis related to historic review under the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, understanding that it is in a federal historic district and they proposed they add four stories onto the existing two stories.
 The importance of the IHPA review is so that they can complete an environmental review to pursue the Section 108 loan. There is a clause within the development agreement that states that the city can put the developer on notice to move forward with the construction with a 30-day notice or terminate the agreement. In our most recent communication with Joseph James, they still have interest in pursuing the development and are
 actively working on getting the issue resolved with the IHPA. Our purpose for pursuing the grant is whether it's this developer or another developer, we believe that the utilization of the US EPA funds will ultimately allow us to drive down the cost and public participation, understanding that it is going to be a constraint on the project. I guess what my concern is, and I understand that things go wrong with developments, but I was,
 really concerned about reading in the newspaper that Gorman, we're going to have to redo the Gorman deal. We spent, and I don't know if Mr. Vittner knows how many millions, but we had to do it now, had to do it now, had to do it now, the two-way conversion of South Main. I love that South Main went to a two-way conversion, but this panel, the aldermen, did not want to spend those funds on that.
 They did it because we were told that we had to get it done for Gorman. We rerouted or eliminated the, I call it the Wyman Street curve, at millions of dollars, and Gorman has not performed. But yet, when people aren't performing on these development agreements, we aren't taking any action. Yes, council has the authority to do so, and I know somebody's going to say that. I don't feel that I should have to.
 I think as a city, we need to come to grips with how we're going to deal with these. I don't want to lose the developer, but as an attorney, I get really nervous about waiver claims when we're not exercising our right to protest or to rewrite or to modify agreements when the developer's not performing. And now here we've got a second one where, you know, we're spending money because we still own the building, and we thought we were done with that.
 supposed to, when we bought that building, I think we were told there was gonna be like a 90-day, maybe a three, six-month turnaround, and then the building was going to be transferred to a new developer. Then, I mean, how many years has this dragged out? And that's taxpayer funds that are being spent on it. So that's what my objection is, but I do agree
 that we need to clean it up. I'm concerned about cleaning it up when we've got a real messy situation with the development agreement still giving rights to a third party. Are you completed? I didn't want to interrupt you. No, I'm done. It's just... What on this agenda has to do with 134 North Main? Which number? An item that is accurate. On item 13, if you look in the detail for the use of the
 grant funds should they be obtained this request correct me if I'm wrong just a lot is asking for council support to file the grant application mr. Cagnone is that right that is correct it's for community-wide assessment grant for hazardous substances as well as petroleum review as well as site specific cleanup grants for 134 North Main Street 128 kishwaukee street and the watch factory thank you
 Other hands, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So are these the only two that are under that U.S. EPA that we're filing for, just those two properties? Mr. Cagnone. So there's three. So the request is to apply for U.S. EPA grant funds for the year 2018, and there's a number of applications that we can apply for.
 One area that we're asking for authorization to apply for is the community-wide assessment grant. If we were successful, we would obtain $300,000 for community-wide assessment of environmental issues, $150,000 focused on hazardous substance, and another $150,000 focused on petroleum. This gives us the ability to go in, do phase 1s, phase 2s,
 on multiple sites and prepare them for additional investment. This has been a key to creating a pipeline for grant opportunities such as site specific grants when we're trying to redevelop properties. They're also very key to the successful revolving loan program that we have related to environmental
 In addition to the community wide assessment, we have three site specific project cleanup grants that we're asking for. $200,000 for the city owned Rockford Watch Factory, $175,000 for 134 North Main Street, as well as an allocation for Lloyd's Hearing Building, which would be up to $200,000 to have these properties cleaned and environmental site assessment.
 Is there a follow-up, Alderman McNeely? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So is it possible that we can delineate some items with this application or remove one or more items from this application? So what was offered specifically? Is there any additional discussion on that? Aye. No. Excuse me. I was.
 I posed the question, I need an answer. Thank you. My question was out of the application, can we separate certain items and maybe not submit certain items as part of the application?
 Certainly, Your Honor. Yes, you may. That would be the discretion of the council. Should you only want to pursue the community-wide assessment grant for hazardous substance incident petroleum, you could. Alternatively, if there's one of the site-specific properties that you did not want to pursue, that would be in your discretion. It will be, in essence, in many ways, four separate applications, one for each one of the site assessment, specific site assessments, and one for the community-wide assessment grants.
 But whether or not those specific items already included any of the charges since we are a self-insured plan, whether or not any of those are passed on to the end insurers. Are they lost or so we can pass it on? Yes, so we recapture any of those costs on, we see the charges as far as like for instance what they are on an individual or family basis and I'm just wondering, you know, if you
 Can we capture some of those going forward from the individual policyholders? If I understand, with some regard, theoretically, yes. I mean, you have things like the medical stop-loss contract. You have pharmacy benefit manager. If you look at some of the trends, you know, with respect to lowering cholesterol, lowering high blood pressure, those sorts of things, over the course of time,
 with employees that continue to utilize the Wellness Center. They're at lower risk for heart attack, heart disease, stroke, other different types of ailments, which hopefully can be eliminated through healthier lifestyle, working with the clinic, coaching, that sort of thing. You know, obviously, something like the dental insurance has no
 on the Wellness Center, that sort of thing. But, yeah, for the most part, over time, fund-wide, we should see some reductions. Are you talking about just generally premium deductible copay? Correct. I'm really talking about how they affect the Wellness Center, just as far as these specific costs per policy. Well, I would ask probably, you know,
 Ms. Eklund to comment specifically on the impact on the fund, but as just a general point of information, we charge out premiums, we have deductibles, we have copays. All of that money gets put into the health fund. The fund balance is positive from those revenues. And I could just tell you historically from where we came when I was first in office in
 We didn't have much at all. We had a real Cadillac plan. We still are considered, frankly, a Cadillac plan under the language of the Affordable Care Act, but it was an ultra Cadillac, I guess, you know, when we started making changes. There's been discussion about can we tweak up, increase the charges on premiums with the nonrepresented. Some of the data Ms. Eklund presented, I think, last week had some of that information. The challenge is, of course, you know,
 that has impact on those disparities potentially could have impacts on the whole employee base. But we've come a long way, and these had to be negotiated first, AFSCME, and then fire and police ultimately, and we've worked to try to align so that all of our collective bargaining units were on essentially the same
 plan base terms. All that goes into the positive on the fund balance. But the fund balance ultimately means that we have to charge out to all of our departments whatever we don't collect in premiums. So that's why we have a $25,000 per family plan average around there
 but anyways so the short answer is yes they do help and they contribute could we do more on that uh i think over time we certainly can uh but those those immediate charges um benefit the fund balance and i would just say to mr denham's point the whole idea of redirecting our primary care spend and some of our other spend into the clinic is that we get the benefit um
 Because we're going to spend the money anyways, but we get the benefit of better long-term preventative care when we do it. Thank you. That helps. Thank you. Mr. Bruns is nodding the back. He thinks I've learned something over the last 12 years of dealing with this. Thank you very much. Any other discussion? Who did I miss? And I know there's a couple. Alderman Hervey was next. Yeah, I don't, I agree with Mr. Cagnoni. In order to move that building.
 we need to clean it up. And I'm not opposed to having the $175,000 to do the cleanup. What I'm asking is that we clean up that development agreement that's hanging out there. That's, and again, if there's something we can do to help Joseph James with the State Historic Preservation Committee, it's just as a lawyer, I get very nervous when we're not executing
 on contract terms. You know, we did it with Gorman. I just don't like it. So I guess I'm asking, as an administration, if there's something we need to do as a city council,
 I may have mistaken. I apologize if I didn't get your question answered before. I expect Joseph James to be coming back in the relatively near future after the first year with a proposed change in the development agreement. Part of the, I think the delay has been that they have not been able to get a definitive answer from the state. If I may, I'm sorry, I'm
 That's the last I was engaged in the detailed conversation. There was still conversation about getting approval from the state to be able to build the four stories out of the building. And that was, I don't know if that's been resolved since, but in a conversation that I had with one of the principals of Joseph James recently, it's my expectation that they will be bringing something back, meeting with staff, trying to work through a proposal that can come back to council after the first year. Thank you.
 Alderman Beach and Alderman LA. I can't remember who's next. I apologize Cagnone do you want to take that?
 Sure, Your Honor. So on the site-specific grants, you know, we've set forth a particular amount in which we
 one, what is eligible to apply for, maximum of $200,000 or a lesser amount, which we believe would cover the cost. So for example, for the property of 134 North Main, we've applied for $175,000 and we've identified the 20% local match in the form of labor materials and other services provided from the city from non-federal sources. So in essence, we use in-kind activities and in many ways the salaries to facilitate these programs.
 Specifically, the question came up related to 128 Kishwaukee Street where we've applied for $200,000 and you know, Mr. Dust responded to the question in regards to, you know, as
 At this point in time, we've done a phase one, and we've done a phase two. We know that there's soil contaminants in the ground, but we haven't gone out to bid on what the costs are for the full remediation. We anticipate that due to the remediation, we're gonna have to remove the building through demolition, which is also an eligible EPA expense. For these reasons, we've gone after the property. Now, should we come back and find out there's more contaminants,
 and that the remediation is going to cost an excess amount, we're going to have to bring it forward to this council for consideration on how we're going to move forward. I believe what Mr. Dust had represented in answering that question is that in the past, we've been successful on using revolving loan funds and other grants that we have in receipt
 not getting ready to apply for, to clean up properties. We did that with the TAPCO site. We've done that with the Barbara Coleman site. We did that with the former Ingersoll site, which is now the UW Sports Factory. Again, trying to maximize, you know, grant dollars and minimize local dollars to clean these properties up.
 Do with number 11. When we were talking about the wellness clinic initially, one of the benefits that was given to us is the possibility that our workman's comp claims would be down lower. And I should have asked that before when Ryan was talking. Has there been any track on that since we started, that our workman's comp claims have been down? Mr. Denham?
 I think if we're actually going to have some significant reductions in workers' comp costs, we have to talk about the second phase of building out the facility to the extent that we can add a physical therapist on site. Economically, if we can make that make sense, I think there could be some significant savings in that regard. All right. Thank you. Paula Malley. In regards to the property at 128 Kishwaukee,
 I'm disappointed to hear that there's contaminants so great there that it's gonna require to tear that building down. I'm curious what was the previous use that caused what kind of contaminants is my first question. I thought it was the old trolley barn. I recall having a conversation with you, Mayor, many years ago about what a interesting building that would be for some kind of brewery or restaurant or something.
 Can staff just tell me what caused the contaminants? Mr. Cagnone? Thank you, Your Honor, and thank you, Alderman Elliott. You are correct, it was the previous trolley barn, bus barn, you know, for the city. What exactly caused the contaminants? I can't say on the business process, but what we have done as part of the phase two is we had the soils examined
 examined through that effort and there was a number of contaminants in the soil that need to be remediated. It is a very unique building, however it has deteriorated very rapidly because it's not waterproof.
 I've already had to direct our staff to go in there on more than one occasion and you know remove parts of the wall that are failing and falling into the public parking lot to protect the general public and general safety. A number of staff members went through the property over the last couple months as we were evaluating that and it's not waterproof the walls are starting to fail, the roof is leaking and
 you know, at this time we believe the best approach is to raise the building, you know, correct the contaminants and move forward with the redevelopment site. Other discussion? I missed anybody. So up for passage is Roman numeral eight, C items one through 13. Item 10 was amended to reflect those changes in the costs of the nationwide insurance prescription benefits plan.
 Any additional discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Hervey. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Alley. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Twelve ayes. Your honor. Matters all passed. Thank you.
 Move on to new business, Solomon Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There's three items on Roman numeral 10A. The first is the ordinance approving the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau 2017-2022 Contract for Service Agreement.
 Second is an ordinance approving the lease agreement with Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau for the property located at 102 North Main Street for years 2017 to 2022. And lastly is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Board of Education, School District Number 205 related to requests for proposals for the adaptive reuse of Walker Elementary School located at 1520 Post Avenue.
 Your Honor, I'd like to make a motion to suspend the rules on these three items.
 It's been a motion second spend the rules in Roman numeral 9 a Adams 1 2 & 3 all those in favor Please say aye aye opposed. No, I said it. Thank you. Thank you your honor Then I would like to place Roman numeral 9 a 1 2 & 3 up for passage matters are for passage I note that one would be amended pursuant to the vote earlier in this evening on the committee report Would reflect any further discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getsch. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Herbie. 1-2. Abstain. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Aye. McNeely. Call on three. Item number 90. Chiarelli. Items 1 and 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 10 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. Matters passed. Thank you.
 of it really thank your honor Roman numeral being one through sticks I'd like to hold out item number two this evening your honor and I'll are you want to hold that out yes I'd like to move to suspend the rules and remaining items second emotion second spend the rules and Roman roll 9 be at this one
 3, 4, 5, and 6. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. And again, that item 2 will be held out. The other one's motion to suspend the rules carries. Alderman Shrelling? I place those remaining items up for passage, Your Honor. As matters 9B, 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6 are up for passage as they are in discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Duchess. Aye. McEwen. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Connell, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Matters passed. Thank you. I'll make it. Thank you, Your Honor. I have six items placed up for passage.
 Roman numeral nine, Charlie one through six. Charlie one, an ordinance approving revision to City of Rockford's regulations regarding reimbursement of travel expenses to comply with local government Travel Expense Control Act, change order to the i-Fiber contract amendment, an ordinance approving approval of federal grant funds for the annual continuation of Head Start and Early Head Start, an ordinance approving the recommendations regarding changes to the governance process for Head Start, an ordinance approving the 2016 supplemental appropriations ordinance,
 and ordinance for the sale of property located at 804 Haskell Avenue. I move to suspend rules on these items. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 9C, items 1 through 6. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. All right. Place those items up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Durkee. Aye. Ditches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Aye. McNeely. Cheerilly. Items 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 12 ayes. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 1 no. That is all passed. Thank you. Is there any additional business before the council?
 Hearing none, as I ask for a motion to adjourn, I just want to wish everybody a Merry Christmas. I look forward to seeing you all in the new year. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Motion and second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.