in our evening we have an invocation from Chaplain Roy Whitmore. Chaplain Roy Whitmore here. Alderman Beach would you be willing to provide an invocation for us this evening? Oh, Pastor Borg, would you be willing to provide us an invocation this evening? Let us pray.
 Dear God, we invoke your spirit in this place. We thank you for all the hard work that goes on in these chambers. Thank you for guiding us here safely. May everything we say and do glorify you. Help us to remember your son who you sent to show your love. Let us extend that love to others. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen.
 Thank you again, Reverend Board. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Irvins. 12 present. Thank you. Could I please have a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on December 3rd, 2018? Yes.
 We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Motion passes. May I have a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on December 10th, 2018? We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have a public hearing that Alderman Chiarelli will be conducting for us.
 Thank you, Your Honor. This evening a public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes, 5 slash 11 dash 15.1 dash 3 for the pre-annexation agreement for the following property. 3700 Brookview Road, city owned property. Are there any comments or questions from the city council? Are there any comments or questions from the general public? I now hear this hearing closed, Your Honor.
 Thank you Alderman Chiarelli. Next up we have a special presentation from Marathon Health for our four-year review. And you can take both those mics out if you also want to stand and welcome us. Thank you. Thank you Mayor. Thank you ladies and gentlemen of the City Council. My name is Ryan Bronze with Rockford Consulting and we've been working with you for several years regarding your the administration of your employee benefit plan. I want to thank you very much for that privilege.
 One thing I remind you all at this time of year, this is the time of year where we get to talk about insurance, is that you're actually running a small insurance company. So among the many hats that you wear as alderman, one of the things you're doing is running a self-funded health insurance company. So we have stop loss insurance for very large claims, but by and large you should think of it this way. Every time somebody goes to the doctor or gets a prescription, it pretty much comes right out of our general fund.
 And the internal service fund, the health fund, has actually been performing pretty well. One of the things I also want to remind you is that even though the health fund has been running pretty well, it's about continuous process improvements. We're always looking for ways to reduce expenses and to improve the services to the employees.
 We can do that one of two ways. We can either contract for it less expensively. We go to Blue Cross, for example, for the discounts that Blue Cross Blue Shield provides to us. And they give us excellent service, and we're very satisfied with them.
 Or we can try to make people healthier so people don't need to use the doctor as much or need to go to the hospital as much. And that's really what we're going to focus on tonight is on the utilization side. We have a very significant plan that's been put in place. And we could not do this, by the way, without your human resource folks.
 So, in working with Kim Ryan over the years and Director Hunter, they're an outstanding human resource group to work with. And I kid you not, the sophisticated things that you're doing as administrators of this health plan, you couldn't do without your senior administrators buying in from the mayor's office and on down, as well as your HR folks.
 We're trying to prevent disease, we're trying to manage disease, and we're trying to bring in consumerism, consumer-driven behavior, people making better decisions. We do that by looking at three very specific things, satisfaction, improved outcomes, and reducing costs. That's the triple aim. That brings us to Marathon Health.
 One of the things we decided to do several years ago was contract directly with an operator to provide primary care and preventive services to our folks. There are a few reasons we did that. One, and Dr. Durkee may be able to attest to this, we are losing primary care physicians in our community. They're retiring. They're being bought by hospitals. There are fewer of them. And that's putting pressure on us and it's putting pressure on all of our employees.
 redirected care. When we looked at the spend in the employee benefit plan, it was less expensive for us to contract directly with an independent operator than what we were paying primary care physicians in the field. That's one of the reasons that we did this. And the plan's actually been working very well. So I'm going to introduce Lauren May. Lauren works for Marathon Health Systems. They are our
 independent operator of the clinic. The clinicians in the clinic actually work for Marathon Health. I would also like to let you know that the amount of data that you're going to see tonight, we had a very long meeting this afternoon with the mayor and the city administrator where we did a very deep dive.
 But this is what it takes in order to run this type of a program, in order to come up with the medical perspective that's necessary to treat all of our people. And make no mistake, there's different needs with police, different needs with fire. Everybody here, every department has kind of its own unique set of needs and circumstances. And Marathon Health provides the amount of data that we need in order to do that. And we're going to briefly go through some of that data this evening. I'm going to turn it over to Lauren.
 Thank you, Ryan. All right. So as Ryan said, I'm Lauren May. I'm the account manager for the City of Rockford Wellness Center. And I want to go through our year four review with you. So quickly, our agenda today. So we'll have a high-level executive summary. We'll talk about volume and engagement, touch on our risk mitigation, claims trend analysis. We'll look a little bit at the dollars saved, satisfaction survey results, and then summaries and next steps.
 So real quick, I just want to go over our model of care. So how do we come about, you know, looking at the population and really trying to change the health outcomes? So really what we do is the first thing is identifying the risk. So we want to look at the claims data that comes in. We want to look at health risk assessments that our patients complete, biometric screenings that happen, and then try to identify what that risk is in the population and then target an outreach to prevent these health concerns from happening.
 We do that through comprehensive health reviews. So we have discussions with the patients on their personal health care and journey. We have one-on-one health coaching visits to talk about how they can improve their health. And then general disease management. And what we do is we look to make sure that that is having an impact in really helping that patient, that person, really make smart decisions about their health. And that's how we...
 enable, you know, not only getting them better and making them feel healthier, but also rolls right into the cost savings that everyone gains. And you know, when I
 opportunity here to tell a little bit of a story. We did have a patient come in through one of the incentives and she was having a CHR visit, which is a comprehensive health review, and the practitioner learned during that visit that the patient was going to the ER to contain their asthma symptoms. So they were having asthma attacks and going to urgent
 And so the practitioner took the opportunity to use motivational interviewing to understand the patient and why they were having the asthma attacks and see if we could do some preventative maintenance there. And what they found out is that the asthma was seasonally derived, so it was a simple fix to put that patient on some seasonal allergy medication. And in fact, what that did was it stopped that person from having to go to the,
 ER or urgent care to manage your asthma symptoms and therefore they're spending a lot less money Just by you know managing it, but also they feel a lot better in the process So that's really those opportunities that we look for Thank you. Sure. So quick exact executive summary so our claims paid are eleven point one million less than our projected for the four years and
 Overall employee independent engagement has held steady in year four. We've increased our baseline screening rates year over year with year four being the highest yet at 88%.
 We have 820 unique patients improving at least one risk factor, one high risk factor. And we have 96% of the patients that were surveyed very satisfied or satisfied with the care at the City of Rockford Wellness Center, which is the highest we've had over the four years.
 So just a quick snapshot of our team. So on the left we have Dr. Steven Nitz, who is our medical director and MD. We have Rose Ebert and Evelyn Collins and Carly Dobson, who are our medical assistants, and Brenda Garrett, who is our nurse practitioner.
 So this slide shows our total population participation and engagement over the four years. So with employees we are surpassing our benchmark for both coaching and acute. We have risen a little over the end of this year for coaching only but we are not quite at that benchmark for our employees so we do have some room for growth there but with both of our coaching and acute and coaching only benchmarks we've surpassed those with with dependents which is great to see.
 Engagement by bargaining unit. This is an interesting slide. You'll see that with our AFSCME group, we've actually surpassed both our coaching and acute benchmarks. And one of the things that we've noticed is that with AFSCME, they do have an incentive to come into the health center to get both a blood draw and have a comprehensive health review conversation with the clinician.
 And we found that this has definitely increased the engagement from both a coaching standpoint and just an overall standpoint. So it could be an opportunity here to incorporate that into the path to wellness incentive, which the other bargaining units participate in. So if we had a coaching visit or a comprehensive health review visit included in one of those, that could be really beneficial to increasing our engagement.
 All right, so this is our service volume trend by type. So this is looking at years one through four. And then at year four, you'll see there's a lot of peaks and valleys. So we do have a lot of months where we're doing a lot of stuff. We have a lot of occupations.
 occupational health going on especially in january high flu month we also do programming that's bringing folks into the center but there are some lower months during the summer so what we really want to focus on here is how do we even this out a bit so that we can you know bring people in year round get them engaged year round and also just help from a capacity standpoint with our clinicians
 Overall, from last year, we have a 6% increase in coaching, which is really where we want to see that increase because that's how we're able to really affect the patient's health outcome and see those savings come in. Screening and risk identification. So with employees and the incentives that we have in place through both Path to Wellness and the AFSCME incentive.
 We have a really high rate of screening. Our book of business is 69% and the City of Rockford is coming in at 88%, which is fantastic. So we have a lot of information on the patient population from an employee standpoint because through that screening information we can identify those folks that are high risk or chronic and we can also do outreach and put together our programming to make sure that we hit those high risk factors.
 With our spouses, we have a little bit of an opportunity. Our benchmark is 47. We're coming in at 42. So we could really maybe bring in an incentivized opportunity through spouses to come in and get that screening. Because the more information we have, the better we can do for outreach and understanding what those high-risk conditions are.
 This slide showcases the prevalence of risk factors in chronic conditions. So we look at the screening information I just spoke about. We look at our health risk assessment that folks take as part of their incentive. We look at claims data and we say, all right, where does Rockford come in as compared to the U.S. prevalence rate?
 And so we take this information and we see that obesity, cholesterol, high blood pressure, tobacco use, and asthma are some of the high risk factors that are coming in. And so what we look to do is create our programming around that. So for example, cholesterol, you know, if we want to promote a know your numbers campaign to get people to understand their cholesterol and really target to change that since we know it's a high risk factor in the population.
 Here's a snapshot of some of the programs that we've done over 2018. So we've done a lot of different types of programs and we coordinate really closely with the HR department in putting these out to the population. And again, we use the information that I just showed to, you know, package together the programs that are going to make the most impact. So for example, we had a Walktober department step challenge where maybe some of you are
 you competed against one another and to see who could make the most steps and so we're fighting you know just different health conditions with that particular program we also have school physicals where we incentivize folks to come in through a hundred dollar gift giveaway to Dick's Sporting Goods
 We have a meet and greet that's happening. We do lunch and learns. And then we also coordinate with the city on the programs that they put out too. So the Battle of the Badges, we work together with them on some of the other programs that they do. And they have come to our customer forum, which has been fantastic. And the police came last year too. So we do a lot of coordination to make sure that we get out into the population and engage those high risk factors and make an impact.
 this is a quick slide on employee progress on those key biometric risk factors so we're looking at the risk factors here that are in the population and we use this data like the data that i showed before to really figure out our strategy so we're beating the blue bars are um the city of rockford and then the gray is our benchmark so we're beating our benchmarks for employees with these biometric factors with the exception of the
 cholesterol here. So we take this information and that cholesterol campaign, the Know Your Numbers, we say, okay, that's when we really need to focus on and this is when it's going to create big impact and change. Here's a snapshot of our chronic condition standard of care metrics. So our benchmarks for standard of care for chronic conditions are 75%. And so what we're looking at is to hit five out of six of these categories for diabetics and five out of seven of these categories for asthmatics and
 We have hit those benchmarks again for the fourth year in a row at 82% for diabetics and 81% for asthmatics. And these conditions are things that we do proactive outreach for, not only to make sure that folks are at standard of care, but also just to do general outreach and make sure that folks are doing all right.
 This is a quick slide on claims trend analysis. So this is really what we're looking at is your annual savings. So over the four years, we've come in at $11.1 million in annual savings and a 3.2 ROI.
 For year four, we have 3.4 million specifically and a 3.8 ROI. And the way we calculate this is we use that green line, which is the projected claim spend. We have a 6.5% projection that we use, and we base it off of two years prior to opening.
 And then we look at what the actual monthly claims are, which is the blue bar, and we basically subtract the trend, the amount from the projected inflation, from the actual monthly claims trend to get that annual savings. And then the ROI is calculated based upon how much the cost of the center is to the city. Two other points.
 Not included in this slide is the occupational health services savings. So we do quite a bit of occupational health, which I mentioned previously. And this year we came in around $48,000 for savings in occupational health and a four-year total of about $205,000.
 In addition, we did some other research into just those who are engaged with the center versus those who have not visited the center before. And if we're looking at engagement being coaching, two or more coaching visits, we did see per member per year $1,000 savings on average for those folks who have been engaged from a coaching standpoint versus those that have not. So with that 6% increase in coaching, that's where we're going to find our savings.
 Overall patient satisfaction, again, 96%, which I'm really excited about. We were at 90% last year. We have hit our benchmark every year, but folks are really excited about the service they're getting and the relationships that they build with our clinicians. Here's a quick snapshot of the summary of years one through four. I'd say our greatest opportunities here,
 are really getting out into the population. I would love to have our clinicians really go to the departments and talk to folks and get them engaged in their health and get out of the center a little bit more. I think there's an opportunity there for folks to even know we exist. You know, we do a lot of communication, but you do get folks saying, oh, we didn't even know we had the opportunity to use you. So I think getting out into the population is going to be something that will really benefit us.
 I also think that the outreach and programming that we do needs to be specific on those high-risk factors. So I have a next slide really kind of showcases our engagement plan, but really focusing on those things that we've learned throughout the year to figure out how we want to go forward to improve, continue to improve the health of the population, specifically targeting those things that are high-risk factors. And then revitalize and restructure incentives. I mean, we have an opportunity here.
 to potentially figure out how to, you know, get spouses to screen more, or if we can get folks in to the center through the Path to Wellness incentive, I really do feel that our engagement will rise there.
 And then, you know, finally I think one other thing to mention is we are looking to hire on a full-time MD. Our current MD is part-time, only working six hours a week, so I think bringing on a full-time MD is going to really help have complete ownership over the role and the leadership
 quick snapshot of our engagement plan just a couple things i know it's busy slide but so blood pressure is one thing we we saw that was a really high risk and we want to do meet and greets or i'm sorry blood pressure pop-ups in specific departments to get people engaged we're looking to bring in you know melanoma screening and you know cholesterol education month in september doing a campaign about knowing your numbers so
 these are all things we're working on the city with to put in place based on the information that we got from last year thank you lauren is there questions from the alderman alderman mcneely thank you mr mayor i would like to have the calculation printed for the claims trend analysis total medical sure i know you reviewed it but yeah
 Absolutely, yeah. We actually break it down into two distinct pieces and I can give you both. One with total claims and then one with the high cost claims excluded. So we'll make sure to get both of those to you. Thank you. Sure. Good question. Any other questions? Well, Lauren and Ryan, thank you both so much for the work that you do to help keep our employees healthy and save some money while doing it. Thank you. And thanks everyone for your time.
 So moving next uh, we have no proclamations this evening So next is into petitions and communications alderman rose for planning and development. Thank you your honor We actually have two items some of the sheets only had one so um
 For item one, we have a memorandum from LaFakeri Yvonne, Assistant City Attorney, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Board of Library Trustees of the City of Rockford Library for the development of 227 North Wyman Street and the request for proposal RFP process referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 The second item is a memorandum from LaFerriere Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding an intergovernmental agreement and bylaws to establish the Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority between Winnebago County, Boone County, the City of Rockford, the City of Belvedere, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you Alderman Rose. Next up we have Alderman Trelle for Code and Regulation. Thank you Your Honor. I've got three items this evening. First, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on December 18, 2018 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on January 2, 2019.
 Second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on December 18, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on January 2, 2019.
 The third is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding the proposed city of Rockford vacant and foreclosing property registry. Refer to the codes and regulations committee, your honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelle. Next up we have Alderman Beck with finance and personnel committee. Thank you, your honor. I have a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, finance director regarding review of NRN recommendations. I have a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, finance director regarding the 2018 supplemental appropriation ordinance.
 i have a memorandum from carrie hagerty finance director regarding the 2019 supplemental appropriation ordinance and i have a memorandum from mike hockinson land transaction officer regarding the acceptance of offer for 1006 1116 west state street and 107 to 113 avon street these four items will be referred to finance and personnel
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. Next up, we have our public speakers. Just want to remind all public speakers that you'll have three minutes and there's microphones on both the right and left back portion of the horseshoe. First public speaker we have this evening is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 22nd chapter, the 6th verse, it says, train up a child the way he should go. And when he gets old, he will not depart from it. What I want to speak about tonight, how to reduce the crime, the violence, and killing in Rockford.
 By using my 18 point system. One, give people jobs that pay good wages and benefits. Two, have the bus run 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Fix and flex routes so people can get to jobs and back home. Three, have free daycare service so women can get to jobs and go to school. Four, have affordable education. Five, have affordable homes and rental apartments.
 6. Give mental treatment by opening up all the mental hospitals. 7. Open up drug and alcoholic treatment facilities. 8. Give felonies a second chance, like God gave us with his grace and mercy, by giving them a job and a place they can call home. 9. Increase the quantity and availability of parenting workshops throughout Rockford. This will empower families with support to help them steer their children toward leading socially and economic lives.
 Ten, strictly enforce curfew laws by having children who are under 18 or are not going to work or school to be in the house at 6 p.m. All people must have an ID in their pocket. Most fatal shootings take place after midnight. Many young lives could have been saved if the victim had simply been assigned as required by law. Eleven, expand drug court, other therapy court models, and mental health services. These programs ensure that participant criminal cases are released back to society with support services.
 that reduce the likelihood of them committing a violent crime. 12. Charge individuals pulling the trigger in cocosperia with domestic terror. It is clear that the small minority of individuals responsible for neighborhood violence do not fear the law. 13. Increase the use of the sheriff, the park police, and state police in high crime areas to help rock the police. 14. Increase penalties for people illegally in possession of a firearm and expand gun buyback programs. 15. Help police respond quickly to 911 calls. This will keep criminals
 balance. 16 have police saturated high crime areas. This will deter 17 have police to walk beats. This will help police to win the trust in the community. Being a patrol car, isolate them from the community. 18 Anybody who have a party in Rockford and their house must pay for a permit. They must let the city know three weeks ahead of time. The party must end in love so police can patrol that. If you notice the pattern, most crime in Rockford are domestic violence, drug related, gang related, drive by shoe, revealing that
 If you use my 18-point system, you can reduce crime in Watterson Rock by giving the people hope. Because poverty, hopelessness, and despair is the mother of crime. And if you give me 30 million women with walkie-talkies working with the police, I can reduce crime in Rockford in 90 days. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet Youssef. Next up, we have Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the men and all the women, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs 26 says, Fear of people can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form. It can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear of people who can do no harm? Instead, fear of God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust in him. In the past two years, Donald Trump had more members in his cabinet fired—
 or quit or had served jail time in the history of the United States. So, not so long ago, I was at a meeting in Rockford where members of the city and also a member of Rockford housing authorities stated that, John, you're just a regular citizen, a resident.
 So, I want to look it up. A professional who has acquired knowledge and skills through study and practice over the years is a particular field of subject to the extent that his or her opinion may be helpful in fact-finding, problem solving, or understanding of a situation. See also expert evidence. An expert is someone who has a prolonged or intense experience through practice.
 education in a particular field. An expert more generally is a person with extensive knowledge or ability based on research, experience or occupation in a particular area of study. So who is John Tack Brantley? Born in Chicago. At the age of 10 years old, the leader of the Pee Wee Pike Town Gangster Cherokee Rangers,
 of the main 21 Blackstone nation with 465 males and females that follow me. Grew up in a domestic violence where my grandfather used to beat up on my grandmother on a regular basis for 15 years. My mother had to serve time because she was beaten up by her ex-boyfriend. She got tired of being hit, so she hit back.
 I was one of the main peoples on the war council for the Black Panther Party at the age of 12 years old. I've been caught up in three decades of riot. Finished high school at Dunbar Vocational High School on June the 24th with a diploma. Went to Lewis University and major in social justice with a 3.12 grade point average. Have a master in cross-cultural and race relations with my study and hood. I see domestic violence on a weekly basis.
 The CEO renewed Turning Point program that started with over 180 youth and adults. At any given time of day or week, you can see Brother John Tech with 1550 or more youth and adults over the neighborhood network per president.
 and 5th Precinct Committee. We have taken youth to places they have never been before. We will end this year by taking 40 youth and adults to the Harlem Gold Travelers Gang. It's sad that most of the youth that I'm taking there never heard of the Harlem Gold Travelers before, which is going to be on December 30th. We are still looking for donations. We have been taking average youth and adults that have never been. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Okay. Thank you.
 Next public speaker is Reverend Tenneth Board. Good evening. Thanks for allowing me this opportunity to speak to you in support of the Community Relations Commission. Thanks to each of you, starting with our Mayor, McNamara, to all the aldermen and staff for your countless hours that you expend in making Rockford a greater place to live, work, and play.
 I highly recommend that you vote to approve the enactment of this commission, which I believe would be an inclusive asset to you as alderman. Your job is one that requires constant engagement, negotiation, planning, understanding of data and community concerns, needs and opportunities. While needing to effectively serve the citizens of Rockford, you must also maintain your home, your personal careers.
 Without a paid staff to research community issues, it is almost impossible to expect you to consistently make wise and sometimes quick decisions which impact the lives and vitality of all Rockfordians. Mayor McNamara, having already served effectively as an alderman, has come up with a brilliant plan supported by his HR department to enact the Community Relations Commission.
 His executive team have developed a charter to include major areas that US aldermens will need for community input and support.
 This is an advisory group. This is not a group that make policy that tell you how to vote, what to do. We know that you represent your constituents, but I believe as a part of the steering committee of Transform Rockford, if we're going to transform my city by 2025 or any time in the future, it's going to take collaboration, unity, mutual understanding, mutual sacrifice, give and
 And I believe this commission will give you the input up and down, in other words, they will be able to
 to be a resource for you if you need any type of investigation or any type of research that is done as well as they can make advice to you. This commission will provide free research, synergy and alternatives for crafting policies and laws which will enable you to better manage our cities, assets and resources. Another benefit is that they do the research and take the pulse of the community. They tell you how the community feels.
 it is my understanding that the community relations commission will be an advisory only committee and be comprised of a diverse and inclusive people group let me just summarize by saying please think collaboratively and big picture as you prepare to vote
 Tonight together we can transform Rockford one informed decision at a time with the advice and counsel of the Community Relations Commission Thanks again for your time and for your attention and I wrote this down because I'm about this preaching I can be long-winded. Thank you And thank you for providing the invocation this evening next public speaker. We have this evening as Sylvia Coton Is Sylvia Coton in I
 Not seeing Sylvia, we'll move on unless she comes back. Next up, we have new committee reports, planning and development. Alderman Rose. For items A, number one, we have the 2019 Annual Action Plan Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnership, Emergency Solution Grants Program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 For item two, it's a development agreement for Swedish American Hospital, 1401 East State Street. I put those forth to move forward. Thank you. Alderman Rose, we have two items before the council. Any discussion on the two items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelling. Rose. Aye.
 Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely. Item number 1, 12 ayes. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Thank you. Both of those items passed. Next up, we have code and regulation with Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got the...
 five traffic related committee reports this evening the first is a Committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a two-hour parking restriction on the west side of 7th Street from Charles Street To First Avenue thus repealing the existing 30-minute parking restriction number two the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish all established traffic control at the intersection of Orange Street and Broadway and
 Three, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish angle parking on Charles Street from 125 feet south of Center Terrace to the end of Charles Street north of Broadway. Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a parking restriction of no parking any time on the south side of 4th Avenue, 75 feet east of 7th Street to 140 feet east of 7th Street.
 Number five the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commit Commission's recommendation of no action on the following items number one establishing And always stop at the intersection of School Street and an Alliance Avenue Thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of School Street and Alliance Avenue Number two establish and always stop at the intersection of Arthur Avenue and day Avenue thus repealing the existing traffic control on Arthur Avenue stopping for day Avenue and
 Number three establishing an always stop at 2nd Avenue and st. Louis Avenue Thus repealing the existing traffic control of st. Louis Avenue for stopping for 2nd Avenue number four establishing an always stop at the intersection of 2nd Avenue and Shaw Street thus repealing the existing traffic control of Shaw Street stopping for 2nd Avenue place those items up for passage Any alderman want him to go through those intersections one more time? Hmm. I
 All right, so we have five items before you is there any discussion on the five items before you? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Durkee Aye Logeman Aye Thunberg Aye Frost Aye Irvins Aye Thompson-Kelley Rose Aye Beach Kenonnas Aye Beck Aye McNeely
 Shirely. Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirely. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a committee approval of the vouchers in amount of $4,548,036.08.
 I have approval of the application for the federal grant funds for Head Start and Early Head Start for the period of April 1, 2019 through March 31, 2020. And I have the approval of the 2019 budget amendment to reflect a transfer of $1.3 million from the motor fuel tax fund to the general fund for the purposes of funding pothole patching and that $1.3 million in surplus revenues be restricted and used for future budget deficits. I place these up for passage.
 Thank you. We have three items before the council. Is there any discussion on the three items before the council alderman mcneely? Thank you Mr. Mayor I would appreciate i'm sure the community probably would appreciate Another final explanation before the vote on item number three another explanation, uh
 So we are facing as a city about an 82 million dollar cumulative deficit over the next seven years And one of the recommendations that the citizen led task force came up with in 2017 Was to pay for pothole patching out of our capital improvement plan as opposed to paying for it out of our general fund 1.3 million dollars
 can either be seen as infrastructure or on the other side, we also see it as police and firemen and women and other staff that are essential to our daily functions as a municipality. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Is there any, yeah. Yes, Alderman McNeely. Having the 1.3
 come out of MFT how will that affect monies for the streets for the various words so we passed a capital improvement plan this year as a body which was the second largest capital improvement plan in our city's history and in that capital improvement plan it was denoted that MFT would be used for piles
 uh so we were still able to uh perform at our staff did a tremendous job and was able to perform at a high level with the large capital improvement plan but uh and all i mean no matter how we slice it uh as we move forward there are things that we are going to have to give up or reduce to make sure that we are fiscally sustainable
 And so this is one of those options that the citizen led task force provided. We have used in the past and are recommending to use again so that we can continue to reduce this terrible ongoing projected deficit of the $82 million. Thank you. No problem. Any other discussions? Seeing none, we have three items before you. No more discussion.
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. Items 1, 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have officers' reports. Are there reports from aldermen?
 Alderman Rose. I just I have one Like actually two items. Um, I'll just do the one Goodwill of Northern, Illinois
 is a great organization every year around tax season they they actually go out into the community and and do taxes for uh city residents and i wanted to share um from a constituent of mine that at the 850 north church street building they will start tax preparation uh coming up in on january 28th and i know that's a little ways off but um they um are
 letting people know ahead of time so they can prep themselves and get their tax documents in and do it but it's my understanding that they will do taxes for anyone making under fifty four thousand dollars which
 is a good portion of our community. So if you're looking for free taxes, I know that can cost quite a bit sometimes, especially after the holidays, check out Goodwill. They do a tremendous job of doing taxes. They have trained experts. They have to be certified through the federal government. So if you get a chance, check into Goodwill Taxes Program. Thank you.
 alderman thompson kelly thank you your honor i have several comments i'd like to make this evening uh the first one is i want to thank the rockford park district for renaming the park after mr clarence hicks he was a wonderful person to work with with the park district
 I also want to thank the Salvation Army. Our neighborhood group, West Gateway Coalition, did a Battle of the Bells. And on the Battle of the Bells, we raised $259.52. So I want to thank the members of the West Gateway Coalition for their assistance in ringing the bell all day. I also want to announce that tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.,
 at Booker Washington Center, there will be the first Christmas with senior citizens. They're going to have food, games, and fellowship cards, dominoes, and the whole nine yards. Anyone that is interested in going, they can contact Booker or Clark Rees-Proser.
 closely at 1-815-962-9117. And again, that's tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 1005 North Court Street at Booker Washington Center. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you. Is there other officer reports?
 I'm awesome and Thompson Kelly. I'm sorry. I missed one. Keep them coming. Um, I'm this is not a good one. I would like to request a meeting with you and police chief. Um, I am getting a lot of calls even though, you know, I read the report of the crime stats and but I have individuals that listen to the gunplay and and see the activities on the streets that they don't keep in tune with reports that we get.
 and they're not aware of all the things that are taking place with the police department. So I think it's high time that the chief of police come up from behind the press conference and we come into the community and talk to the individuals in the community because it's desperately needed. Thank you. And do you want that meeting with just us two first and then a meeting out in the public? Yes, please. We'll make sure that that takes place. Thank you. Other officer reports? Yes.
 Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I was thinking this morning about the fact that
 We're in this Christmas season and the birth of Christ. And if my colleagues would allow, I'd like to just read that portion of scripture that's familiar to many of us and not imposed upon you, but thought I'd like to do that from the book of Luke in the New Testament, the second chapter from the 8th through the 14th verses. And I've chosen to use the Passion Translation of that portion. That night in a field near Bethlehem,
 There were shepherds watching over their flocks. And suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared in a radiant splendor before them, lighting up the field with the blazing glory of God. And the shepherds were terrified. But the angel reassured them, saying, Don't be afraid, for I have come to bring you good news, the most joyous news the world has ever heard. And it is for everyone everywhere.
 For today in Bethlehem a Rescuer was born for you. He is the Lord YAHWAH, the Messiah. You will recognize Him by this miracle sign. You'll find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth and lying in a feeding trough. And there was a vast number of glorious angels appeared in the vast armies of heaven, and they all praised God, saying,
 Glory to God in the highest realms of heaven, for there is peace and good hope given to the sons of man. Merry Christmas to my friends. Merry Christmas. Thanks. Other officers' reports.
 Alderman Shirely. Thank you, your honor. I just want to thank the Rockford Fire Department and other departments that were involved in a fire over this weekend. And my reward on Creekview Road. I'm happy to say there was no loss of life in the efforts of all involved. I heard there was one firefighter that might have been hurt, so hopefully he recovers soon. And again, I wanted to thank the fire department. On another note, your honor.
 Over the weekend my daughter was viciously attacked by two pit bulls. And as she is healing, I wanted to send a message out to anyone that has dogs. Please keep them restrained when others are around. This was a crazy accident that happened, but as an alderman I do get calls about vicious dogs.
 several times throughout the four years, six years that I've been here. And we try to tell our constituents that, you know, we do have ordinances in place. There's things that we can do. But, you know, the simple thing people can do is when someone is around
 Your animals, please keep them confined and I ask for everyone for prayers for my daughter It is emotional for me, but as a community we must try to Do the right things when other people are around in your home your business. Thank you It's alderman Shirely and I sure hope Claudia is doing okay. Also, I would mention I think I I
 It was either Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, or it was Thursday, Friday and Saturday that we had fires. And just the amount of work that our fire department has been doing recently has been amazing. But also...
 They've done a really wonderful job, and you're right, I think a fireman was injured on Saturday. And to date, if anyone's counting as aldermen, we have had about 28 vacant property fires. It's just an enormous number, and last year we were just over the 28 number, so we're right on track for last year.
 Any other officers, Alderman Thompson-Keller? Thank you for that comment, Your Honor. Could we possibly, on our fifth Monday, have our commercial and residential buildings, the fires, the vacant buildings on the agenda so we can discuss them and take some type of an approach or action for them? Because right now they're pounding.
 Adding up in our wards and in this community. So that is one thing that that we should need to be discussing great point so
 I don't believe it's on your agenda, but it was read in that we are doing a vacant property registry That would be coming forward but to your point we should have further dialogue and I think in loose math We're spending about a million dollars this year just responding and demolishing vacant properties. So it's certainly needed. I
 uh any other officers reports alderman thank you let me speak twice i'd like to just mention um i talked to john beck alderman beck before the meeting um i noticed on sunday night for the festival of lights which incidentally is probably one of the nicest displays i've seen it's about 15 cars a minute was passing through that display to the entry point and that went on for several hours
 So thousands of our people from around this area and out of town are coming through that. What a wonderful thing for Rockford. And if you haven't been down to Nicholas Conservatory, I mean, is there anything finer than that anywhere?
 and i've traveled quite a bit around this country just absolutely beautiful inside and outside and to see the families young and old out there is just a wonderful thing whoever's responsible for it all your goodness sakes in rockford illinois is wonderful uh thank you very very much thank you alderman thunberg since alderman hervey isn't here tonight
 and joe uh thank you for bringing that to our attention that uh is very we're heartfelt on that um frank that is uh i appreciate what the park district is doing in the third ward that's uh i just wanted to mention that as well um one of one of the things that i would like to touch on with uh ann thompson kelly alderman thompson kelly uh brought up you know
 Not along those lines, but it reminded me of a situation that it has been brought to my attention by numerous constituents. Some individuals that look on these third party crime data websites, and you will see sometimes, I think this is for other aldermen to know this, but as well as the tens of thousands of Rockfordians that are watching tonight,
 that when you look at when you look at those though though many times will list a on there an address and it'll say gun discharge or weapons violation and then I will get an email from a constituent that sees that and says hey what's what's going on on on this street
 If someone calls in, and this is to give you an idea of what it may be, in many cases that I've found out is that when someone calls in and says they heard a gunshot or gunshots, that may be the case. There's other cases where it's simply fireworks, alderman frost, muffler backfiring. So...
 It is, there are other legitimate reasons why these, why these people are calling in, but it's not gunshots. But, and then the police have gone out, looked around, didn't find anything, but they have to list it as a weapons violation or a gun discharge, a weapons discharge.
 and list it at the address. Now, I don't know how it's listed or who's listing it, but it's something with 911 and some of the third party, how they're getting it on there. But it ends up going back to, many times, the address of the individual who called it in. And they're just calling in saying, hey, I heard gunshots.
 And so, you know, it concerns me a little bit because if people are looking to move into a neighborhood and, you know, these things are popping up when really they may not even be the case.
 But just letting you know that if the police are out there, it's happened to me many times, they've said we didn't see anything, and really there was only one call that came in. And so it most likely was Alderman Frost's car or somebody lighting off fireworks. But unfortunately, there it is listed on a third-party crime site as a weapons violation. Because if somebody did in fact fire a gun, that's illegal.
 So they do have to list it as a weapons violation, what was told to me. So I just wanted to add that going in. Alderman, or sorry, Alderman Tunberg, I didn't mean to cut you off. No, no. Did I? Mayor, you're fine. No, done.
 Alderman McNeely, did you have your hand raised? I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Listening to my colleagues talk about the gunfire, I wonder if we could get a report from the police department, given that we have the equipment out there for the gunfire, the shots. Shotspotter, thanks. What type of report would you like? How many, where they're at? Are they comparing to what the aldermen are turning in or what the residents are turning in?
 In those zones, I'm just trying to decipher because gunshot detection software is in certain zones. Right. Okay. You can only compare it where it's at, so. Yeah. So, Chief Pan, can you make sure that all aldermen get that information? Thank you. Okay. No, thank you. I'm sorry. Alderman Beach. Just a follow-up. I had asked my alderman Rose here, but on that shot detection equipment, does that distinguish between a firecracker? It does. And a shot. It does.
 We could narrow that down. Oh, yeah. Yes. It'll distinguish. So what happens is a shot will be fired if it's in one of the zones that we have our gunshot detection. That will send a signal to the firm in California that's monitoring that area for us, and that firm in California will listen to it.
 confirm that it was a gunshot, and then send a signal back to our police department, and usually within 20 feet, and they'll locate where that shot was fired within 20 feet. And this all happens in a matter of about 30 to 60 seconds. Thank you.
 Alderman Rose just to add to that. It's my understanding. It's so accurate that it can distinguish between a long gun and a handgun. So That's my understanding of it. You are accurate any further discussion. Thank you moving on We have unfinished business. We have no items under planning and development or finance and personnel But we do have one item under code and regulation alderman Shirely. Thank your honor. I
 I do. It is true. I only have one item Unfinished business committee reports laid over the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances Chapter 11 human rights the legal director shall prepare the appropriate order. Please set up for passage your honor Thank you. Is there any we have one item before you under code and regulations? Is there any discussion for that one item seeing no discussion or alderman to Merck? Oh
 I have a question on it is excuse me as I go down here section 11 one I'm going through the paragraph yes this would go towards attorney Myers on this citizenship status does that could you elaborate question as to what you mean
 What are you asking me to? Okay, so in the public policy, does this allow Rockford to hire illegal immigrants? No, I think if you go below that section, it specifically says that it will not require any employer, including the city of Rockford, from hiring anybody who is not authorized to be employed under the state of Illinois law or under the federal law.
 Okay. Any other further questions? Alderman Thompson-Kelley. I just want to.
 I'd when I first read this I had a lot of questions and I want to thank you your honor and also Todd and your staff the legal department for addressing my concerns in regards to this and Making changes so that it does benefit the community I have since decided you know I you know you look at it either glass half full or it's half empty and I think in this case the glass is half full because
 It's something where we have to start somewhere, and we have to make accomplishments, and we have to start in doing what's right for this community. So I will be supporting it this evening. Thank you. Thank you. Next, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just wanted to again... Microphone. Got it. Oh, will you pull down your microphone? Oh, you actually want to hear what I have to say? Well, it will depend. I can mute you if I don't, but...
 I actually wanted to just sort of rehash some of the problems I have with this ordinance. And they stem more from a philosophical approach to us as a culture rather than actually the tenets of a law. And I want to also state again that I find nobility in purpose of this. Any culture, any...
 Any group of individuals that want us to gather and coexist and live in harmony and community is incredibly important. I'm still a little disturbed by a comment on the council floor that basically said opposition to this equates to racism and bigotry.
 I'm concerned about that because I'm afraid that sometimes that sentiment is not isolated, and perhaps that may find its way onto this committee such that if this committee comes up with certain policy recommendations, if they are rejected, you know, would then those who do not agree with the committee, would they get labeled? You know, I'm glad Reverend Board was here. I really don't.
 I think that government is the answer to what's happening in our community and across the country. This ordinance and this policy starts with a list of things that divides people.
 a list of all kinds of differences, which are good, but for once, when we approach a solution, can't we start something? You know, I understand that other communities are doing things like that. And in a lot of ways, when I see that, I don't necessarily jump on board, but I take a step backwards and try to think, you know,
 what really is going on? You know, if we have, we do have racism problems. We do have bigotry. We have people who are prejudicial and judgmental. And it cuts across all elements of who you are. And the answer to that is not more government. The government, in many ways, created the problem to begin with.
 The answer is actually a new tactic. You know, what about we start a policy that basically says, let's emphasize our commonalities. People of culture, people of different countries, people of different backgrounds are far more alike than different. They have far more goals and aspirations than...
 That are far more in common than are different Why don't we start with the starting point of what makes us common the goals and aspirations the dreams that we all have? Start a process start something that moves in that direction. I find it ironic that a a
 That this committee has to be established to to somehow create another touch point with the City Council We're in fact that touch point. We do represent the community. We should be engaging and understanding What is going on if we don't?
 then we alter our committee process or something to invite these groups in, whether they be Transform Rockford, housing people with different problems. The idea is to open up government, not to create another government committee. And I just find that terribly ironic that we create another government committee to advise a government body. The issue before us, if we are wanting to attack
 problems within our community are not necessarily legal questions they're moral questions or ethical questions and so the question becomes with how do we develop an ethical and moral community if there is racism and bigotry that's not illegal that's immoral okay and that's where we need to begin and Kenneth board who was here I have great respect for him I'm a Christ follower I'm
 I do a lousy job at it, okay? I try my best, but I do that. But we, certain elements of government, for instance, have kicked out Christianity. Can you imagine a community of people and individuals that basically said, if you don't have a coat, if you see a man without a coat, you give him yours. If you see someone hungry, feed them.
 And that ethic and that virtue and that sense of community has disappeared from discourse. And instead we replace it with ordinance and law. And government doesn't change the heart of people, it only controls them as best they can. And so from a philosophical point of view, there needs to be a different starting point. There needs to be an emphasis on commonality and then
 Do something. I don't know what that is I'm not wise enough but seek some kind of mechanism or some kind of if it's another Transform rapper that involves our faith community, but somehow Find that influence on culture that will actually change the hearts of people rather than Legalize or or their behavior. I think it's horribly ineffective
 And I really don't. And there's some matters of the policy that it's not an advisory board. It's not. When we go back and you start leading, and I'm sorry, I disagree. It's a mischaracterization of it. When you start reading the sections under hearings, when you start reading under Roman numeral F, that if a committee determines that a preponderance of evidence is
 sustains the prior determination. This committee is acting like, in a sense, a judge, as an arbitrator. And they do have a function. So it's not entirely advisory. Again, I'm still troubled that the city exempts itself. I don't care that the city has ordinances and they have contracts. If you are going to
 Commit small business to this and haul small business owners or anybody else that files a complaint There's even a clause in here that says if someone believes an event is going to happen I don't know how you put clairvoyance into a statute but I the committee actually functions to in a sense investigate and adjudicate in some of these sections and
 But the city itself, if you're going to put the onus on the citizenry and small business, you can't exempt yourself from this. And I don't care what kind of rules you have. If this advisory committee finds out that something's going on in our city council,
 In the fire department, which has consistently been brought up or different other things Then then the city needs to be under the watchful eye of this this advisory board The other thing is the ordinance is not written properly It needs to be written because the committee is given like three different names in here Community Relations Committee Human Activities Committee. There's there's a number of different names. So the ordinance itself needs to be rewritten but
 I get the intent, I admire the intent, and the funny thing is, I agree with the end point.
 I really do. I just disagree with how we're getting there. And I'm really tired of every time there is a problem with ethical behavior and virtue and a lack of it in our culture, a lack of civil discourse, we turn to some government agency instead of turning to those agencies and those core values like churches and other organizations that deliver the moral sense of our culture. We've discarded them, we refuse to utilize them, instead we
 Institute commissions
 And I'm sorry, it hasn't worked historically. I don't think it'll work here. And I think if you're a small business owner and you start reading some of the elements of this, I'm not so sure that you aren't a little bit nervous in what this committee can do. So I'm really sorry, but I guess I talked too long. But, you know, I added up all of Thunberg and Herbie's minutes. I figured I got to speak this long. You still may have taken the cake.
 Just in response to some of those, I mean, I know there's a number of folks have had concerns about committee members. I just want to reiterate to those watching at home and those before me today that all committee members must be approved by you, the city council. The only way I would vote on those committee members is if there is a tie. And I would be also asking all of you to provide me names to recommend to you.
 The second, I know we've went over, I think, almost every point you've mentioned previously, but you've mentioned that government is not the answer. I couldn't agree more with you.
 That's why we are not having this made up of bureaucrats. We're not having this made up of people like you and me or city staff members. We are having this made up of the diverse body of citizens that make up our community. So we are turning to the community and saying, we're done with all this government. We want to hear directly from you on certain issues.
 take in that advice and weigh that advice among a whole host of other things as we do throughout our days, but providing a voice to all segments of our community. And the third thing is I agree wholeheartedly with you about you have to start a lot of conversations with commonalities.
 I have found myself, I can't speak for other people, but I have found myself to become more open to diverse thoughts and folks who are different than me by sitting down and meeting with them.
 And I think all we as a government are doing is providing a table, a table setting, if you will, or a format to allow citizens to come to a table and discuss what some days could be very difficult issues and weighty issues. And hopefully through that process, will they always agree? No. Will we always agree with them? No. But I think through that process.
 My hope is that we will gain a deeper appreciation for the diversities that we have and be able to begin to celebrate the diversities That make rock for the place. It is today Alderman Rose, so I just wanted to make a few statements first off, I think this commission addresses two real big issues in our in our
 our community two of them that have been missing for some time is the way that we do housing in our region and in our city and also the way that we do contracts with our contractors and
 When we look at poverty in our region, the two main factors that play into poverty is how much money I'm making and how much money I'm spending on my house or my rental property. And so I think this is something that is long overdue. It's something that addresses those two issues and
 You know, this isn't the board, you know, sometimes people talk about government is here to protect us or government's here to cast us a safety net. I really think this commission is about removing barriers. And I think that that's something that it's going to continue to do. And so that's why I'm in support of it. I think it's one of those that.
 It's gonna we got a lot at stake here and and removing barriers is that big issue? I think that it takes on. Thank you further their discussion I just want to again Disagree kindly with the notion that it's just an advisory committee sects the section 1123 and
 subparagraph B and and the notations there as well as subsection C under hearings and subsection 1124 and 1125 actually talk about an investigatory role
 and among other things and then some troubling words on section 1126 whenever the legal director has reasonable case to believe any person or persons engaged in a pattern of resistance to the full enjoyment of any of the rights any of the rights granted by this chapter I have no idea what that means what the rights are that this chapter grants so I do at least some of the
 Again, I disagree with a philosophy. I mean the the mechanism but this is not when you read the ordinances when you read What is written it is not? Advisory at all. It does have like a almost an arbitrator type is Position it hears evidence. It takes testimony under oath. That's that is not advisory. I
 Director Meyer. So that language is actually coming from the current, this is the section of the ordinance dealing with the equal opportunity and the contracting. If there was an issue with the contractor who's not in compliance with our rules and regs, that right now what happened is it would go in front of the equal opportunity committee.
 uh the equal opportunity committee would have a hearing would issue an advisory opinion to the council that's exactly what the the hearing uh the um community relations commission would do it would step in that role there would be a hearing
 They would issue an opinion, that opinion would be advisory opinion. It would then go to the committee and council, much like the LTAP does or the ZBA does, with the opportunity based on an amendment from an alderman to have additional hearing and testimony and argument if that was the case. So this is very similar to the current ordinance. And it is actually advisory, I believe it even says in there that it would be issued advisory opinion.
 In terms of the investigatory role, the section that was cited in enforcement, it actually explicitly states that the investigations of any complaints filed would come through the Department of Law and not through the commission itself. Department of Law, after doing an investigation, if there was a complaint, would report its findings, consult with the commission, but they would have no role in issuing any complaints.
 fining or issuing any sanctions if that were the case. And then the last section that was brought up is very similar, if not verbatim, from I believe from the current language and the current ordinance. That is sort of, I guess we're going to call it catch-all. If we have a problem that is widespread, the legal department would have the ability to take the case out of
 the code process and go file a complaint for an injunction type action in circuit court to stop widespread uh discrimination um you know those i will reiterate that most of the the this act or this ordinance is is already exists including the rights and the procedures uh the big change is is really merely creating the advisory board uh in in place of the two existing commissions
 Director Meyer does a current housing board fair housing board that we have currently does that have subpoena powers and does this? current
 Potentially new board have subpoena powers So the current Fair Housing Board would had does have subpoena powers and it does have the issue There's the ability to direct discovery The call witnesses issue sanctions for non-compliance the current The current if we receive a complaint know the board itself would not have subpoena power The way that it does now. Thank you further discussion alderman McNeely. I
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I was in here for the meeting where the discussion was held, but I am not in support of this for a number of reasons, including some of the reasons that Alderman Durkee has stated. My main concern is that I know that we have a real housing
 problem here in the city and i know that we have a real problem with equal employment in the city and having this commission does not strengthen those two things and i believe that those are two things that should be strengthened they should have been strengthened years ago and to me this commission only reduces
 the role that has been assigned in the past by various administrations for those two issues. And I think that we should move forward to strengthen housing and equal employment. I have a concern regarding,
 different commissions coming up with with suggestions for this council and when it's delivered to us it's delivered to us as as a lot of times not always but a lot of times the different Commission's provide us with what information that is taken as fact without consideration of what
 the aldermen themselves may have encountered with their constituency. So I have a problem with this commission, and I've researched different cities that have this. I know it's a going trend throughout the country. However,
 My concern, again, I repeat, is for equal employment and fair housing. And this commission is not going to do this unless we hire...
 or unless they volunteer and be a part of this commission that are attorneys that have that background and know how to look and observe and bring forward information that can be beneficial to us as council members. And I agree with Minister Board that Alderman do not have the time to do all the research
 make all the calls or go to various meetings. However, we still have an obligation. I would hate for us to turn into something that's similar to what happened in Michigan where the governor is able to or did renounce the elected official's position and put in place a city manager
 I'm not sure that was the term that they used, but basically that was it, and overseeing the duties of the elected alderman and mayor. And sometimes commissions to taxpayers as well as to politicians can appear to be that way. And sometimes I think that some commissions actually
 foresee themselves in that manner. So, again, there are a number of reasons why I'm not supporting that, but certainly my main two reasons I've stated. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Alderman Frost. Thank you. Your Honor, I know that I've discussed this with you before, and I've discussed it many times with you,
 Mr. Meyer, Mr. Meyer, thank you for providing me with all the information you did. He did a yeoman's work looking at other ordinances around the state of Illinois that have gone forward with an ordinance like this, but not exactly the same as ours. And I guess, and I don't, I'm not putting any responsibility on this administration or the previous administration, but we really have two broken rules.
 We have the Fair Housing Board and the EEOC Board. And it seems like instead of fixing each board, which some of that is incorporated into this section that already exists as you've indicated, we're making a hybrid or a new one. And it's like, well, North Main Street is torn up and the Auburn Street Bridge is buckling, so instead of fixing those, how about we talk about Perryville?
 And I just don't see what's the good in coming out of that. And frankly, in listening to everyone speak on this, and I think everyone's speaking from their hearts and there's no agendas going forward. But I truly agree with everyone's opinions, and I don't think anyone's taking sides and voting for or against it.
 alderman durkee hit many points on the head and and one of the one the issues that i have with it is it seems to go so far beyond the scope of fair housing eeoc and disabilities mentioned these are all valid things and there are several state federal and local ordinances frankly that are already on the books including we have our own set of ordinances around the books involving the fair housing board that um that
 I guess just aren't either aren't effective aren't being enforced or aren't being followed by the community and so I don't have a problem with Enforcing the ordinances we have if they make sense, but what I see here is adding into those ordinances that exist other things that do allow for an advising consulting with the mayor and City Council and
 providing educational programs on community relation issues or practices. Later on it says about the ability to hold hearings, to take testimony, to have mediation if necessary. I just don't know what the agenda is of community members of getting involved to do that. And I frankly don't think that's their purpose or their scope. Those are items that if there's a violation in the city of Rockford,
 It's called upon under our due diligence and duties and enforcement to have our legal director and the seventh floor go after, prosecute, enforce the law. I don't think that in my mind I need 11 people off the street with all due respect. At one point we were all off the street, but in this case these are quasi legal in nature. To have hearings, to hold testimony.
 I just think it's going far beyond the scope of what really was created for the purposes of the Fair Housing Board, the dealing with people being discriminated with in their housing, with how they're being discriminated allegedly by a landlord, EEOC violations, construction violations. All those matters are important.
 are true and if they're happening, they should be enforced. The violators of those ordinances and those laws that are already on the books should be prosecuted. They should be fined or whatever the law allows them. But this creates somewhat of a new law, which I just believe gives this commission power to kind of just go on a fact finding.
 I shouldn't say haunt, but a fact-finding mission to cover a whole slurry of different ideas across the board. And so for that reason, I'm voting no. Just in response to that, I guess I would just say that I think the purpose of us combining the two is a little bit different than a road project. I would say it's more about...
 We're trying to move away from the enforcement aspect as much as possible and move more towards engagement. And I think if you read the Fair Housing Board's description as well as the Equal Opportunity Board's, I think you see that language shift in that we are truly simply trying to get folks around the table to have that dialogue. But I think you are absolutely correct that everyone's been respectful in this dialogue. So thank you all.
 Burke, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Logerman. Tunberg. No. Frost. No. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Rose. Say aye. Beach. No. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. No. Chiarelli.
 Seven ayes five noes Next up we have appointments that are laid over they remain laid over Also, just a reminder if you need any of their contact information prior to you voting on them We can provide you their contact information so that you can communicate with them next up we have motions and resolutions and we have code and regulation committee alderman Shirely Thank You Your Honor and
 The motions and resolutions, the first is a request from the Convention of Jehovah Witnesses
 for a parking fee waiver for an additional convention weekend, August 16th through the 18th, 2019. And the second is a pre-annexation of 3700 Brookview Road, city-owned property. The city of Rockford, owner of the subject property, has requested pre-annexation to the city of Rockford. A pre-annexation agreement has been submitted and the city of Rockford has been designated as its agent for the purpose of executing a petition for annexation upon the property becoming contiguous to the city.
 I place those up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Is there any discussion about the items that are before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Rose. Aye. Veach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Next up, we have finance and personnel.
 Alderman back. Thank you your honor several items. So please bear with me First is the award of bid for a drainage area for turf mowing and restoration to JJ Paris for an average annual cost five years of one hundred and fifteen thousand dollars a
 Next, we have an award of bid for tire collection and recycling service, the Green Road Tire Recycling, for an estimated cost of $50,000 total. Contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions. Next is the award of bid for collection and packaging of household hazardous waste to Clean Harbors Environmental Services.
 for year one, $130,134.81, year two, $134,091.81, year three, $138,167.51, year four, $142,365.50, and year five, $146,689.44.
 Closure fee, if applicable, is $9,355.81. Contract duration is two years with three one-year extensions. Next is the award of bid for citywide street detector loop replacement. 2018 at William Charles Electric in the amount of $46,380. Contract duration is completion in 2019.
 Next is the award of contract replacement equipment for the water division to west side tractor sales in the amount of 177 thousand eight hundred forty three dollars and fifty nine cents for the purchase of one John Deere Backhoe loader one John Deere excavator and one heavy-duty trailer next to the award of non-competitive bid for chemical feed equipment supplies and service and
 to smith ecological systems for an estimated contract value of 125 000 contract duration is one year next we have an award of rfp for utility bill printing to level one llc in the amount of three hundred eighty thousand dollars contract duration is three years with two one-year renewal options
 Next, we have a change order for equipment for new ambulances to Stryker Medical in the amount of $44,958 for two power load COTs.
 Next, we have the change order for a Marathon Health Contract. The Human Resource Department requests an adjustment to the Marathon Health Contract from $927,012 to $969,210 for an additional cost of $42,198. The adjustment reflects recommended staffing changes. And the final is rejection of bid for receive for automotive parts and supplies.
 Staff is recommending rejection of the bid and authorized central services manager to solicit new bids. I place these items at the passage. Excellent. So we have 10 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 10 items? Alderman Thompson-Kelly? Yes, Your Honor. I've looked at item 1, 2, and 3.
 I just have a problem with approving something for four years additional years after the one year, not knowing if the price is going to change, the conditions are going to change, and in four years, some of us won't be here.
 I do have a problem having a four-year extension on any contract. I think that staff should come back, at least present it to city council for approval each year. I understand, after speaking with staff, that some of the bids are very difficult.
 to get and it's very difficult to go out to bid i'm not saying go out to bid i'm saying bring the information back to city council for approval if there's any changes okay so with your permission uh director hagerty coming back before council would that affect any of the bids before us
 the of the items one two and three on the agenda the number three the initial contract duration is two years not one year the contracts that are structured with annual extensions that I don't foresee an issue with that but with the household hazardous waste contract because there is
 and if we were to have changed vendors there would be some mobilization hiring set up expenses associated with that contract we do that's one of the reasons for the longer term and the reason why we have a two-year initial term at at extension time we could certainly bring that back to City Council but the initial two-year term if we were to deviate from that that would affect price
 No, I'm not mentioning the initial. I'm talking about the additional extensions extensions on them Would you like to make a motion that any additional extension of their terms come back before? Council for items one two and three. Yes, but I don't want to put undue burden on staff For it, but I just the information to should come back for due to the full City Council just for informational purposes only. I
 Oh, so just so then we and then Director Sackman, did you have your I? were just going to comment that on item 1 the slope mowing if there were an Amendment an amendment offered to reduce the full term of that contract to three years that would not be impactful On our operation or on the bidding process to shorten that Thank You director Sackman. I think we'll have that coming out and
 alderman thompson kelly did you have it i think alderman okay uh alderman frost thank you and with respect to number one that's exactly what mr stockman said like i would i would propose we make a a motion on that specific one number one only to uh have the whole contract uh
 Be for the one year duration With instead of four additional one-year extensions with two one-year extensions will be a three-year contract to me We can re-examine that after that time Do I need a roll call We have a motion in a second for item one being amended all those in favor say aye those opposed
 Item passes. I just want to be clear, though, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, we're doing what you want. So you're saying you're directing staff that for each one of these renewals, 1, 2, and 3, that we will make sure that we come back for information only. Okay. Any further discussion on the 10 items before you? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye.
 Moogerman? Aye. Toonberg? Frost? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. Those items passed. Next up we have Planning and Development Alderman Rose. We have two items, an ordinance approving the 2019 Annual Action Plan Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnership,
 emergency solution grant program and item number two in ordinance approving the development agreement for Swedish American Hospital at 1401 East State Street. Thank you Alderman Rose. We have two items before you Is there any discussion on those two items that are before you saying no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? Durkee Bogeman Toomber frost Irvin's Thompson Kelly Rose Beach Quinones Beck
 McNeely? Chiarelli? 12 ayes on 1. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Thank you. Both of those items passed. Next up we have Alderman Chiarelli, Code and Regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. We've got 5 items.
 First is an ordinance establishing a two-hour parking restriction on the west side of 7th Street from Charles Street to 1st Avenue, thus repealing the existing 30-minute parking restriction. Number two is an ordinance establishing traffic control at the intersection of Orange Street and Broadway. Three is an ordinance establishing angle parking on Charles Street from 125 feet south of Terrace Avenue, or center Terrace, excuse me, to the end of Charles Street north of Broadway. Four.
 Number four is an ordinance establishing a parking restriction of no parking any time on the south side of 4th Avenue 75 feet east of 7th Street to 140 feet east of 7th Street Number five is an ordinance approving the amendments that the city of Rockford code of ordinances chapter 11 human rights place those four ordinances Up for passage your honor. Thank you. We have five five items before us, correct? I guess my sugar's a little low
 So we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on the five items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. One, two, three, four. Frost. No. Urbans. Yes. Thunberg. I'm sorry. Thompson-Kelly. I made a mistake. Sorry. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Your Honor. Aye.
 but you spoke so passionately for it so we will change that vote what's that vote total then one two three four twelve eyes item number five seven eyes five nose i'll vote aye okay next up uh although all those items pass right
 next up we have uh finance and personnel alderman beck thank you your honor i have an ordinance approving an application for federal grant funds for head start and early head start services for the period of april 1 2019 through march 31 2020
 And then I have an ordinance approving the 2019 budget amendment to reflect the transfer of $1.3 million from the motor field tax fund to the general fund for the purpose of funding pothole patching that the $1.3 million in surplus revenues be restricted and used for future budget deficits. Place those up for passage. Thank you. So we have two items before you right now. Are there any discussion on the two items before us? Nope. Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Okay.
 Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 ayes. All those pass. Next Alderman Chiarelli, it looks like you have something to share with us. Yes, I have a memo from Nicholas Meyer, our legal director. He sits over there. Follow, let's see.
 I move to convene and to close session in order to discuss, number one, pending litigation matters. Number two, Alderman Thunberg's jacket. No, I'm just kidding. Number two, labor negotiation matters. Excellent. So we have a motion. Is there a second? I'll take that from you, Joe. No second. Roll. Second. All those in favor, say aye. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? No. We'll break for closed session.