City Council meeting clerk. Would you please call the roll? Yes, Reedy Toomer frost Herbie Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirely 12 present excellent So we have a quorum is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on December 2nd 2019?
 We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have a presentation for the year-end presentation for Marathon Health. How are you? Good, good to see you. Mr. Brown, is he going to open it up for us? I think so. That's by your leave, Mayor. That would be enjoyable. Thank you.
 My name is Ryan Bronze and I work for Rockford Consulting and we represent you on matters related to the employee benefit plan such as this clinic. And I won't take too much time because I don't want to steal any thunder from the folks from the clinic here tonight, but I just wanted to tell you a little bit of the history very quickly.
 We set out to engage in an employee onsite clinic like this for a couple of reasons, not the least of which is that one, we wanted to stem the cost of healthcare best we could and we realized that just doing a smoking cessation plan or doing your basic health risk assessment or things like that, we needed to do more.
 We're also confronted with the fact that many primary care physicians are retiring or getting out of the business or becoming owned by the hospital systems and we knew that we wanted to be able to deliver the best possible care to the employees of the city and that led us down this road
 of taking a look at what we could do on site. And you also had, I have to tell you, we couldn't have been successful at this without your help and without your labor groups as well. Particularly, I want to thank Alderman Beach, who was a very staunch,
 encourager of looking at something like this. Alderman Beach has asked us for many years to try and look at an on-site pharmacy, which we continue to do. We have brought a dispensary on-site into the clinic, and you'll hear a little bit about that tonight. It's not quite like having a Walgreens on-site, but we're still looking at that. I want to clarify what type of dispensary these days. That's right. That's a great point. Will we be doing medical marijuana? No.
 No, no, not at all. Okay. That's good news to our clinicians. I don't want Jeff Kolke, you know, writing tomorrow that city opened a pot clinic. This would be generic drugs. If you have diabetes, perhaps metformin, things of this nature. But that's been a tremendous convenience for people because compliance is a big issue, and there are a lot of people who get first diagnosed with something in our clinic, and if our clinician can hand them some medication right away, it's actually a big deal.
 uh... and also i think all the men frost to who was also uh... important participant the very beginning because we did a lot of site surveys we flew around the country and and with these alderman until we went took a look at clinics across the country to see what other municipalities and other employers we're doing right some of the things that they were doing wrong and we set out a very public process and had a very open bid process and all of the best in class participated
 Our hospitals participated. And it was really a very interesting process for all involved. And that led us really to the selection of Marathon Health and why they're here today. It's actually, I should say, been a very good thing for our community too. Because it's driven our hospital providers and our other healthcare providers to engage the employer community
 we're really the demand side of this right so the employers are paying these very large bills and we have a very important interest in keeping our employees healthy happy productive as well so it's really we really push that envelope here in our community as far as our health care infrastructure looking to our employer community and i think we've had a very positive effect there as well you're going to also hear that the clinic itself after five years has by all accounts really been successful you hear a little bit about that tonight as far as our
 our financial performance, our satisfaction performance, and some of the other metrics. Of course, I'm here to answer any of the questions that you may have, but at this point, I'd like to turn it to Kim. Did you want to say a few words from the HR standpoint?
 And by the way, I would be remiss since I opened by thanking two aldermen and I want to also thank the mayor for his support because he was very actively involved as an alderman as well and continues to support. As you know, the mayor is very interested in the social determinants of health and a lot of what happens at the clinic is in that umbrella and we couldn't do it without your support either, Mayor. And also, I would also be remiss if I didn't tell you that we can't do this without a really educated and proactive HR group.
 And Director Hunter is leading that group and she's been influential in keeping this on track because it's easy for these things to kind of go off the rails and not to continue to perform as well. So you've got a good team looking after it. I want to now give it to Lauren from Marathon and I'll let you introduce yourself, Lauren.
 I don't want to be in the way of the screen here, so if you don't mind, I guess I'll just kind of sit here. But so welcome. Nice to meet everybody. I am Lauren May. I am the account manager. Sorry, from Marathon Health. And we manage the city of Rockford Wellness Center. So.
 Today, we're going to look at a number of things. We're going to look at the five-year executive summary. We'll take a look at our volume and engagement. We'll look at risk identification and mitigation, claims trend analysis, satisfaction survey, and then really our 2020 next steps.
 So before we get into the details, I want to make sure that I relate to you really what Marathon Health's mission is and how we really look at healthcare. So what we do is we look at healthcare from a population health management standpoint, which means that we look at all the data that we have coming in from our biometric screenings, our health risk assessments.
 and just the claims data that comes in and the information that comes in through the provider-patient relationship and really understand to identify what those broader risks are in the population. And then we take that information and we look to mitigate that risk. So we develop strategies and programs to understand what those big risks are in the population and how we can really affect.
 those. So we do that through our programming and we also do that through just patient contact and communication and building those relationships. So once we're able to build that relationship with the patient, gain their trust, we can really make change utilization happen and that's really empowering the patient to better their health. And through that change utilization is where we really capture those cost savings.
 So that's really what we're trying to do in terms of our patient relationships and putting forth our mission. So quick executive summary here for year five. We had a great year five. We're very excited to say the actual claims paid are 17.5 million below projections in aggregate over the five years with an ROI of 3.9.
 We also hit 64% employee engagement in year five, which is a 9% increase over year four. We exceeded 12 out of 12 high risk and chronic condition metrics.
 We looked at employees who had come in with coaching and had coaching visits with us versus employees who have not visited the center. And we are looking at those claims and we identified that there is a $3,000 per member per year savings for folks who were engaged in coaching with us over those who weren't.
 And then we had 92% patient satisfaction, which is above 90% four years running, so we're really excited about that as well.
 So a quick look at our team. This is our wonderful wellness team. So from left to right, we have Marisol, Rose, and Carly. These are our medical assistants. They manage really running the center. They do all of our, a lot of the lab work in the center, and they also make sure that the center is at optimal performance.
 scheduling, just managing patients. And then to the right of that is Anthony Sikora. He's our family nurse practitioner. And we're super excited to have Dr. Dave Bulger join us in January 2020. So he'll be joining the team, I think it's actually January 20th is his first day. So we're excited to have a full team to, you know, help patients of Rockford succeed.
 So engagement. So engagement is defined as a patient who's come in within the last 18 months and worked with a provider from an acute care, which is sick care or coaching perspective. So this is basically the percent of the population that has come through our doors.
 So, when we look at this across the board, we look at employees, spouses, and children. The blue is coaching, and the green there is acute care. The red bars are our traditional book of business. And so, we've achieved or surpassed our book of business for overall engagement for all three groups, which is great to see. We've had that 9% increase in employee engagement, specifically in the acute bucket from last
 and we have surpassed the benchmark for coaching for children. The thing that we are looking at really targeting and kind of focusing on for next year is to increase the coaching for both employees and spouses
 And really one of the things is that coaching is really where we make the most strides from a health outcome standpoint, which also turns into savings. So when we look at the claims in a couple different slides, you'll see that that coaching is a really important thing for us, and that's what we're really working on improving for next year.
 So this is another way to look at kind of center engagement. This is the volume. So engagement is really the amount of people who are interacting with us, whereas volume is the actual care that's given in center. So it's hard to see here, but there is gray in the background there. And that is associated with our lab volume. The green is our acute volume, and the blue is coaching.
 So when we look at year one through five, there's tough to see, but there's a lot more variability in year one through four than we've had in year five. And a lot of that is because of the work we've done with the different departments to
 really kind of roll out our occupational health throughout the year instead of having really discrete times where that comes in. So we've done a lot of work with those different departments to kind of optimize when we have those things coming in the door. So we're not looking at putting it all really in like January and February and December when we have our primary high rates for sick visits.
 But overall, we've had a really large increase in lab volume. We had a 21% increase over last year, and that is influenced by some of the increase in occupational health that we've done. Our acute care has stayed pretty same from a volume standpoint as last year. There's not a big difference there. Our coaching has declined, which is also just, you know, with the eligibility, or I'm sorry, engagement aligned with that piece. So that's really our focus, again, to kind of see what we can do from an engagement standpoint to get the coaching.
 So this slide looks at screening and risk identification. So this goes back a little bit to the data that we can take in and how we can actually
 promote and bring our strategy together. So the more screening information and data that we have, the more we understand the layout of the population and what those high risks are. So we have 92% of your employees that are screened, which is fantastic, honestly. And I think this is encouraged from the Path to Wellness incentive that is put out by the city. So you're well over our book of...
 business benchmark, which is that little red line there. Spouses were a little bit below our book of business benchmark and it, you know, one thing to note here is that the path to wellness incentive is only employees, so it could be something interesting to think about putting the path to wellness out to spouses and dependents
 With that increase in the screening, there is a slight increase in the amount of high and chronic folks in the population, which is not necessarily that surprising because you have more data. You'll see a little bit of an increase there. But again, that high and chronic population is really where we kind of look to outreach and bring those people into the center so we can make great health outcomes.
 So with all this data, what do we know? So what we do here is we basically take all of the information that we get from screening. We also look at information that come in from the claims in the clinic. And then we look at information from our health risk assessment. And we identify in aggregate what those high risks are. So since you have such a great
 you know amount of screening information we really have a great amount of information and feel more confidence in like what those particular things are that we should be targeting from a high and chronic standpoint
 So, on your left-hand side here is the risk factor, and then there's the data source, and then with that we know the number of people with that particular risk factor, and then we have a sample size. So, because we have the understanding of how many people have that risk factor, we can understand what the percent is that have the high risk.
 And then we measure that against what our benchmark is. So that's how we figure out exactly what are those targets and what is above our benchmark to target for a high risk. So we build our 2020 engagement plans based off of this information, and we work with the city specifically to say, you know, how can we promote programs that have to do with these particular risk factors to encourage people to come in and use our services.
 So how do we do that? So here are some of the services that we had in 2019. So we really focused on those high risk pieces, like I said before. So as you see here, right down in the left hand corner was a Know Your Numbers campaign that focused on cholesterol, really encouraged people to come in and talk to the provider about health coaching. We had a bunch of activity challenges that were really successful.
 and we'll continue on for 2020 so we had a ready set go activity challenge and then a walk tober step challenge so that encouraged really you know the kind of weight mindfulness and getting out and being into the getting having exercise using then we did free blood pressure screenings we also
 had a pre-diabetes day that we focused on. So all of these particular pieces really focus on those high risk factors and give people to understand what's happening in the population and encourage them to come into the center.
 We also use different communication tactics. So we send emails, we have flyers, we also do videos. So that's new this year. We actually had a center video that went out with the mayor's message and then Anthony did a November men's health video as well. And then coming in 2020 we're looking to do some webinars which is really exciting. So we try to target and put that content out there in different ways so people can engage
 So, through all that engagement, how did we do? So, this is looking at our year five health outcomes. So on the left hand side are all those high risk and chronic conditions that we really focus on. In the middle here is the target that we want to achieve.
 And then we know how many participants in the population are outside of that normal range. And then we look at the number of people who have made progress. And with that, we can get a percent of the population that we are engaging with who has been successful in moving that needle forward.
 And so we also measure that against what our benchmark is. And so we've surpassed that successful participation with every single one of our benchmarks that we have, which is great to see.
 Claims Trend Analysis. So how does this all come together? So we've really worked to kind of get out to the population and to engage with members, bring them into the center, get them to have a relationship with the provider, made these health outcomes. So what does that mean in terms of cost savings?
 So what we do here is we look at what your claims are on a monthly basis, your average claims on a monthly basis, and then we compare that to what the projected claims spent would be if they're from our PricewaterhouseCoopers 6.5 annual projection. That's just the national benchmark.
 So, what we look at is how far are we from that benchmark? And so, what you really want to be is below that green line there. And so, that difference between the green line and where the is ultimately how much you are saving in claims from that benchmark.
 So for year five, you can see that the little monthly claims is way below that green line, which is a great sign. So year five, if we look at that total annual savings, it's $6.3 million savings from what that projected claims spend would have been. In aggregate, over the past five years, it's a 17.5% annual savings.
 We take that projected savings and then we look at what you've spent in the cost of the center, and that's how we calculate the ROI. So overall, this is a great projection, a great story. You always want to be below that 6.5% traditional annual trend, and you've done a really fantastic job of being below that line and having some really great cost savings there.
 So that's general claims. The other thing that we really want to see is, okay, so that's claims in general. Like what does it look like between people who've had a coaching visit with us versus people who have not visited the center?
 So, what we've done here is we've bucketed anyone who's come in for one or more coaching visits, two or more coaching visits, three or more coaching visits, and we've looked at their per member per year average as compared to somebody who has not visited the center.
 So another thing to take note of here is that orange bar is the number of chronic conditions per member on average. And so when you get up to the 3 plus coaching visits, you're seeing that there are more chronic conditions on average per member, which is actually what we want to see, that we're actually interacting with the folks that have more chronic conditions.
 And what you would think with more chronic conditions, there'd be more higher costs. So it's nice to see that there's not a jump in cost when we get up into three plus coaching visits and increase number of chronic conditions. So this is a really nice way to showcase how that difference is when we have that opportunity to coach. And that's why it's really one of our biggest goals is to try to identify how to interact with the population and bring them in to make that patient relationship work.
 Patient survey. So patient satisfaction is of utmost important to us. Really that's where you are able to make that relationship and even have the opportunity to coach, right? So we really pride ourselves on really great patient satisfaction. So we do have two surveys. We have an annual survey that goes out and we also have a patient experience survey.
 every visit and so patients have the opportunity to tell us how we've done. So we're excited to say that 92% of the annual survey respondents had a very satisfied or satisfied interaction with us and then it was 91% for our patient experience survey. So if there is ever a dissatisfied or very dissatisfied that comes in, we are, excuse me, automatically alerted and
 And if the patient allows, we do have the opportunity to reach out to them to have a conversation about what that challenge was. And we take that very seriously and we make sure to reach out and get the feedback so that we can change any of our processes to better our overall patient relationship.
 Two other little things on this slide. One is available appointment within two days. We want to make sure people have access to the center. So we did find that 92% of them said they could get an appointment within two days. And then ease of scheduling, that's another thing we want to make sure is not a barrier. So 94% in this survey said they had an opportunity to schedule by phone or through the portal.
 So 2020 opportunities, coaching matters obviously, and it's really the main core of how we can help patients get better and really improve their health outcomes and see savings for both the patient and for the city. So our focus is really putting on that coaching in our engagement plans and everything else that we do. Thank you.
 So we will focus on those high risk factors in the population. So in a couple of slides down, we'll just take a quick look at what our engagement plan is and you'll see that there's a target for each one of those particular programs based on what we found in the population.
 Also, interact with the population. If there's ever an opportunity for our staff to get out into, like, the departments or even just interact with the patients outside of the center, we definitely encourage that and we value those opportunities.
 And then also revitalize the path to wellness incentive. Right now there is no points based for coaching activity. So if we bring in some points based on coaching or a comprehensive health review or some kind of patient relationship standpoint into the path to wellness, we hope that that will encourage people to come in and use our coaching service.
 Next, services and tech. We also are doing a couple really interesting things that I wanted to call out specifically. So one is that the city of Rockford has partnered with Ortho Illinois to open the city of Rockford employees to go to Ortho Illinois for sick visits.
 So they are, as of January 2020, will have access to the Ortho Illinois Center for that service, which is great. We also are going to be doing an open house in the introduction for Dr. Bolger. So we are partnering with the departments to bring a large open house and make sure that everybody understands who he is, has the opportunity to meet him.
 And then some new technologies that we're really excited about too. We are rolling out a mobile app, which is great. And so that will allow ease of patient communication, scheduling, appointment reminders. And then also we are bringing on an in-body body composition tool. And this will go live with our Ready, Set, Go program that actually just kicked off today, if anyone's interested.
 And basically what it is is it's a total body composition analysis. And instead of just looking at weight as an indicator of improvement, it allows you to look at body composition in whole. So muscle mass, water retention. And so with that, we have the opportunity to have bigger conversations on goals and also see progress without just looking at the scale.
 So I won't go through this, but this is just a snapshot of our engagement calendar. So months on the last topic, our event, and then the target. And the target really goes right back to what those high-risk and chronic things are that are high risks in the population. Thank you, Lauren. Any further comments? Yes.
 I just want to thank everyone for listening tonight. I know that it's difficult to listen to a lot of data analytics at 7 o'clock at night. There's a bigger slide deck. I don't know if Director Hunter has shared that with you, but in addition to the slides you have tonight, this afternoon we went through two hours of looking at really the whole center, every view you could consider. And what this does is proves to us that this center,
 wellness center is successful for our employees and for our fiscal responsibility for running the health plan. Lauren comes out a couple of times a year. We thank her very much for all of the work that marathon puts into producing these analytics, because a lot of the providers that Ryan talked about that we looked at throughout our,
 journey of finding a provider for operating our wellness center. They don't offer these types of detailed analytics to really show the success in hard numbers. And so I really want to thank you guys for doing that. So thank you very much. That was what I was going to kind of wind up with is that the HR team and you all, as the administrators of this plan, have made a commitment to data.
 and we've spent a lot of time and effort investing in various ways to track data and to pull out these kind of analytics we can't manage the plan without it and to come up with these uh... with the solutions this afternoon we went over some tremendous anecdotes we literally have saved lives with this program
 Maybe if you want to talk to one of our clinicians later, they'll tell you stories of people that have walked in for a screening and had no idea they had something seriously wrong with them, but for that screening was it found out. So it's been very successful in that respect. And then we'll be in front of you one more time. I think tonight there's something on the agenda regarding the pharmacy plan. And then the last thing we'll have for you is stop loss insurance.
 coming up probably at your next meeting. And that should be a good news story as well because the trend on planned costs for this year has been relatively flat. So we try to beat inflation.
 and we've been doing that. We can't, you know, there is a constant pressure against the plan cost, his medical inflation, and what's happening in the high-cost specialty drug arena. So I can't tell you how much I appreciate, and we all need every one of your questions and diligence, and many of the aldermen have reached out to our team and asked questions, and we're open to that at any time if you have questions about the plan. I like to talk about insurance day or night, so feel free to.
 feel free to call me and any one of our teams. So with that mayor, thank you very much. I know you also enjoy talking about insurance and the social determinants of health. Um, so one, thank you. Uh, it's wonderful to see that the engagement is up. It's great to see that the survey, uh, responses are coming back at just anecdotally. Uh, I meet with employees, uh, every two weeks for a luncheon from different departments. It's easily, uh,
 routinely come up at every single lunch as one of the top resources that we have for employees and then on top of that to see the savings that's coming back is really wonderful to see so I know alderman Hervey had her hand raised and we'll start going around
 had the center put in that outer area. We had dreams of an exercise center with state-of-the-art Peloton. No, just kidding. But...
 But some exercise bikes, the equipment that people could use, obviously we'd need a waiver because I don't think it would be staffed. But that is something, I know that equipment can be expensive and you have to make sure that you wipe it down and there's some maintenance and upkeep. But there really is nothing close to this area that I found. We used to have. We do have equipment actually in this building. In this building, yes. And in a number of the other buildings. Oh. But of it.
 well i'm not going down to station three in my leotard that's just not gonna it's not gonna happen but if we could look at that i i i think it could have some good uses um
 for employees over the lunch hour, after work. As I said, it's close by. And if you live in the southwest area, there's not a lot of exercise facilities. Some of them are like those real hardcore, like maximum performance, and I don't want a heart attack, so I'm not going to those. But I think there's some good opportunity to get people more engaged if we could get that equipment in there. I know you do Zumba now, and you do some other...
 program so that's fantastic to get people. Alderman Durkee. I just had four questions, only four.
 The benchmarks that you cite, or you put Marathon Health benchmarks, are those based on anything like HIDAS or something like that? No, they're Marathon Health benchmarks. So we look at all of our 98 customers and then we segment out those that have near site centers and that have had centers open for like five years. So we try to really kind of zoom in on those that are like.
 City of Rockford so that that benchmark makes any reason why you don't use national benchmarks No, I think it might be a little bit different in that mission in the care that they might be looking at and the way They go about it. We could use national benchmarks. It would be an interesting comparison May I offer something that so a lot of their book of business is related to engagement and
 and then kind of tracking amongst peers how many people have particular conditions and whether they're improving or not improving and things like that. But when we take it, and I think Marathon, when you take a look at their criteria for improvement,
 That's coming from the various associations or HEDIS or Johns Hopkins. So when we're looking at what is hypertension one or what is hypertension two and when we're saying we have a desired A1C of 7.5, by the way we push on that all the time, that's where those benchmarks are coming in. So when we're looking at the triple aim data to say there's some success in moving people
 two risk groups to one risk group, that information is benchmarked against those national norms. But the engagement and participation right now is benchmarked against their own book of business. The second one was how many unique lives is the wellness clinic serving?
 Oh, let's see. I think it's about a thousand employees. So about 30%. It's actually on the slide. Well, that's of employees. So we have 1,021 employees. There are 648 spouses and then 1,302 children. And just actually they're not questions, two comments. So you don't have to talk too much. On your survey,
 Would suggest maybe getting it may help with the success of the program because it puts a bug in people's ear Ask it one of your questions likely to recommend likely to recommend to another employee and the other one is I
 Since it does look like, I mean, and they all are cost effective, suggest a premium discount. If they accomplish so many coaching sessions or keep their blood pressure down, then the following year you would get $10 off your semi-monthly premium or something. I don't know. Just a suggestion for incentive. Yeah, that's a lovely incentive.
 I definitely think incentives do matter and you can see that with the path to wellness specifically and I think if we incorporate that into the coaching specifically into path to wellness it'll be a big influencer.
 incentives are important and then incentives that are indexed directly to specific biometrics can work and they can work very well. Sometimes they're problematic and to be honest sometimes in a collectively bargained arrangement they can be problematic but they, those are certainly things that we should look at and consider and it's not too far off the
 off the map for us. What we've done is instead of saying, look, we'll give you a premium incentive if your blood pressure is good or your cholesterol is good or you hit these marks, what we've said is, look, we'll give you an incentive if you participate in the wellness program. And we know that the clinic is a huge part of the wellness program, so we've kind of backed into indexing to a biometric because we know if people go to the clinic and they do their comprehensive health review and they're involved in coaching, then they show up in the good side of the statistics.
 It's kind of how we try to handle the indexing to a biometric without actually doing it. Thank you. Other questions? I will just, I wanted to add one piece to that too. One of the bargaining groups, which we didn't look at today, but some of the data we looked at this afternoon sliced it by bargaining unit. And one of them did negotiate into their contract to receive a cash incentive for participating in coaching visits. And we have pretty good utilization for that particular bargaining group. Thank you.
 Seeing no other questions. Thank you so much. Really appreciate it. Thank you for your time. So we'll move on to petitions and communications and Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Chiarelli. The first, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on December 17, 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on December 30, 2019. The second is a Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda.
 for that meeting to be held on December 17, 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Rights Committee meeting on December 30th, 2019. Third is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 4801 Linden Road and 5055 Linden Road. Number four is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, again the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Ordinance
 Chapter 3, Article 1, Number 5 is a memorandum for Mike Hackinson, the Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed sale of the city-owned property located at 134 North Main Street. Refer all those items to Codes and Rights, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee, and I'll come right back to you, Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 do you have an item on one of those yeah oh i'm sorry okay i'm sorry thank you i'd like to refer that the ground lease agreement uh with trajectory be referred to the codes and regulations committee for further discussion and review thank you
 Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the proposed sale of two city-owned properties located at 615 Furman Street and 1128 Blaisdale under the City's Mode of Owned Program.
 I have a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding an amended and restated intergovernmental cooperation agreement for assessment complaint intervention between the City of Rockford, Rockford School District 205, County of Winnebago, Rock River Water Reclamation, and Rockford Park District. I have a memorandum from the...
 Fire Chief Derek Bergsten regarding approval for the Rockford Fire Department to sell used equipment to the City of Lowe's Park. I have a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the surplus property policy. And I have a memorandum from Cherise Hunter, Human Resources Director, regarding approval of revisions to the City of Rockford rules and regulations. And these items will be referred to finance and personnel.
 Thank you, Alderman. Back next, we'll move to public speakers. We have three public speakers this evening. Just a reminder to all of the public speakers that there's microphones on the back right and back left portions of the chamber, and that you have three minutes to speak. Our first public speaker this evening is Timothy Scordato. Good evening.
 My name is Tim Scarrato, of course. I work for Northwestern Illinois Area Agency on Aging. I'm an attorney over there. We're charged under federal and state law to monitor local government policies and to comment on them and to litigate if it comes to that. It came to my attention recently because we've been receiving a lot of complaints about paper billing fees.
 I understand that it was back in the spring that the city council voted on paper bill fees to receive paper bills in the mail for water services. I find these to be discriminatory against both the elderly and those of the lowest means as well as the disabled.
 You all receive a memorandum from me this week regarding that matter and detailing a little bit more about why these matters are discriminatory. Recently, back in 2016, the Public Utilities Commission for Pennsylvania also found paper bill fees discriminatory, and they just outlawed them in 2016.
 And I'll be talking a little bit more about that in the memorandum as well and I also find it a little bit egregious because some of our clients have been told that these paper bill fees are necessary because of the low budget that the Public Works Department has Yet there's a vote tonight for $70,000 for Alpine pool through the Public Works Department for
 water services So it's a little bit ironic If you have any questions Again, I'll be contacting you We'll probably be talking shortly. But if you have any questions, please reach out to me again My name is Tim skirt. I don't I work for Northwestern Illinois Area Agency on aging. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is prophet Yusef. Good evening ladies and gentlemen
 In the book of Luke, the second chapter, the eighth to the tenth verse, it says, And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night.
 An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were terrified, but the angel said to them, Fear not, because I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you. He is Christ the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, duties toward God. In the book of Sirach, the second chapter, the first to the eleventh verse, it says, My son...
 When you come to serve the Lord, prepare yourself for trials and storms, beasts and sea of hard and steadfast, undisturbed in time of trouble. Cringe to him, forsake him not. Thus will your future be great. Accept whatever comes your way, and crush in misfortune. Be patient, for in fire gold is tested, and worth the men the crucible of humiliation.
 trust god and he will help you make straight your ways and hope in him you who fear the lord wait for his mercy turn not away lest you fall you who fear the lord trust him and your reward will not be lost you who fear the lord hope for good things for lasting joy and mercy study the generation long past and understand has anyone
 hope in the Lord and been disappointed. Has anyone persevered in his fear and been forsaken? Has anyone called upon him and been rebuffed? Compassion and mercy is the Lord. He forgives sin. He saves in time of trouble. Woe to the craving heart and drooping hands, to the sinner who trusts a double payer. Woe to the faint of heart who trusts not, who therefore
 for I will have no shelter. Woe to you who have lost hope. What will you do at the visitation of the Lord? Those who fear the Lord, disobey not his word. Those who love him, keep his way. Those who fear the Lord, seek to please him. Those who love him,
 filled with his law those who fear the Lord prepare their hearts and humble themselves before let us not fall into the hands of the Lord and not into the hands of me for equal to his majesty is the mercy that he shall also want to say happy birthday to Maurice who worked for Rockland Mayor's Trance and see why my barber and I wish you many more and God bless you and your family I also want to say Merry Christmas to everybody here and happy I also want to thank Alderman Beach
 for getting the Salvation Army Band to play that beautiful music at City Hall. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Bramley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I want to end the year by saying Proverbs 28, 27. God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part is Proverbs can be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed.
 and we have others when they are in trouble they would do it whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs? Well I can tell you I ain't got to be symmetry in the rest.
 Ron Clure from Gorman took 13 of our individuals to Target and they were able to get $50 worth of items, clothes or toys. And each one of the 13 went over the $50. But he laughed about that. But then Target joined in and added $50.
 added funds so they were able to get more stuff for almost a hundred bucks. So we want to thank Target for that. Lutheran Diocese Church is taking care of the other five families for Christmas. So by Christmas and ending the year with the Harlem Gold Travelers Gang, we were looking at taking 40 peoples that we need to raise
 840 bucks where put my foot in my mouth again we got 60 people signed up they want to go see the Harlem Gold Traveler so I got till Friday to continue the race at least another 200 bucks in order to take all 60 people to the Harlem Gold Traveler what I want to talk about is the uh starting the new year Dr. King's birthday is uh we want to look at taking our youth to Springfield taking the page out of state representative Maurice West
 that he did. He took 35 of our youth from Kennedy Middle School. Remind you, last year, we had over 65 of our youth that got expelled out of school and over 100 of them who had been suspended out of school. So in complaining, uh,
 Two of our youth, when we was at Iris Rose for a Democratic Tribute Contest, we came in second place. But three of our youth asked Maurice West about going to Springfield. So we asked Maurice West, got with him, we wanted to go to Springfield around Dr. King's birthday.
 He informed me that he got other things to do. Well, we can't wait on someone to do something for us. We want to continue to make this effort to go to Springfield for the first time and get with the school because this is an educational experience. And plus, the youth could get something out of this by taking our eighth graders and our high school and our parents to Springfield
 i'm also going to mention before i leave is that i am appalled at the fact that what city do y'all know tear down a building with dr king's name on it and to and then i'm going to look up to see how many cities have raised a school or property with dr king's name on it and what have you and why
 even though they said the board of education said that they had opened it to the public i find that appalling because we really wanted to say something about that but that uh uh when's the next city council meeting be in two weeks uh director meyer let's just do it next council meeting is next council meeting is january 6th there's committees on december 30th okay thank you thank you
 Okay, moving on to new committee reports. We'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. First, the committee recommends approval of the request for permission to place a city-owned parcel located at 728 South 6th Street for sale. Thank you.
 The second, the committee recommends approval of the plat of Swedish American Hospital, East 8th Street. The third, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery convenience store at 2907 West State Street.
 subject to conditions and the legal director should prepare all the appropriate ordinances your honor and I place those three items up for Passage Thank You alderman Trelli. So there's three items before you is there any discussion on those three items saying none clerk Will you please call the roll turkey? Yes, bring it to bird frost Herbie urban's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back
 McNeely, Chiarelli, 14 ayes. Thank you, those items passed.
 Finance and Personnel Committee with Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. The first one is the approval of the vouchers in the amount of $5,795,931.64. Next is the approval of the budget amendment to the 2020 Police Department operating budget, increasing the authorized number of non-sworn personnel by one full-time employee.
 This budget amendment will eliminate the contract employee position and implement a full-time exempt position of media and marketing manager. And the third is the approval of the City of Rockford grant policy. I place these three items up for passage. Thank you. So there's three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, would you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins.
 Hoffman Aye Rose Aye Beach Aye Quinones Aye McNeely Shirely 14 ayes Thank you. Next up we have officers reports. Alderman Quinones. Yes, I'd like to wish everybody here a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. And I also want to voice my displeasure with the school district for tearing down King's School without a public notice to see if they could be used for something else. Not only did they tear the school down.
 The name came down with it. Martha Luther King, who was a famous civil rights leader in a predominantly minority neighborhood. How can we be a top 25 city when we let things happen like this? That's it. Okay. Alderman Thompson Kelly, and I'll come right back to you.
 Thank you. First of all, I want to apologize to the City Council. Two years ago, we started working with Trajectory, which is a solar company in this community.
 And one of the things that I ask all of you to support was their plan to rent the quarry to offer energy savings to the community and hire individuals in this community. Well, they lied.
 They misled. I took them through the community and asked the community for their support, the churches for their support, the neighborhood groups for their support. I also asked you for their support and you gave it. We had a job fair last week and one of the things that one of the representatives stated in the meeting that they were only going to work with the union for employment.
 The unions were there and they also agreed that they will only be working with their union individuals that they have already sitting waiting for jobs. One of the conversations that has been constant on the table is that they hire individuals from the Rockford community, that they support Rockford community with their hiring.
 That was a lie as well. I did speak with representatives from Trajectory where they went to the churches and they promised the churches. And I was just going over some of their material that they have been passing out through the community. There's things that they have not provided that they should be providing.
 One of the comments was that they were very fortunate to have Rockford Housing Authority as one of their supporters. But what they haven't done with the Rockford Housing Authority and the residents of the Housing Authority is to provide the savings, which should be up to 8% on their solar project.
 They also have not provided to the Rockford Housing Authority residents, some of them that expressed a desire to have employment with them, nor a contract on that 8% solar project.
 They also have not provided the housing savings for the energy savings, and they list all of the housing projects that they're going to be subscribing to with the residents of those housing projects. Well, if they have not provided with that contract to the housing authority, nor information to the residents on the savings that they're going to receive, that's deceiving as well.
 So I find it very necessary to apologize to all of you in supporting this. And this is one of the things that I
 Sent back to codes and regs for discussion And I want a fair open discussion, but I feel misused. I feel that they have misrepresented The city as a whole and they're going through the committee committee at telling the community that the city and the City Council supports their project and I will say tonight that I
 I will not support this. I will add these conditions on to their rental agreement, and I hope I get your support that they hire people from this community, that they live up to the commitment that they have been making for the last two years. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeil? Thank you, Mayor. I, too, want to comment regarding King Elementary School. I know that they did.
 the school district did put forth a list of the number of schools and the location the school names that they were going to get rid of i was told prior to this as early as a year ago that there were a number of individuals through organizations that were talking with the school district to try and obtain king school because there's a lack of meeting places
 for the communities for at least three wards to meet for minorities i'm not sure what happened with with those discussions i didn't question it until now because i thought for sure the individuals and the organizations that were in discussion with the school district would come to some type of
 positive agreement given that we needed a location such as King School, which wasn't that old. I don't have the date on here how old it is. It was rather because it's completely tore down. But it is sad that that school is down and the need that we have in our communities
 to have a place for forums, for community discussions, community meetings. And also this, I know one proposal was to start a school there at Kennedy, at King School. So it saddens me that of all the properties that are within those communities, that this school had to be demolished.
 my understanding that it was unique in a number of ways. And I've also been told that, I believe it's Washington School that the kids have been directed to, yeah, Washington, the kids from King are going to, and that that school now is overcrowded. So I know it's after the fact, but I still think it's important that we speak up when we see things that are not right.
 Secondly, this happened a week or so ago, but I was very disappointed in our U.S. Attorney General William Barr when he said that those who don't show more respect to cops may not get police protection. And I'm sure that's not the sentiment of this city or this police department, but it's extremely annoying that...
 the U.S. Attorney General would make a comment like that, given the various problems we have in different communities, particularly within the African American minority communities between police in those communities. I don't know if this Council has an appetite to send a letter to the Attorney General's office saying that we're not
 support of what he said stated and that were appalled at what he stated finally I'm sure everyone or most people got were able to read the article in the paper regarding regarding the casino and senator Severson and a number of donors for for that mm-hmm
 I'm so glad that I presented that question, wanting to know who the investors are. And I still have that question. I know that the Register Star presented a list, but within that list, there are trusts. And we don't know who's in those trusts. But just from that list, we do know a number of individuals that are currently or have in the past
 done business with the city through boards or directly, that I would think that that would be a conflict. However, these days in government, unfortunately, a lot of things that people would think would be conflicts are not conflicts. But I do, Mr. Mayor, would like to ask if we have lobbyist filing requirements, if our city has that.
 director Meyer no we do not have a registry ready registry for lobbyists I don't believe any city in the state has any registry other than I believe Chicago may have one but as far as I can tell there aren't any other miss values what has them like that oh that'll be one of the things
 uh... attorney myers that i will be calling you tomorrow to sit down and talk with you uh... about so we can prove present something to a committee and move that forward nothing else that casino situation has brought that to my attention something that we desperately need i also think we need to look at some other uh... items regarding
 regarding who can be on committees and boards and if there are conflicts there. So I hope to work with Attorney Myers with that as well. I will put forth a copy of the City of Chicago lobbyist filing requirements and have that as a basis for us to start discussions. Thank you very much. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Well, on a lighter note, I just want...
 for those people that got a chance to watch the bear Packer game, uh, last night, uh,
 I just wanted to say congratulations to Dean Lowry. He's a Rockford native, a Boylan grad, had a big interception during the game. And seeing that we've celebrated some really great pro athletes, and Fred VanVleet, I wanted to give a shout-out to him and his family. And I hope they do well continuing the season, and I hope that if they do for some reason make the Super Bowl,
 i'm a bears fan so this is hard to say that we um celebrate uh dean it in a way that is consistent with what we did with fred and um kudos to the team for having a good season and look forward to watching them as the playoffs come forward in the next few weeks
 thank you alderman hervey continuing on sports note um i just wanted to in a serious note recognize the united states president's golf team for bringing it home once again and also recognizing tiger woods who captained the team and also led a great 18 holes to help support their coming from behind and winning
 i just think it's always nice when we have something good happen in the middle of a bunch of negative stuff and that certainly was one um a lot of people don't like golf because it is a slower pace etc but that president's cup was a good was a good win for the united states on another note i wanted to
 Say one thing about King School. It is in the fifth ward and I remember the fight to get the old Montague school torn down and King School replacing it. People won't remember this, but children were going to school in horrific conditions in the old Montague building.
 the Rockford Fire Department actually cited it for numerous code violations and wanted them to close portions of it down and of course they didn't they left our kids in there and contrary to popular opinion those weren't just minority children our neighborhood at that time was African American we had a lot of Italian Lithuanian
 the six nationalities that built Southwest Rockford. So there were a lot of children who were abused.
 by some of the conditions there. We used to sneak up there and slide down the old coal chute, and my mother would get us because you had coal all over your clothes when you got home, but we had fun playing on it. Until I started working the People Who Care case, I didn't know how dangerous that chute was. It was ready to fall apart. But we had fun. So, I understand people's feelings about King School. I wish they could have done the tear down a little different, but one of the things
 I do have to give the school board a little bit of props for is that
 they did pledge 500,000, I think, for every one of the schools that they closed. And they said if they couldn't come up with an acceptable use, that they would tear the schools down. And the reason for that was so we didn't end up with another church school, so we didn't end up with another garrison. Even though the garrison lofts are great now, it took a long time and some real hardship for some of the people in that neighborhood to get there.
 So I understand why they tore it down. I would like to see us look at rededicating that site. I don't know what it's going to be. I don't know whether it's going to be park space. There is a playground area there.
 but mandeville park is two two steps away so i doubt if it would be a park but i would like to see uh the community maybe come up with a community use for that land whether it's a community garden and i'm talking about flower gardens not corn stalks but flower gardens a community meeting or sitting area public art
 a bunch of ideas that could really be supported in that area. So I hated to see it go down because of what it represented, but I certainly didn't want to see the school get there while people continue to come and break the windows and desecrate the building with filthy graffiti.
 Thank you certainly and I just add to that. I I'm not aware of I didn't read the newspaper to see if they did the notifications I would believe that they did but I I know they went as far also to Provide citizens the opportunity to go and get bricks from the building. So doing that I would assume they followed the previous point of putting up the notifications alderman Hoffman I
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to commend Chief O'Shea for his article in the paper concerning our drug issue. It was really well written, distressing, but well written and informative. And I read it. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Irvins? Yeah, I wanted to say congratulations to Pastor Justin and Lady Rebecca and the SOAR Assembly family. New Zion off of Salter Avenue, Fifth Ward. They just moved in. SOAR Assembly in its nine months of ministry have been able to go forward and purchase that building.
 we're really excited for the good that we're gonna be able to do in that area and yeah I'm just looking forward to it congratulations thanks alderman Durkin thank you mayor I would comment on Rose this comment there are no self-respecting Bears fan wishes to Packers in the Super Bowl it's just not right it's not right
 In any event, on a little bit more of a summary, I'll be quick. Mr. Wurre sent all the aldermen the survey, the perception on crime survey, and I would encourage you to take a look at that survey and look at the data because none of this data makes any sense to me. The way they did the survey was they surveyed people on the Internet
 which will skew your results. The other is 85% of them are Caucasian. 20% of the people don't even live in Rockford. A good portion of the respondents have college degrees and advanced degrees. So it hardly represents a good sample size of Rockford. In fact, they used a four-point Likert scale, which for those who should know this, it
 It doesn't give you a neutral position. So in other words, you have to respond. You have to either say, yeah, I agree, or I don't agree. There's no neutral. I have no opinion. So, I mean, it gives some interesting data, but, boy, this is, just my comment, this is really severely limited. And I personally think, for a university, kind of poorly done. So just my comment. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you.
 thank you mayor i'd just like to point out i'm i'm going to keep mum on the most part for right now i think alderman durkee and alderman hervey took most of the time during that housing
 presentation but I know that there again was pointed out a lack of economic opportunities in the city which prevent low-income households proving their income and such I think in the in the very near future we want to take we might want to discuss that a little bit further with manufacturing companies with UPS
 with other companies the like that have talked to probably each and every one of us that they do have job openings and They just simply can't fill them because people decide they don't want to work They find ways to work the system. What have you? But so when I hear lack of economic opportunities You know and and see the economic numbers that are out there when we have record low employment. We have record employment
 um there's just a lot of things out there i know rockford's unique in ways but i think there's warrants of further conversation going forth on that but uh i'll hold off on other parts right now the associated bank thank you mayor mayor and i were at associated bank they put a lot of money in in an area that needs it
 Unfortunately, when we could look out the window of a $2 million renovation and see broken windows of the armory that themselves and their clients and customers have to look out on, I would hope that we're doing our best with that. Snow market up at...
 The North End, the roundabout was this weekend, a huge success. It was the first annual. Some of you may have made it. Kudos to Mark and Emily Christensen of the Norwegian, Mike Werkel of the West Side Showroom and others that were involved with that. It was spectacular. A big thank you again to Alderman Beck, Alderman Rose, Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly for...
 believing in that we could put the city can put capital into that area and with that new parking lot made just a huge difference there I think there might have been well over over those two days over a thousand people might been pushing two thousand people
 So these are people not just from North End Square, Signal Hill, Churchill's Grove, and Edgewater, but these are individuals coming from throughout the city that frankly, probably many of them had mentally given up on that area and were brought to an event that was just spectacularly run. I wanna thank you for everyone that attended and everyone that had a hands in on that. I think that's part of our
 job is in this capacity we're in tonight as government is to, you know, foster
 help foster an environment that helps, you know, unleash entrepreneurs to do what they just did this weekend. You know, let the free market take over after we, whether it's putting in a new parking lot, making sure bridges are okay, and such. So thank you everyone for that, and thank you to all the businesses there. I'd like to also recognize a new business in the Third Ward.
 Lisa Frost, the wife of Alderman Frost, has found the Third Ward is a great place to do business and has now an art studio in the Third Ward. So wish her all the success. And, of course, she can call her alderman. Now, which one she'd call, I'm not sure, in case she has an issue. I'll make sure she has your number on the speed dial. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Thank you to Mrs. Frost on that. Thank you for your time. Wonderful. Alderman Beach, and I'll come back to Alderman McNeely for more comments. Oh, this is nice to see us go around towards the end of the year. But, you know, we were talking to some friends the other night about some events in Rockford starting around this winter holiday season with Stroll on State and then the fantastic Nicholas Conservatory. If you haven't been down, it doesn't matter.
 cost anything to go build beautiful lights. And then the festival lights across the street, some 70 new displays.
 And then soon, John, I don't remember the date, the snow scalp date. These are big events in this community that cost nothing for the people, except come in their cars, get out, and enjoy them. I just want to say to all those involved in these events, thank you so much for bringing so much excitement to our community for the families. Thank you, sir. Oitzinelli, Merry Christmas. I'm going to go right back to Alderman McNeely, and then I'll come back to you, Alderman Toomer.
 Thank you, Mayor. I forgot to wish everyone a very Merry Christmas to everyone here and to all of the residents of the city. I also need to announce that the Democratic Caucus will not have a meeting tonight and we probably won't have another meeting until the new year.
 Thank you. Thank you alderman timber I just want to thank Kyle Saunders and those at Public Works that helped out with that snow market With some of the little odds and ends to help make that happen. So thank you Public Works and director Saunders Alderman Beach I forgot to follow suit here The the Republicans were gonna have a caucus this evening for the holiday. Let's cancel that down It will start again the first of the year Wonderful. All right
 So we are going to move on to unfinished business. Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Shirell. Thank you, Your Honor. I believe I just have one item tonight. It's the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 4307, 4311, 4315, 4317, and 4417 Auburn Street.
 subject to conditions and placed it up for a passage your honor thank you is there any discussion on that item alderman Thompson Kelly I think you your honor I did speak with the attorneys over the weekend in regards to this in regards to the earlier closing hours and the amount of police calls that we have seen at this establishment I was concerned because even though it's new ownership it's still the same management
 But staff and I are going to stick to the 12 o'clock closing Till they prove themselves so the attorney and I agree that those stipulations will stay Thank you. Thank you any other discussion seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? Yes, brainy Toomer Ross Herbie Irvin's Thompson Kelly Coffman Rose Beach Kenosha
 beck aye mcneely aye shirelli aye 11 eyes two noes thank you thank you next up uh the appointments are laid over until after december 18th so that'll be january alderman hervey your honor um looking at the appointments and then our schedule and that we're not we're not meeting next week um i don't know whether it's appropriate but
 Could we possibly, I mean we're almost at the 18th, today's the 16th. I was wondering if we could suspend the rules and vote on these appointments tonight? You can't? We can. There's, so the three that are in front of you now, there is a, is that a motion to suspend those? There is a 30-day rule and we've suspended it in the past with a motion to suspend that rule. There's a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on that?
 This is just a motion to suspend the rule all those in favor say aye aye Those opposed. Okay. So now those three appointments will come up before you now I need discussion on those three appointments seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye aye those opposed Okay. Thank you alderman. Herbie. I'm sure those boards will be excited to have a
 There are new members. Next up, motions and resolutions. We'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have eight items. The first is the award of bid for window cleaning for city facilities to crystal image cleaning in the amount of $27,804. Next is the award of bid for fire station kitchen remodels to Larson and Larson Builders in the amount of $98,208. The work includes station two at 7...
 1004 7th Street, Station 4 at 2959 Shaw Woods Drive, Station 5 at 391 North Traynor Road, and Station 6 at 3329 West State Street. Item 3 is the approval of agreement for specialty drug prior authorization. Human Resources Department recommends implementing this specialty drug clinical prior authorization oversight program with ELMCRX. This company is currently part of the City of Rockford Pharmacy Benefits Management. There's no administrative
 Fixed fee expenses are 25% of recovered savings, which could exceed $25,000 annually. Next, we have the renewal of agreement for workers' compensation and excess coverage 2020 with Safety National for excess policy for contract amount rates. Premium is based on estimated annual payroll of $83,837,009 at $8,000.
 point 20.2062 dollars per 100 dollars of payroll for a total estimated annual premium of 172 872 dollars next we have the award of non-competitive bid for chemical feed equipment supplies and service to smith ecological systems for an estimated annual contract value of 125 000 dollars
 Next, we have the award of non-competitive bid for traffic controller equipment parts, mobile tracks, mobility and traffic experts for an estimated amount of $300,000. Next, we have the city street agreement for railway high
 Railway highway grade crossing improvements to the kishwaukee street and illinois railway tracks Using federal railway highway crossing program funds. This agreement outlines the funding of the estimated 513 thousand seventy dollars funding sources ninety percent federal ten percent railroad
 with no cost to the city and the final is the resolution to reduce water related fees to the park district in an amount not to exceed $70,000 during 2020 in exchange for the park district reopening alpine pool for the 2020 season Additionally, the park district has agreed to have coordinated marketing activities with the city of Rockford water division My place is eight items up for passage
 Thank you alderman back. So there's eight items before you is there any discussion on those eight items alderman beach. Thank you your honor number three Help me understand what fee we will pay and turn over to director hunter the fees will be based upon the actual savings that May occur within the specialty drug. So from so so the report says they could exceed 25,000 they could yes, I see. I
 thank you alderman hervey yeah the last um when this came up um in committee i had a lot of questions about it and while i still have some concerns i met with miss hunter and mr braunt about this although i have concerns about some of these third-party reviews i also have some concerns about big pharma and little pharma and and some of the very scary things that are happening with our costs and um
 what's going on with drug gouging i guess there's no other way to put it i am more comfortable that we have some checks and balances in place to keep
 some of the abuses that we used to see with managed care and specialty care from occurring. And I believe Ms. Hunter and Mr. Braun are going to be reviewing, there's about two dozen of these claims each year, and they're going to be monitoring those claims as they come up because we do know what they are. So that's what I feel a little better about. So I am going to give it some support with the condition that we do monitor these claims.
 on an annual basis and make sure that our employees are not suffering unnecessary delays I think they told me it's about a 72 hour review period so they have some requirements so they can't delay these things out for 30 days actually I think within the 30 days they're required to approve approve the the specialty drug for a 30 day period if they're going to take longer and
 than that period of time so you don't have children or severely ill people waiting on someone to make a decision. Thank you. Any other discussion on the eight items before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Gasparini. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye.
 McNeely. Shirelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 14 ayes. Item number 8, 12 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. Thank you. So those items pass next up. We'll go to Alderman Hervey for the housing committee. Oh, there is, yeah, there is one item.
 There's one item under house. I'm sorry for the housing committee. I forgot that was me Yes, Arna. We have one item to place up for passage and that is approval of the neighborhood revitalization strategy Thank you. Is there any discussion on the item before us seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? Gasparini timber frost Herbie Irvin's Thompson Kelly
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next up, we have New Business Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Let's see, I've got four items this evening. There's an ordinance approving the request for permission to place the city-owned parcel located at 728 South 6th Street up for sale. Need to suspend Rule 15 on that item, Your Honor. Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend Rule 15 on Item B1. Is there any discussion? Seeing none, all those in favor of suspending the rule, say aye. Aye. Those opposed?
 Item the rule will be suspended. Thank you honor The second is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store convenience store at 2907 West State Street
 number three is an ordinance approving the sale of package liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 4307 4311 4315 4317 and 4417 auburn street number four is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store
 at 4307, 4311, 4315, 4317, and 4417 Auburn Street. I place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelli. We have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. No. Irving. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach.
 Hinonas, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Items one, two, 14 ayes. Item number three, 11 ayes, three nos. Item number four, 14 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items passed. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. The first is the ordinance approving the budget amendment to the 2020 Police Department Operating Budget, increasing the authorized number of non-sworn personnel by one full-time employee. Next is the approval of the City of Rockford grant policy. And the third is the...
 Ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement between the Rockford Public Library and asked me local 3350 affected January 1 2019 through December 31 2023 do I need to read through all the terms? Meyer
 no we placed it on the agenda and listed all the the basic terms in terms of the uh the wage increases and bonus structure for the term of the contract so i do need to ask for a suspension of rule second we have a motion a second to suspend the rules do you mind if we just vote on that suspension first sure we have a motion in a second all those in favor of suspending the rules for item c three say aye aye those opposed same sign
 I place them up for passage. We have three items before you for your discussion. I need discussion. Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Ciavelli. 13 ayes.
 I am terribly excited to tell you that we do not need to go to closed session. So, yeah, I know. Yeah. So Merry Christmas. And is there a motion? Second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.