Okay, I will call to order the city of Radford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday December 18th 2023 clerk could you please call the roll? Ogeman frost Tarina crunchy Wilkins Hoffman rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 12 present I Excellent we have a quorum this evening we have no proclamation so we're gonna go right into petitions and communications We have nothing under planning and development, so I'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina. Thank you your honor Item number one is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 3900 South Main Street referred to code and regulation committee 2. A memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding annexation 47XX South Main Street, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. 3. The Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on December 19, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Quota Regulation Committee meeting on January 8, 2023, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. item number four the liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on december 19 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration of the regulation committee meeting on january 8 2023 referred to quota regulation committee and last number five a memorandum from nicholas meyer legal director regarding an amendment to the city of rockford code of ordinances chapter 4 article 2 division 1 and 2 dogs referred to quota regulations committee thank you Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. First, we have a bid opening for the sale of a portion of city-owned property located at 421 College Avenue. I will open the bid. Sealed by Fort Knox. It's a big check. The bid received from Fred Brecklin at 702 Seminary in the amount of $500, and the The certified of $50 is enclosed, and I'll hand that back to the clerk. So Fred is the only bid in here. Number two is a memorandum from, oh, I'm sorry, that will be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number two is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the American Rescue Plan Implementation Phase 3, which will also be referred to Finance and Personnel. And number three is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding a request for a partial release of city liens recorded against a property located at 307 North Hinkley Avenue. And this will also be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up, we're going to move into our public speakers portion of our council meeting. We do have four public speakers. Want to remind the public speakers that there's microphones on the back left and back right of council chambers. Each speaker has three minutes to address council. You'll hear an alarm from my phone go off when your three minutes is up and me asking you to close your comments. Our first speaker this evening is Joan Sage. Thank you, Mayor and all the persons. Happy holidays and happy to be here. Thank you for everything that you do all year. Just have three things I'd like to share with you. At your desks, you should have a card like this. In case you ever see or a resident calls you about a cable line that might be low or blocking something, instead of calling Dale or me, you can always do that, but it would be quicker if you call our 24-7 emergency phone number here. It's our... Operation excellence and they will take care of it What you'll need to do is tell them what the situation is the address and then between you and them They'll determine if we need to send a technician out immediately or if it can be done the next day So keep that in mind hang on to this. This is only for staff and elected officials to use this number and Secondly, and maybe you've seen the commercials for our storm ready Wi-Fi. When your power goes out, if you have our service and you have our storm ready Wi-Fi, you will have four hours of electricity to use to stay on the internet. Maybe you've seen the commercial where the two kids, the brother and sister, and the power goes out and the little boy is really excited because he can continue to do his homework and his sister's like, who are you? So it's kind of a nice thing to have, so you can stay connected. Then the third thing that I'm most excited about is an article that was in the paper 10 years ago We started the Internet Essentials Program 12 years ago, and this article was about Cleveland Red, who really wanted to have access at home. He would go to the library. He would stay late after school. He was a student athlete, National Honor Society. For him to have Internet Essentials and the Internet at home really helped him. So if you have a moment, I think you'd really enjoy reading this. He went on to college, became an engineer, is now married, and he has a little baby. So it's one of our really neat success stories for Internet Essentials. So it's just part of us being here, being part of the community, and trying to do the best for everyone. Happy holidays, and thank you for your time. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Denzel Winter. Good afternoon, committee, mayor. I tell you, I'm a graduate of the – Police Citizens Academy, and the mayor was there. And it helped me a whole lot to understand some of the goings on. I missed a couple of classes, but I'm going to be back to go in there again. But, you know, we still have a problem with young men getting mistreated. And I think what needs to be done, we need to get some kind of committee or some people together, because all that's going to do is cause problems. And we want to nip that in the behind before it gets out of hand. But I tell you, I've got to give my police chief her dues, because she's a working one. working person. She's always there whenever something happens or in in public, you know, so she is a good, you chose a good person to be there and the reason I really got a lot of respect for her is because she's been there. My kids know her when she was a liaison in the school and they talk very highly of her. So thank you. And I looked to get in that course again because I got to make up for the ones I missed. So it was good, and I appreciate you too, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara and all the citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm just going to do a little piggyback off of him. I took the citizen class about 15 years ago. I took it twice when Carla Redd was the sergeant and she asked me, you taking it a second time? Yes. And the reason why I'm good at what I'm doing today is from taking that police citizen class and I took it twice because I want to make sure that when I got out here and opened up my mouth, I knew what I was talking about. And we went last week, we came back from Morris, Illinois, with a U-Haul for the toys and stuffed animals and gifts. We gave half of them to the Book of Washington Center. We gave one to the church, and we're going to give a few to Patriot Gateway Center. I wanted to mention the fact that we are at the school program. We have a tutor that's not charging me one real cent to tutor seven of our kids math and reading at the Monahue Library. What school do you go to? Say it out. Lewis Lemon Lions. What school do you go to? Conference Lane. What school do you go to? Riverdale Elementary School. So I got three schools, I don't have no one from Welch here, four elementary schools. We only touching the surface of the seven kids and we got hundreds of kids out there who need our help. And I'm going to bring this up to mind when I speak at the board meeting. They're also going to start giving our kids credit in elementary school because we are going to the Museum of Science and Industry next year and we're going to the Sovereignly gym next year. Mayor, we want to invite you and all the person that's in the Blackhawk housing area. Because we couldn't do the Christmas party at Blackhawk, we joined at the Patriot Gateway Center and it'd be very good for you to hear from the constituents that live in that area. I am not going to let Chip off the hook. Every Boys and Girls Club here in Rockford, doors is open, their doors is not locked. If you have a problem with your constituents at Blackhawk, there. You have a domestic violence union, you have the Peace and Justice Center, the police department has special units, Rockford Housing Authority has specialists, and sit down with your constituents at the Blackhawk and find out a way to work out your difference. We did that in Fairgrounds, we did that in Orton Keyes. Why we can't do that in Blackhawk? And it irks me that we been having Christmas parties in Blackhawk for years. And for him to tell the parents that they can't come in the door, he only talked to the parents through the microphone. We're not having that. The money that the Boys and Girls Club gets is for the help of constituents in the Blackhawk and the surrounding community. And if you're afraid of your constituents, you have the wrong job. If a fireman is scared to go into a house that's on fire, he got the wrong job. As a police officer... going to have people skills, he have the wrong job. I can go on and on down the line, but he don't know who he was messing with when he disrespected peoples in Blackhawk and let me start that. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I hope we can get more kids to get after-school programs. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 18th chapter, the 24th verse, it says, Show thyself friendly... And there's a friend that'll stick closer than a brother. I thank God for Alderman Beach. This is a poem, and the name of the poem is Don't Quit. When things go wrong, as they sometimes will, when the road you're trudging seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high, and you want to smile but you have to sigh, when care is pressing you down a bit, Rest if you must, but don't you quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learn. And many a failure turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't give up. Though the pace seems slow, you might succeed with another blow. Often the gold is near then, it seems to a faint and faulted man. Often the struggle has given up when he might have captured the victor's cup. And he learned too late. when the night slipped down, how close he was to the golden crown. Success is failure turned inside out, the silver tint of the clouds of doubt, and you never can tell how close you are. It may be near when it seems afar. So stuck to the fight when your heart is hit. It's when things seem worse that you must not quit. I learned that from my mother a long time ago. Thank you for allowing me to speak, and I love Alderman Beach. You couldn't give me a trillion dollars for him. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Okay. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. We're going to move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, we have committee recommends approval of the 2024 annual action plan. This plan directs the expenditure of CDBG home and ESG program funds for the next year. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number two, committee recommends approval of the proposed redevelopment agreement between the city of Rockford and Classic Cuts for a one-time TIF reimbursement from the South Main Rockford. ROCK STREET TIF FUND IN THE AMOUNT OF $25,000. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. ITEM NUMBER THREE, COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY CONDITIONAL SET-ASIDE OF HOME, HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM FUNDS FOR LAFAYETTE APARTMENTS AT 411 MULBERRY STREET. THE FEDERAL FUNDING SOURCE IS THE HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, HOME. THE MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF FUNDING BASED ON GAP FINANCING IS $650,000. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. Thank you, Alderman Wilkins. We, Council, now have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? No discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm in one. Aye. Logerman. Toomer. Cross. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Bonnie. Item number one, 13 ayes, one no. Items two and three, 14 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items. Item number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 205 West State Street. subject to conditions legal direct shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number two the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval of a modification of an existing liquor license for 50% stock purchase in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 752 and 908 West Riverside Boulevard Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance While have the floor your honor. Can I just make a motion to lay over items one and two, please? motion to lay over items one and two And we have a second since it's the first time that's automatically laid over. Is that correct? Correct. Okay. So items one and two are laid over. We'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $14,016,396.03. As approved, the Finance and Personnel Committee held on December 11, 2023. Number two is the approval of the general wage increase for nonrepresented employees. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these two matters before you. Thank you. Counsel, there's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Vonnie. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Those items are approved. Next we have officers' reports. We'll just start by saying one sincere congratulations to our colleague and friend, Frank Beach. Frank was recognized last week at the... Awards event for the Excalibur and Excelsior award They provided if you weren't aware for new awards, I believe to community champions and advocates and very rightfully so Frankie you And I shouldn't say won it. You earned it through a tremendous amount of years of service, and it was fun to hear a little bit about it because I think we all see Alderman Beach here and know of your decades of service to City Council, but of all the other places that you and truthfully your wife Sonia provide your time and talent to throughout the community it's really remarkable and just want to say congratulations to you and I'll say congratulations to you and Sonia for that award because it definitely takes two of you to do all the work that you've done and it's appreciated so it was great that you were seen and recognized absolutely Lastly, I would just say I think this is our official last meeting unless one of you like call a special meeting Which then I'll take back everything. I'm about to say now But it's our last meeting of 2023, and I think you've looked back on the year, certainly challenging but incredibly productive for this body, at times contentious, but also the vast majority of it was unanimous. And I would just say also many of you that I've gotten to know more personally over this past year have, also are dealing with immense challenges, either professionally or personally. And I would just say I appreciate all of you. If I don't always agree with all of you, I still appreciate all of you for your Just the amount of time and dedication that you've given to the city of Rockford even through some of your personal challenges And professional challenges over this past year I think Rockford's better for what the what this council has done this past year and just want to say thank you for that With that I'll open up the floor for officers reports alderman Bonnie. Thank you mayor. I wanted to also congratulate alderman Beach, but Speak a little bit more about the event itself. I I thought I just think it's terrific that the community foundation of Northern, Illinois and the the Northern Illinois Center for Nonprofit Excellence have joined forces with the Rockford Register Star to keep the Excelsior Excalibur Awards alive. And the recognition that Alderman Beach received is new, but the Excalibur Excelsior tradition dates back to 1971. It had been for decades the premier community service recognition award. in Rockford and it was been during COVID and for other reasons including the declining resources of the Register Star had not occurred live in two years and it came roaring back and I just think it's great Two organizations that are now supporting the register star and it also should have our recognition as well as The actual winners of Excalibur and Excelsior, which were Armando Cardenas and the Golden Apple Foundation which is Relatively newly headquartered in the 14th ward. So I'm just happy to Have been there. I covered the event at for the newspaper for my last five years there and Just I think it's a great thing for the community that this This night is still around it happens at this at the end of the year and it really does bring a lot of people together Thank you. Thank you. Well, I mean Rose. Yeah. Thank you your honor. I just wanted to I recognize our staff One of the things about working at City Council that I've realized in this different organizations I've worked for over the past few years and in my past is that Our staff really dedicate a lot of a lot of their time but added time after work to additional work here at the city and I One of the things that I think has helped a lot of us from a City Council perspective is knowing that we have experts in the field and that when we ask them the tough questions and look into issues and Really kind of dig in deep to those different issues is that they're giving us really good answers Professional answers ones that are based off of best practices and and I don't know if the general public understands that our staff is understaffed that we compared to other cities, we have a lot less people to work with and while that's Difficult at times I know for them. I think it's important for us to recognize them because I Just don't think people realize the the specialists in the field that we have and you know It's hard to keep up at times obviously with some of the more recent news But I think it's very important for our community to understand that our staff is always working for them that they're getting the best bang for their buck and and that we have, I think, one of the best organizations, you know, probably within the 50 square miles of Rockford and the people that work here and dedicate their life. And so I wanted to recognize each and every one of them for that work and wish them happy holidays. Thank you. Other woman, Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to start out by first saying thank you to everyone who has sent an email, phone call, text, said a prayer for me over the past month as I've been dealing with health issues. It definitely means a lot to me just to reach out and to know that, you know, sometimes we may have our differences on this floor, but outside of here, you know, we keep everyone in prayer and wish everyone well. I just wanted to announce yet again, we've got Edge Community Fellowship on 2000 Kilburn Avenue. They're having another event coming up on December 23rd from noon to three. They'll have a meet Santa and Mrs. Claus event. You can get your pictures taken with Santa. They've got some free food gifts for the kids and family fun Again, this is a free community event open to all Edge Community Fellowship on Kilburn Avenue on the 23rd. Thank you. Thank you other reports alderman Bailey Yeah, just like to publicly acknowledge the fire recruits who graduated I had a chance to meet them while we were exposed to their training and And Chief Pankow, appreciate your leadership and wish all the candidates the best of luck and success. Any other reports? Alderman Bronte. Yes. I wanted to do a couple of things. One is to thank the Sisters of... the Rockford Alumni Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta as well as Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority Incorporated and the Jack and Jill of America, the Rockford branch. They had a pre-screening of The Color Purple. It was a great success and I encourage people, if you have not read the book, please read the book and also see the movie. I think it's an important work IN AMERICAN HISTORY. SO HOPEFULLY YOU WILL GET A CHANCE TO SEE THAT, THE ACTUAL MOVIE OPENS I BELIEVE ON DECEMBER 25TH. I ALSO WANTED TO ENCOURAGE YOU AND INVITE YOU ALL TO THE KWONZA CELEBRATION. IT WILL BE HELD DECEMBER 30TH FROM 11 TO 3 AT THE AFRICAN AMERICAN RESOURCE CENTER AT BOOKER. THANK YOU. JUST SO I GOT THAT RIGHT, DECEMBER 30TH, 11 TO 3? YES. THANK YOU. Okay, thank you other reports. Thank you Next we will move right along We have appointments laid over we have seven appointments that are up this evening We have appointment of Ken Oliver to the community action agency board for a term expiring December 2026 appointment fills a vacant slot in the client sector position and We have appointment two, Joan Velazquez to the Community Relations Commission for the expiring term ending November 2026. This appointment will fill a vacancy created by the passing of our friend Jay Ware. Three, appointment of James McDowell to the Community Relations Commission for the term expiring August 2024. This appointment will fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Brett Owens. number four is a reappointment of Scott Byer to the electrical board for a term expiring December 2026 number five reappointment of Mark prim to the electrical board for term expiring December 2026 number six reappointment of Ryan Marshall to the mechanical board for a term expiring December 2028 and Number seven, appointment of Simone Cameron to the Rockford Housing Authority Board for a term expiring August 2024. This appointment will fill the vacancy created by the resignation of me, Angela Dixon. We have those seven items before us. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a note to Ms. Velasquez and Mr. McDowell. I oppose the appointments not because of them, but I've always been opposed to the existence of this committee on a philosophical basis. I think people know that. They disagree with the existence of the committee. I obviously can't continue Supporting populating that committee being consistent. So no disrespect to the two candidates They're good candidates, but do not agree with the existence of the Commission. Thank you. Thank you any other discussion clerk Could you please call the roll jerky Logan? timber frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman and Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Bailey? Bonnie? Item 1, 14 ayes. Item 2 and 3, 13 ayes. 1 no. Items 4 through 7, 14 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to motions and resolutions. We'll go to the Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, committee recommends approval of an application and acceptance of a grant award from the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, DCEO, tourism attractions grant for the Davis Park Master Plan implementation. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Aye. Logoman Toomer Frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 14 eyes. Thank you next we will go to We have nothing under code and regulation. So we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you. I'm Number one, the committee recommends approval of a bid for citywide inlet repairs to DPI construction for an estimated annual cost of $300,000 based on unit pricing. It is a one-year contract with four possible extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered a contract renewal only. The funding sources, the street division operating budget and the CIP general fund. Number two, the committee recommends approval of a bid for the Alpine Dam Rehabilitation Phase 2 to DPI construction in the amount of $2,765,432.10. This is estimated to be completed by September 30, 2024. The funding source is the CIP General Fund. 3. The Committee recommends approval of the Board of Construction Engineering Agreement for the Downtown Streetscape Main Street to H.R. Green in the amount of $90,505. The project is estimated to be completed by June 28, 2024, and the funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number four, committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the downtown streetscape to DPI construction in the amount of $452,424.55. It is estimated to be completed by June 20, 2024, and the funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. 5. The Committee recommends approval of the RFP for material testing services to geocon professional services for an estimated annual cost of $200,000 based on unit pricing. There is a one-year contract with four one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments will be considered a contract with only the funding sources, the 1% infrastructure sales tax and the motor fuel tax funds. Number six, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contracts with police communication radio upgrade components to Rock River Services in the amount of $53,410. Rock River Services is the authorized reseller of Motorola Solutions mobile radio systems in our area and has provided similar equipment in the past and currently maintains that equipment. The funding source is the fiscal year 2023 Police Department operating budget. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of a joint purchasing contract for firefighting turnout gear to Delta Fire and Safety for an estimated amount of $225,000 based on unit pricing. It is a one-year contract. The contract pricing was obtained through the Houston-Galveston Area Council Cooperative Purchasing Agreement that was competitively bid. The funding sources the fire department operating budget. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for loose equipment and supplies to air one equipment in the amount of $50,000. The loose equipment and related supplies include self-contained breathing apparatus, masks, lenses, components, replacement nozzles, hose, hand tools, in addition to Extriction equipment. The loose equipment and supplies will be purchased from January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024. The funding sources the capital equipment and the fire department operating budget. Number nine the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the modification of the EMP grant award from the Illinois Emergency Management Agency in the amount of forty two thousand nine hundred and forty eight dollars and seventy three cents and the grant requires a cost match in the same amount which is already included as part of a budget salary the grant term is from october 1 2022 through september 30 2025. these funds will be used to pay a portion of the already budgeted salary of the individual designated as a city of rockford emergency management director 10. The Committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Office of Head Start Early Head Start Continuation Application Grant Award for a period from April 1, 2024 through March 31, 2025. Head Start is also seeking approval of the Self-Assessment Report, Self-Assessment Work Plan, and Program Goals. The grant does require a non-federal cost match of $2,148,597 The city of Rockville received the below amounts to provide services by approximately 5.1 million for Head Start program operations 53,000 for Head Start training and technical assistance Approximately 3.3 million dollars for early Head Start program operations and $50,000 524 hours for the early Head Start training and technical assistance. I Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the contract renewal for medical stop-loss insurance 2024 to Tokyo Marine of Houston, Texas for contract amount rates of $25.09 per employee per month for single enrollment and $90.49 per employee per month for family enrollment. This is an 18% increase as compared to 2023. The total estimated annual premium is $1,016,194 based on current number of health insurance participants. The contract duration is one year and the funding source is the health insurance fund. Number 12 the committee recommends approval of 2022 budget surplus plan number one is the public infrastructure for Auburn Street neighborhoods at thirteen point four million dollars. Number two is replaced fire station ten and redeveloped form of Magnus shopping center site ten million dollars number three Homeowner rehab program at one million dollars number four. It's the fund pending legal claims at two million dollars number five is Davis Park three million dollars and number six is the fire department and Communication system and radios at $2.5 million. Number 13 is renewal of contract for workers' compensation excess coverage 2024 to Safety National Casualty Corporation for contract amount rates with a premium based on annual estimated payroll of $99,606,516 at .392 per 100 dollars of payroll for a total estimated annual premium of $238,000 $259. This contract is one year. The funding source is the Workers' Compensation Fund. I place these 13 matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. In discussing with the chair earlier, I'm going to ask that we... separate items 12 1 12 2 12 3 12 4 12 5 12 6 So that we can discuss the other items 1 through 11 and 13 first And then I have a feeling we'll have a more robust discussion over 12 1 2 3 4 5 and 6 and So with that, we will take items 1 through 11 and 13 first. Is there any discussion on those items? Alderman Frost. With respect to number 10, I just had a question. It appears that we expend the $2.1 million, and that investment then yields the approximately, I guess, $9 million articulated in items 1 through 4. Director Parham. Thank you for your question, Alderman Frost. So the $2.1 million in non-federal match that's required, we actually meet that requirement through in-kind that we receive through our collaboration with Rockford Public Schools. So it does not represent an initial expenditure on our end that then initiates the other funding. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions on items 1 through 11 and item 13? Clerk, could you please call the roll on items 1 through 11 and 13? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Frente. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Aye. 14 ayes. All right. Next, thank you. Next, we will move to item 12.1. That item is a public infrastructure for Auburn Street and neighborhoods at 13.4. Is there any discussion on item 12.1? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I would move to amend the committee recommendation under item 12, approval of the 2022 budget surplus plan as follows. Remove number one, Auburn Street reconstruction and neighborhood improvement, and replace it as follows. Item A, reestablishment. $5 million allocated toward the fire pension, B, $5 million allocated toward the police pension, and C, $3.4 million allocated to ward funds for residential road repair. Thank you. So just so I can repeat that, just so everyone has it, the way I understand it, you want to remove any reconstruction of Auburn Street and the neighborhood funds, and you want to replace it with $5 million for fire pension, $5 million for police pension, and actually I've said remove the neighborhood plan. Reduce an amount to the neighborhoods from the $6 million down to the $3.4. Did I repeat that accurately to you? I'm not sure. No, to remove the $13.4 million, replace it with $5 million each to police and fire pension, and $3.4 million to... the ward allocation for road repair right so just to repeat that right now we have 13.4 going to auburn street you want to pull that off correct we also have 6 million going to neighborhood streets so you want to reduce that down from 6 million to 3.4 so you want to put 5 million to police pension 5 million to fire pension and you want to have 3.4 million to neighborhood allocation correct okay Is there any discussion on that amendment? I'm sorry. Second. Sorry. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Alderman Frost. Thanks. Mayor, I'm just a little bit confused. With respect to the budget surplus, I don't see the item on there for the $6 million at already go or going to neighborhood roads i just want to make make it clear that if this is adding 3.4 to the six nope so if you recall the memo that you received on november 3rd of 2023 alderman frost uh recommendation one uh this uh is This is, I'll just read from it. This is an offset to the outstanding debt on the police district stations currently paid from the capital improvement plan and a one-time payment in the amount of $13.395,142 into the CIP. This would pay for the reconstruction of Auburn Street from roughly the roundabout all the way to Springfield Avenue. consistent with the corridor plan. Half of that cost, the $6 million, would be paid back to the CIP from the water fund. So we have to replace the 100-year-old water main. And what we were recommending is instead of the aldermen's... Amendment of 3.4. What we were recommending is let's redo Auburn Street Redo the 100-year water main redo the 400 lead service lines get the sidewalk slow the traffic reduce the accidents and the speed And add six million dollars to the neighborhood funds So this is actually a reduction of work by probably close to sixteen million dollars of road Just as many as you so with with your So the $6 million that is being taken from the CIP, that's for the water project only? So we're going to pay $13.4 million out of the water fund. And correct me where I'm wrong. I'm sorry, not water fund. Sorry. We're going to pay the $13.4 million, right, with the surplus. Six of that million, that's going to do the water main that's the 100-year-old water main. That is going to be paid back at $1 million per year for six years, which totals the $6 million payback. We stated, based on listening to all of you, that you wanted more money into neighborhoods. So we said we would put that additional $6 million into neighborhoods. Over six years? Over six years. So over that six years, you would have $19.4 million worth of road work being done. The amendment now would like $3.4 million of road work, neighborhood work, and $5 million for police pension, $5 million for fire pension. Am I missing something, Director Saunders or Director Haggard? No. Alderman Bonney. To clarify that, though, that was going to be neighborhood work staff directed versus alderman directed, correct? The clarification, so staff-directed versus aldermen, so everyone isn't amiss here. So we have, this council did, create what we call neighborhood prioritization, where staff, I won't say chooses or directs, well, directs is probably a good word. They don't choose. They use the data based on the worst streets in all of our wards and places those funds where it's needed most as opposed to where it's not. Me as when I was an alderman where I would want any other discussion on that men. We have a motion We have a second alderman Bonnie So with those clarifications now now made my reason for recommending this is just giving thought to what's been proposed on how we spend the surplus and what hasn't been proposed and And I think so many times in these chambers, we've heard us talk about the police and fire pension liability as a elephant in the room and a potentially financially crippling situation that could occur for the city down the road. And to have it totally absent from these, from how we might choose to spend the, surplus just seems contrary to those continual statements and I just think that it is my understanding is it will produce over over the course of time from 2025 until 2041 additional approximately eight million dollars in savings So it and it and again, it's it's too it is too secure the promised retirement funds of the men and women who risked their lives and you know put their lives on the line for the residents of the city of Rockford every every day and I I just think that The Auburn Street project is and I don't want to retread too much ground from previous meetings but you know has been in the CIP in year nine and It has Been stated many times that it could attract federal and or state funding and I You know that the timing had just been poor in the past and we had got gotten unlucky But we could attract outside funds for that project Rather than jump it to the front of the list over other road projects But I don't think that we're gonna attract any outside funds for our police and fire pension liability and that that's our responsibility and ours alone and I Just I just think it would be the preferable use. Thank you Well, let's say hands. I'll go alderman Durkee and then I'm gonna come back this way and I think there's three over here Well, thank you. Your Honor. Yes, sir I'm in favor of this amendment as I spoke when this came up last time I think most people they see a surplus in their budget and They look for ways to pay down their visa, mortgage, different things of that nature. The city has obligations. I understand we have roads. We also have a CIP process that handles that and has been doing so fine. And the city staff and Kyle have done a great job at doing that. I do get concerned with debt. And we see other governmental bodies, namely our U.S. Congress and our own state, that basically will spend every dollar. It's not sexy to pay down debt. There's no photo op, there's no ribbon cutting, there's no nothing. But it is important. It doesn't sound like much, maybe $10 million. It's a lot of money. If that money gains 5% over 10 years, that turns into $16.2 million. If we elect a financially conservative Congress for once... We get an 8% return that turns into twenty one point five million dollars over ten years It turns into real money And so I am in favor of using all of these funds in this manner There are some emergent things that are there. Well in the fire department the station As it exists now, I know I'm talking about another matter, but I think emergent things and paying down debt are critical and And so I think the wisest stewardship of the money is to address our debt, our long-term obligations for the citizens of Rockford. Building a road, I understand roadways are important. But I think at this point in time, it's a better use of our money to... pay down debt with 3.4 million dollars I mean If those of you have their phones and their emails blow up the citizens are annoyed that there is a surplus a little bit They want to know some of them want to know why we just don't lower property taxes and give it back to them I think a 3.4 million dollar Investment right away into their own roadways in front of their own houses is a pretty reasonable and You know use of the taxpayers monies that they see directly That it's their own road. It's their money. So it's a taxpayer money. It's not ours, not the city's so that's why I think this is a better stewardship of Line item number one. Thank you. Your honor. Thank you before I respond. We have a Alderman Bailey is next. Yeah. Thank you. Your honor. I certainly appreciate and respect remarks my colleagues. I But this is all about investment based upon what this reconstruction is going to do with the lead pipes. And I'm certainly concerned about the citizens as a whole in our community. The departments have done a good job of explaining the payback on the pensions. So I think that from my perspective, the community wants to see this project move forward. I respect what everybody has said. but we have to start looking at investment on the west side so i'm opposed to this motion that's before us thank you uh older woman makes it do you have your hand rings older woman meeks thank you Director Haggerty, can you help me understand the chart that you created detailing the $10 million contribution and the $40 million contribution? Am I understanding it right that if we were to make that $10 million contribution that it would be a reduction over time of a little over $2 million? Is that correct? So if we were to make an additional $10 million contribution now, we would immediately see a $760,000 reduction in our contribution requirement. That would grow over time and it follows the same curve as the original projection. To 1.5 million by the time we're required to meet our 90% funded target the the sum of the reduction over time is 18 million dollars, so we're investing the 10 and that grows to 18 over the time period Thank you, and I had someone over here was alderman Beach. Thank Your Honor. I tend to want to agree with that the payment on the debt, but help me understand, as we have looked at the fact that at a certain point in time out, our property taxes and the pensions aren't going to be the same. Otherwise, it's all going to go to pensions unless something else is figured out. How does this $10 million to the pension help solve that problem, or is it just pushing out another year or two further? Sure. I would say that we might get another year out of it. One of the reasons why that wasn't in the original recommendation is that the reduction that we would see in year one is less than half of a percent of our total general fund budget. So it doesn't have a significant impact on our operating budgets going forward. $10 million is a significant amount of money, absolutely. Very small in comparison to our total pension liability I believe that in total we would we might get another year before We hit that point with property taxes. It may happen in the same year and this projection does I just want to point out that It assumes that we meet our actuarial assumptions of deaths, disabilities, rate of return assumption every single year going forward. It's a projection just to kind of give council an idea of where that's going, but what we will actually have to contribute will be based on what actually happens. In our plan experience and we had a significant jump in our pension contribution for 2024 because we had negative returns in 2022 so any one bad year Can throw that whole trajectory as well as the the estimations of savings off considerably? So thank you. So the ten Million that we put in right now is not going to stop the contributions that we are obligated to pay In 24 or 25 and so forth that still stays the same it will it will it will shrink a small amount but it will continue to grow at the same rate and it will still be a Jaw dropping situation by the time we get to 2040 then one last question of course if this 10 million is invested in this debt and Do I understand that at the end of the thing, in 2040, 41, we will have gained $18 million as a result of it? Yeah, we would invest $10 million and we would gain $18 million as a result of the investment, yes. Why is that a bad deal? It's not a bad deal. Absolutely not. But I think that we have to balance priorities here. And looking at long-term what that contribution today would do to our general fund projections overall, it doesn't significantly move the needle either on the immediate projection of where our general fund goes or the overall funded ratio of our pensions. And I think we have some, you know, public works staff has made – Compelling case for why we need to invest in Auburn Street. Thank you. Thank you Alderman timber and then others Thank You mayor. Yes in relation to the topic of Applying for grants in the past on Auburn Street Whether that was on a state or a federal level or both Have we on those grants have are they could we be? Add to those grants or have we applied for those grants without any? Matching money or any money put forth is it just we've been asking for the money And that's it I guess my point being that I know through certain grants It is more competitive if we offer up some of our own money to have skin in the game per se and then Have that listed on the grant director Saunders. I Alderman Thunberg would totally agree with your approach. When you look at the grants that we've applied for, we're always looking to bring money to the table as match, and I think that's certainly been one of the key reasons why we've secured so many grant projects as of late. Auburn Street, when you looked at the actual competitive grants that we applied for through the state, We were bringing 30% match out of our water fund. When you looked at the congressionally directed applications, we were asking for 80% of that product to be funded. That was the minimum that those programs were required. We were bringing match to the table on all the grant applications that we were submitting, and those were predominantly just the water side. Transportation is a whole other monster where, as I described last week, we're really weighing does it make sense to federalize or make this a state standard, just understanding the additional costs the project would result in. So going forth, if they say that they want a 30% match or a 20% match, if we were to offer more than that, is that typically done on some of these grant writing processes? So every grant opportunity has different match percentages. Typically we see 80-20, some we see 50-50, but just out of experience when you look at the grants that we've applied for, we're always bringing more than the minimum, just so that we stand out in the review team's mind. Okay. Have we applied for a 50-50 grant before on this project? so on auburn street we've only applied for the water main side and those have been 30 and 20 matches and again just weighing auburn street is a local road so it doesn't necessarily require state and federal oversight you know it's not a state route so we have been very cautious in applying for the state and federal grants for the roadway improvements just because it really drives up you know the project cost it could be one and a half to two times what we would pay locally So for next year, Director Haggerty, are we expecting or are you anticipating a surplus of any sort? Yes. It's in every budget discussion that we monthly have. That won't be finalized in – That what the surplus is will not be finalized until the audits complete which would be May June of next year But yes, we are at this time projecting a surplus not only due to revenues received in excess of budget but also Expenditures under budget and I won't hold you to it any ballpark figure. I I I We won't even receive our last sales tax distribution until March, so it would be way too early for me to give you any sort of ballpark estimate. Right. Yeah, and I know some of you probably see another amendment, and I'm not gonna get ahead of myself on this, Mayor, so bear with me. You know, there is kind of a hedge of a bet here. You know, I do appreciate grants coming in, that could be possible for this project. And with an additional amount of money that we've been able to allocate in the application of these grants, and then being able to put on another, say, three, three and a half million on top of that, I would think would make a very competitive grant application for this project. I do see the need to get it done, and Mayor, we've even had conversations on this. I haven't been opposed to this project. I wanted the due diligence done on it and the project correctly vetted, as with all projects. So, you know, with the motion, so with the motion that is on here, on the table right now, Yes, and it is where individuals, our own residents, when they know they have payments staring them right in the face, large payments coming down the pike, the last thing they do is go spend money on something else. I can see this in principle. You know, when there's talk about it, it won't make that big of a dent. You think of all the people out there in our community that make money. 50 hundred dollar payments to their mortgage each month You know is it really gonna make a dent that big no maybe not But it's the principle of it no pun intended on the word principle, but it's just chipping away Gradually you know I don't I don't think that 18 million from 10 million is anything to fret about and director Haggerty Boy, I have so many questions, but I'll spare any That's a whole night the seven hundred and sixty thousand dollars that you said would we would? Save on our next payment is that each year? We're going to be saving seven hundred and sixty or is that just on our next it would our Annual savings would start at seven hundred and sixty and grow into up through 2040 up to 1.5 million so am I wrong here in thinking that Mayor, we were talking about the $1 million that would be paid back from the water fund or from the water department into the CIP, which then would be allocated to roads in the neighborhoods. Would we be – so essentially in our first year alone, we'd be saving $760,000 with that $10 million payment. Correct. And then the next year – Not seven night. It goes up to 1.5. She said yes, correct. Okay Let me just qualify that by saying our pension contribution will increase $760,000 less so we will still have increases in our pension contributions They will just rise at a at a lower rate again assuming that we hit every single assumption and that our actuaries make when they're doing these projections. What is that assumption? Our rate of return assumption is 7.1%. So we'd need a very conservative Congress if Alderman Durkee's correct. Correct, yes. Okay. Any other questions? And we would need not to follow the ESG method of investing as well as in 2022. All right. Okay. All right. Administrator Cagnone was going to touch on he was trying to get in word in edgewise And I was blocking him when we were talking about when alderman Toonberg was talking about grants as well as congressionally allocated funds Mr.. Cagnone. Thank you your honor, and I'll be brief. I you know just to I to point out why our Public Works team has been so successful in securing grants has been flexibility and a big kudos to the city council. I think when you go after grants, part of it is aligning your grant application to what the grant provider is looking for. So when they're looking for investment in downtown, we went after the proposed Madison Street because we felt we could secure that. and then our team did. When there was grant opportunities within the opportunity zones only, we applied for Seminary Street and were able to secure that. When, you know, local representative is looking for investment within his district, we were able to align it with Alpine Dam. So that flexibility that Council has provided our public works team to go after projects that best fit the grant has Probably had just as much to do with it If not more than also the match amount to alderman toomberg's point In regards to how do we put ourselves just a little bit more? Competitive than what we believe everybody else is going to be submitting as it relates to You know a matching funds, so I just wanted to add that Thank you. Your Honor. Thank you alderman Rose Then then I'll go to Vogue men then Bailey then dirty Over vetted I don't know what the reason is for I'll just make that statement very clear. I do think it's important for people to realize that I This isn't just taking money from the leftover dollars in the ARPA funds and just throwing it away. I mean, like Alderman Bailey had mentioned, this is an investment. And I think it's really important for us to understand a few things, is that when we invested similar amounts of money into South Main Street, we started to see some significant economic development. that has occurred since then both in residential and in Commercial that have occurred We've seen investment in North Main Street after that project was done a state project that was Significant and you know want to be the bearer of bad news or bring up anything But I mean Auburn is a pretty significant business district and Those business owners have been paying thousands, hundreds of thousands of dollars for years in property taxes. They deserve to have streets that aren't closed down when a water main breaks. They deserve to not have to close their businesses when a road gets blocked and all of a sudden they don't have any traffic coming into those businesses. And I think also the fact that, you know, You know the amount of accidents that are occur there. I know just off of Ridge Avenue. You know, people call me all the time saying, you know what, what can we do to make it safe on that corner? I, you know, I almost just saw someone got hit or Kilburn Street where there's numerous acts of accidents that happen in that intersection and. We say to them, hey, we're working on a project. We have one ready to go. And it's just a matter of city council making the right decision for safety in our community. And so I think that there's a lot more to it than saying this money is just going to waste or that it's not a project that's needed. I'll be honest, I agree. I think putting money towards debt is a great idea. I just don't have people calling me off the phone all the time saying, hey, I'm really worried about the debt in Rockford. Most of the time they're calling me about potholes and roads. In fact, 90% of the calls that I get are about roads. And so when we're looking to save $2 million over the next 17 years, versus putting $16 million into our roads, I think it's pretty clear that Rockfordians are really about replacing our roads and putting that investment into that. And so I don't know about you, but that's what I get phone calls on pretty regularly from residents. I think it's important that we address those needs. And I also would compare it to something like the Alpine Dam. If Alpine Dam had a leak in it, we'd fix it. we just take care of it um and we and we did actually we put forth money to do that auburn street has a hundred year old water main it's leaking it's breaking it breaks every single year let's take care of it let's get it done so that people don't have to worry about that that issue and our area businesses don't have to worry about closing every single time a water main breaks thank you alderman logeman Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, I think Auburn Street is a fine project. I ultimately I think it will be funded. I'm happy to support The project moving forward, but I was talking with director Haggerty briefly today And I mentioned the word he be GBS one one of the things that gives me the he be GBS is looking at these graphs moving forward in the you know in the next five ten to fifteen years and remember a couple weeks ago with the budget meeting yeah alderman toonberg and I made a joke but our heart was kind of leaping through our throat when we saw in 2031 where the property taxes are going to be meeting the pension payments And just when I was you know, like running for a different office I remember meeting with the mayor of Peoria and talking about the That city of Peoria a hundred percent of their property taxes right now go to funding pensions And that's something that I don't want to give future You know City Council's I understand that this is a you know, it's it's ten million dollars There's a huge pension liability but you know I do think it is a big deal investing ten million dollars to get eighteen million dollars back and You know again, I think Auburn will get funded. I've had a couple conversations with even teachers at Auburn. One last week said you better fund Auburn and I had two teachers in the last two weeks talking about to Alderman Durkee's point, what are we doing with this surplus if we're not funding pensions? So I think ultimately this is a very good problem to have but when I speak to my constituents, You know they want to feel safe They do want to diminish tax burden. They want to make sure that we are looking out for the best interests of our community so Again willing to entertain this amendment. I think it's there's worthy ideas in here Ultimately, I think Auburn will get funded in the very near future But again, this is a good a good problem to have ultimately Thank You mayor. Okay, I Alderman Bailey I have then alderman Durkee and now alderman Frost and Tumberg alderman Bailey. Thank you I appreciate all the discussion that we're having and I make no apologies for investment on the west side It's important that we pay down the debt. I'm not a financial expert, but what Kerry Haggard is share with me I'm confident that the city will resolve the pension issue. This is about investment on Auburn Street investment folks When we look at the negligence of investment on the West Side, we ought to be embarrassed. We ought to be embarrassed because on this floor, we're creating confusion in the community. I had a resident approach me thinking that Auburn Street is going to be reduced to two lanes. We don't even have any plans. So with this discussion, it's healthy. But we're creating more confusion by talking about pension and investment on this issue. Auburn Street has got to happen. Alderman Durkee One question for miss Haggerty the Assumption that you're making on your graph I believe is that we take this ten million dollars and then reduce our obligation according to an actuarial table and that dilutes the impact of the ten million dollars of course is there a My assumption is we can work with the actuary and actually change the trajectory of the payments What if we change the payments ending in? 2013 I mean 2033 or something and kept our current payments at their level So if we don't reduce our payments now and keep our payments the 10 million dollars actually has a significant impact over that time and So, in a sense, next year, if we reduce our payment by $761,000, we're basically diluting the $10 million by $1 million, more or less. So what can an actuarial assessment do to preserve that $10 million and not reduce our payments? That's where the impact comes, financially. Director Haggard. Our actuarial projection assumes that we continue to fund based on the statutory minimum as outlined in the pension code, as we have historically. Council has never elected to contribute more than the actuarially required contribution, so that is the assumption that they used. We could certainly do, and I could put together a projection with tools that the actuary gave me, we can project what it would look like to contribute additional funds every year above and beyond the minimum required contribution. Council could do that today if they chose to do, you could choose to do that now with our operating budgets in any given year, contribute above the minimum requirement and that would have a long-term impact over time on our funding at the end of, or funding requirements at the end of that funding period. But we, I mean, we can put those projections together, but, you know, obviously the contributions have always followed the minimum state requirement, and that is the assumption that we're using going forward. So basically, the actuarial table as it exists can't be altered, right? To preserve the impact of this 10 million. No I can I can put projections together that show us making additional Contributions above the minimum every year and so council how that affects our contributions at the end of the funding cycle Right, so we have a current table so for instance Next year we pay the 761 million dollars We pay the extra and then that's that's how we see the benefit of this ten million dollars By reducing our front-end payments. I agree with you you dilute the ten million dollar impact But that's not the intent the intent is to continue to pay basically not reduce these front-end payments is to keep and to keep these payments up and not taking advantage of an early payoff to then reduce the future payments. It's like paying down a mortgage. You pay into the principal on your mortgage. Your mortgage payments don't go down. They stay the same. However, much more of your principal is paid and less of the interest is. and then you pay your mortgage off earlier. So this is the concept that I'm looking for and how that can be done with the actuary to take advantage of this payment. So otherwise, I concede your point. It really, it's tough to do. So that's what I'm looking for. Director Agarty? Certainly. That was, you know, it wasn't clear to me at the time the request was made that we were looking to do it. Change the way that we fund pensions permanently But if if you would like to see what it looks like to contribute on an annual basis something more than the minimum required State contribution we can certainly put that together and I'm sorry that I fight if I was unclear Maybe one more comment as many as you about funding for the west side of Rockford West side of Rockford receives the majority of the federal grants in the city of Rockford and The west side of Rockford has enjoyed the redevelopment of South Main the redevelopment of West State We put a police station there. So the west side of Rockford is being invested in there's no aldermen on the City Council That are ignoring the west side of Rockford. Thanks Next we have alderman frost. Thank you on that last comment. I was gonna all them and Durkee stole my thunder Since since I've been on the City Council the South Main project has been completed with the help of IDOT, and it was far, far in excess of $13 million. The North Main Street project was completed at a cost that far exceeded that. The West 8th Street project was completed. So we're talking about three major, major arteries with the participation of IDOT, They were complete on the west side. The Morgan Street Bridge is 42 million dollars I don't I guess we could split it down the middle My point is I don't know why folks have to always make this comments west side versus east side I think we're beyond that I mean the Coleman Yards the largest project in the history of Rockford at four hundred and six million dollars on the west side and SO I DON'T UNDERSTAND FOLKS SAYING THAT WE DON'T INVEST ENOUGH IN THE WEST SIDE. WHAT WE NEED TO INVEST IS WHERE THERE ARE PROBLEMS WITH ROADS. I initially was rather surprised when I met with Mr. Saunders and his staff, and I learned of Auburn Street being with the question or the paradigm that, you know, if we had extra money, what project is on the shelf that's ready? Because as others have noticed or indicated that, you know, it wasn't the CIP, but it wasn't top of the list. And then Mr. Saunders provided me with a corridor study that was done on Auburn Street. And although I really disagree with a lot of it, like for instance the accident issue. You want to talk about accidents? Come to Spring Creek and Mulford. You want to talk about accidents? Come to Spring Creek and Perryville. These are accidents where there's serious accidents. I don't care about property damage accidents. I looked at the study, the number of property damage accidents that occur on Auburn Street. Compared to the two fatalities on Springbrook that have happened recently so in my mind a property that you know numbers can be Construed in any in any way you want Mr. Saunders, I just a question for you. I believe you indicated that there are Three water mains under Auburn is that correct director Saunders Alderman frost me look at that stretch I believe we have Single water main that runs on Auburn then it goes to a parallel water main I believe west of Central Avenue and that's where there's one water main on both sides of the street effectively in just to follow if if one of those was to Break or lapse in the wintertime season and we had to do a repair or replacement What's the approximate cost we see of when we do those repairs in the city? I? So the breaks specifically on Auburn Street that we've had, the big ones, right, that took businesses out for an extended period of time, I believe they averaged about $50,000 per break. And so with respect to the overall $13.4 million, I'm correct that approximately $6 million of it is for the lead service water lines and the water main? Correct. I guess that's something that... gave me, I guess, a reconsideration on this issue is that we are, just like the pensions, we are obligated to replace the lead service lines And I know our president president Biden just extended the time parameters for the city of Chicago I didn't see Rockford on there and hopefully it comes but we are under an obligation to replace those and this project Isn't really a thirteen million dollar road as much as it is a six million dollar Project for water and I guess another seven million dollar road project and So that has somewhat changed my position on it. With respect to the pensions, I agree with Alderman Durkee and others that if you had an extra $10 million... to throw at something, it can make a difference. But again, I don't know, we're never getting out of paying down our, we're never getting out of paying our pension costs. It's always going to be here. And just like our CIP, hopefully, we just passed a $300 million CIP, we always have a CIP in our plans, and we always are going to be replacing, investing, projects, roads, Alpine Dam, things that we, in our city's infrastructure, that we have an obligation for the safety and welfare of our residents. So they may be at opposite ends, but they're both going to take place. I mean, we approved tonight $14 million in vouchers in 2019. and for our vouchers so if we really want to take a crack at you know spending it's less money which i think sometimes we try to do we ought to really look and dive deeper into some of our city expenses i think we try to keep them down as much as we possibly can but costs go up and we you know we need turnout gear for our fire department for them to be safe right we can't we can't we can't eliminate that we can't eliminate buying trucks or cars um for our staff um So I'm a little bit of a loggerhead on this because I get the point that all them and Bonnie and turkey are making with respect to Reallocating it toward toward pensions and and I get the point of all that all them and asking initially Why Auburn Street and and I I was that way myself, but again, I guess Looking at that and looking at other projects that we that we can't do right now today as much as I've cried about in Alpine Road we're working on part of it now with the state and and I know the cost as far exceeds 13 million dollars And I'm hopeful that other roads that are busy that have high car counts Don't get neglected and are not There are invested in the future But with respect to this one, I guess Mr. Saunders, I I appreciate you providing me after the fact with what the quarter study and I think that that that I Does make a difference. Thank you. Thank you If I'm doing this correctly alderman toonberg, did you have another comment? Yeah, I appreciate alderman Durkee and clarifying on the mortgage that's what I essentially was kind of touching on as well and and That if payments do not change and you keep putting some money towards the principal you will pay off your mortgage early so there is some similar lines here To one of the aldermen's comments on the two-lane Auburn going down to two lanes. I've seen the plans and so This is probably going back maybe a year and a half ago. I saw the plans on Auburn Street I appreciated the plans on Auburn Street. I appreciated the road diet and And so I know that this is a project that needs to be done at some point and or has been talked about being done. So it's been in queue and so yes, I understand that how all of a sudden it went from this to that and all that, but it's the vetting on the project and some other comments made, what's there to vet? Our job, especially on the Finance Committee, is to look at these. And vetting a project is just that. It's taxpayer dollars we're using here. I am never, ever going to stand down from doing due diligence on a project, vetting a project. To me, it may take five minutes or it may take me a month. or longer, whatever time permits. It may take somebody shorter to come to a conclusion. That's their thing. But if it takes me longer, all of a sudden I start getting accused of being against a project because I'm not Advocating for it because I haven't come to the conclusion yet It's not fair to taxpayer dollars to not do your homework on projects such as this and a plethora of other Other projects that come before us each week. I will never I be tapped on the head and told to sit down, shut up, don't ask questions, and just vote for this project. I don't mean this project specifically. Maybe I do. But there are other projects as well that this has fallen into where aldermen are pressured, intimidated, what have you. Sit down, shut up, don't ask questions, and just vote. That is not doing taxpayers any favors for whatever special interests or whatever are moving beyond there, behind there, you name it, whatever. I will never be accused. Well, I guess you can make the accusation. I will never sit here and say I didn't do my homework on a project. I hope to never have to say that. So if you don't do it, you should. Are you better? Because if one of these projects goes south, the first thing people are going to ask our residents and our taxpayers, they're going to say, didn't you see this coming? How come you didn't do your homework? How come you didn't ask questions? So if one of these projects does go south, I hope to never be accused of that, accurately accused, I should say, or guilty of that. But I have had constituents reach out to me that have said to me, pay down the debt. I have to live within my means and my household. The city should too. If they know they got payments coming, like I do in my household, the last thing I'm going out and doing is spending money. So I have to take those constituents seriously. I have to take their angle into account. And so when we do our due diligence on this in our homework, we're taking both sides of the equation into account. I'm not doing my constituents a service. If they come to me with that kind of angle, that angle to it, and I basically shrug them off, say, no, I made up my decision. I made my decision. I'm not going to even bother to look at that. That's not what people elect us for. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Bonney, you had additional comments. Thank you, Mayor. You're welcome. So I believe it was Alderman Durkee and probably others referenced the CIP. And, you know, it is a, to Director Saunders' credit and all of his staff, it is a well-thought-out document, and it is – brought to us every year and we make adjustments every year and You know, I my reason for making this amendment is in 2021 when several of us first joined the council by 2022, I think a few more were here, you know Auburn wasn't even in the five-year CIP. It was back on in year nine and I still don't see any The compelling reason for Auburn to now just because we have 30 million dollars to spend for Auburn to Budge to the front of the line when there are worthy road projects in there You know many of them had there may be reasons why some can't advance now and perhaps Auburn can but it There are just in the five-year plan numerous other projects that are that That are people all over the city would like to see done and on all of our words across the city and the And as there are lead pipes still all over the city I think it comes back to well, maybe not all over the city, but all over much of the city So it comes back to in my mind. We have the ability to attract funds from outside sources and For Auburn and we don't have the ability to track Nobody is going to take care of this Again, our men and women and police and fire who put their lives on the line every day if we don't take care of that pension obligation nobody else is going to do it and We to have that be absent from from a list of 30 of how to spend a 30 million dollar a unexpected Windfall just doesn't seem right and to again go back to this idea that if you're You know, does it it's not not to say that the Auburn project isn't worthy but all these projects in the CIP every one of them are worthy projects and to to add to the list of Investments in the west side they've been happening for decades now Deservedly so because of past neglect but to add to the list of those that weren't mentioned the federal courthouse Embassy Suites the Lowe's distribution center Springfield Springfield Avenue I mean in addition to all those that were already mentioned and I just you know, I I just I don't think that we can ignore again. We keep talking about we keep talking continually in this chamber about, you know, this, you know, that how serious this pension obligation is. And then we have the opportunity to invest 10 million to realize 18 million. And we're not going to do it. I can't support that. Thank you. Thank you. We're close to done with all the men who had their hands raised, so I'll just respond to a couple of items I've heard. One in supporting, and I would agree, our amazing men and women who are in our public safety departments, police and fire specifically. Since I've been here, just so aldermen are aware, we've increased the police budget by 46%. We've increased the fire budget by 60%. In this plan, 25% of the dollars goes to those departments. And I'd stand behind it and do the same thing each and every year. If they ask me for something, I make every effort to get that done. Two, I've heard comments about building a road and my home budget. We're not building a road. We would be rebuilding a road. Far different. And it would be more like spending money on a leaky roof, but this happens to be dangerous, have potentially unsafe drinking water to 400 households and businesses, and having ongoing maintenance expenses. I personally would pay that off first and stop the bleeding to avoid debt that I already have budgeted to pay down each and every year. As for pensions, many of us had the amazing opportunity to hear our local legislators today talk about that they do have a piece of legislation, and I would like to see if it can be moved. I will not say I'm naive and think that they will get all of it done, but I have faith. I have faith in folks like Stottleman in the Senate, like Vela, who's bringing the legislation forward in the House to talk about our pensions, to see if they can reduce that. $10 million is nothing to sneeze at. It certainly will make an impact when it comes to pensions. I think if you look at the graphs, I may be off by 100,000 here or there, but not much. In 2040, whoever she is that sits in this seat is going to, because of the move we make tonight, if the Alderman's amendment goes forward, I don't know if they'll be sitting there saying, you know, man, this pension payment could have been $90 million. I'm so thankful to God that it's $88.5 million instead. I just don't know if that's the impact that they'll be looking at. I would like to think that the investments that we're making throughout the entire city in this, they'll be thankful for. I look at, I heard earlier that, you know, residents would like the $3 million of road work. I'm sure they would. I personally think they would like more of like the $6 million of road work in the . I think they'd also more like the $13.4 million along Auburn Street. I think the 400 residents and businesses that would get their lead service lines replaced with an average cost of anywhere between $5,000 and $12,000 would think that that's a significant benefit to them directly. I would say I've heard the word windfall. Just say we all recognize we're not talking about a windfall We're talking about the amazing staff that are here that have helped create this I'll give you a little bit of luck for sure and I'm happy for it but it's sound budgeting with all of your help reducing expenses and and seeing increased revenues. It's not a, oh my gosh, where did this come from? This was a planned effort to live within our means and see a surplus. And we did. We got luck too, and I'm taking it. And we'll have this. It's such a good problem, as an alderman mentioned. It is. It's so good that we're going to get to talk about it in a couple months when we have another surplus from 2023. I just look at this and I think I've been hearing about debt. We've also helped pay down the TIF debt that we inherited. We also created a reserve fund, got that reserve fund approved, and then we funded the reserve fund. And actually, and we haven't even discussed it in any of the discussions I've heard, there's a $40 million surplus. We're talking about $32 million. The other $8 million is going to even further that reserve fund more than what our policy requires. So we're putting an additional $8 million into that reserve fund. And then next year we'll get to talk more about it. I just look at this thinking $19 million worth of work. We haven't touched on the fact that that's going to put hard-working men and women to work during those jobs. You look at Auburn Street, that job's an entire summer, if not a summer and a half, of folks going to work every single day. You look at all of these projects and we'll get through them all and eager to have the conversation on each one But I give credit to staff for how we got here. I don't think this was by happenstance I think these are Driven by and large by resident input alderman input and data that we have at our hands that is there other discussion alderman to Think I promise Take one last question director Haggerty. I Say a $10 million payment to the police and fire pension, five each. What are the chances, financially, we would be able to afford Auburn Street? Because, again, like I touched on to the 13th Ward Alderman, I have seen the plans, and I know this is something that needs to get done ultimately. What do you think? I mean, chances of... money next year being able to Provide for this project in the absence of money that would have been put towards the pensions So there has been talk of hey Why can't we put this project on the docket for next year or the year following? So yes, am I asking for the best of both worlds? I It feels like in a roundabout way you're asking me to tell you what our surplus is going to be next year again. While the projections where we sit right now would say that, it is way too premature for me to say that we will be there. That was a good shot, though. You gave it your all. Okay, we're still on 12-1. Any other further discussion on 12-1? Good news is we got five more of these after this. Please call the roll on 12-1. Turkey. This is... Correct. Yes. And let me just phrase that. Sorry. Thank you for bringing that up. I appreciate that. I should be more clear. We have a motion and a second from Alderman Bonney's amendment that would take Auburn Street off. remove the 13.4 million from Auburn Street and put five million to police pension five million to fire pension and Instead of six million and word and to neighborhood streets This would be three point four million into board allocation So and I'm sorry that is the amendment before us you want to start all over with their key just so everyone has it Logoman Toonberg Ross Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Arios Meeks Bailey five eyes nine nose Okay, so good news is we get to have the discussion again. We now have item 12 one before us Is there any discussion on item 12 one clerk? Could you please call the roll on item 12 one turkey? logan Toonberg frost Tarina Prunty Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney, 12 Is, Tunos. Excellent. Next, 12-2. I'll just read it since we've probably forgotten what it was. Replace Fire Station 10 and redevelop former Magna Shopping Center site. Allocated $10 million. Is there a discussion? Alderman Beach. Yes. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to ask if we could either hold this out or lay it over. I've had significant conversations with the chief, even today for an hour before council, and there's a lot of questions I have that I'd like to have answered about the project before I lend my support to it. If that would be possible, I'd appreciate that. There's a motion to lay over? Yes. Is there a second? I have a second, sir. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? We would need a majority of council to lay that over Is that accurate clerk? Could you please call the roll? All right, sorry alderman Bonnie Sure, just for clarification both the current site on rural Street and the Magnus the proposed Magnus site are in your ward Olderman Beach. Yes both sites. Okay So we have a motion. We have a second to lay over the new potential new fire station. I'm Clerk, could you please call the roll on the layover? Logaman. Tunberg. Just layover. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. No. Groves. No. Beach. Aye. Barrios. No. Meeks. Bailey. No. No. Four ayes, ten noes. Good news. We're going to have that discussion again, too. Is... Item before us is 12-2, replace Fire Station 10 and redevelop former Magnus Shopping Center with an allocation of $10 million. Is there a further discussion? Alderman Beach. Thanks, Senator. Yes, I'd like to know then tonight before we vote exactly what that word means to redevelop the Magnus site, what the plans are there. Number two, what I saw in the way they're going to put the fire station, it's going to wreck that whole lot there because what I see as a rendering is going to be on the State Street side. I see that there's property that's owned – That's in litigation right now that could really help us if we had it. And that was not going to be completed here. There's an alleyway that runs back that could be helpful for the way the trucks come in and out. It may be possible to press move a business to make that more feasible. So I can't sit here tonight and vote when I have no idea what in the world you're going to do with it. And I think it's fair to the people of the 10th Ward and the city of Rockford to know if we're going to vote for $10 million for a fire station, which I totally support, to know where it's going to be, how it's going to function, and how you're going to redevelop that lot. The people have come to depend on that lot over there as a rallying point. Left around three acres there, the fire station itself will take approximately five, Give me a minute to be accurate here. A little over one acre itself in the building and the land around it. So to me, as the Alderman of the Ward, I got a dozen questions that I wish would be answered. And like I said, I think two weeks ago, Your Honor, when this first came to the floor. I said, I hope I won't be forced to vote no because I want to vote yes. But when you say the word not you, but it says here to redevelop the former Magna Shopping Center. Now, to me, that could mean ripping up that cross parking, re-exposing of the creek underneath it. It could mean a hundred things to redevelop that site. But I don't know what that means. I saw a rendering today of the station. It looks beautiful. It's not where I would have put it. I'm just one alderman. But if the vote comes tonight, the way it's set here with these questions makes me feel really bad because that's a big improvement for the 10th Ward and for this city and for our fire department. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Before I have a bunch of hands up... What I think may help and so mr. Cagnone or chief however you guys want to answer this and I Think I can help you out Alderman Beach With what sounds to be a difficult decision Do you look at the approval of this? Mr. K. I'll just go to you. Mr. Cagnone. Do you look at this as a? Plans are set in stone building is the way it's going to look It's placed where it's going to be or do you look at this as? more of Staff needs to know are we moving in the right direction should we continue to move down this so that we can have discussions? with the full council with Stakeholders and actually dive into the information so that I'm asking this so I mean he brought up a good point Is it it's a creek gonna be daylighted or not was one of his things and Do we, I just want to know, like, is there going to be further conversation that Alderman will be able to be engaged with as well as stakeholders around that area? Thank you, Your Honor. And Alderman Beach and I had an opportunity to talk about this project when it first was presented to City Council. There are no plans set. As we were evaluating this project as a staff, I had asked Chief to work through some preliminary numbers so that we had a reasonable estimate in regards to what it might take to advance forward the relocation of Fire Station 10. That's all it was. And that was predominantly related to the structure itself. We're not at the point where we can have an intelligent conversation related to where it should go without first engaging Alderman Beach and the community on how we would accomplish a number of goals related to the relocation of the fire station, because it is the relocation of the fire station in the development of Magna site. There's a lot of benefits of not only relocating the fire station that we could accomplish, potentially accomplish as part of this project. But as Alderman Veach and I had spoke about, was a possibility of having continued activities for festivals on that site. This is also a portion of the Keith Creek, right? And we know that we've had flooding downstream. So we'd want to properly design Keith Creek in such a way that it has potential to benefit downstream properties as well. So there's a lot of things to be discussed as we would go through the planning process. My commitment to Alderman Beach was prior to us advancing forward, we would get the team together, inclusive of Alderman Beach, to have those conversations. So there is no plans that have been created until we, you know, get this advanced forward and then sit down and, you know, make sure we identify what the priorities that need to be addressed are. I I won't answer for you, Alderman Beach, but it seems to have answered quite a few of the concerns. Do you have further concerns that you would like to address before I go to other aldermen? Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate that. I do not want to stand in the way of something that's good, but I also represent a Venice Association over there. I resent people that come into that area, and this is what I'm afraid of inside. Thank you. If I go ahead and say oh, let's go for it. The die is all cast even though I guess I'm hearing it isn't and I appreciate the answer and that's what you are saying to me and publicly here Then I'll think about in the next 15 minutes. I'm hoping we don't got 15 minutes a debate on this one So maybe to surmise that I'll put it this way. Mr. Cagnone. My dad always said to me You can't be a little bit pregnant Is I believe alderman beach is asking with the vote tonight? Is there no turning back if council? Didn't like the design decided the cost of 10 million was too much Decided they wanted to put it to pensions or whatever else they want to do later on Or are we already pregnant after this vote? Thank you honor So should I get this item be approved by City Council tonight? We would engage in the planning process that we talked about but all those steps are going to require additional approval by city council so thank you all right there was a lot of hands i believe alderwoman meeks had her hand up alderman meeks and who else just so i can see it okay i just had a quick question can anyone tell me um the cost to build fire station three chief Thank you for your question, Alderwoman Meeks. In 2015, the final cost for Station 3 was just near $6 million. I believe that it was just a little under that. Thank you. Thank you so much. Other discussion? Okay. Clerk, please call the roll on Item 12-2. Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Frenzy. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Bailey? 14 ayes. All right. We're moving right along now, guys. We have item 12.3, homeowner rehab program, $1 million. Is there any discussion on that item, 12.3? Alderman Thunberg? I am due to conversations at this item as it's tied in with some of the other items Related items I discussed with Administrator Cagnotti, so I will have to withdraw my amendment to this any discussion on this I seen none clerk Will you please call the roll on item 12 3 jerky? logan timber frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey Bonnie 13 eyes 1 no I Excellent next we're going to go to item 12 for fund pending legal claims allocation two million dollars It's there any discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? bogeyman, Toomber frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 14 eyes. Oh Excellent. Next, we're going to go to 12-5, Davis Park, $3 million allocation. Is there any discussion? Alderman Frost, and then I saw Toonberg. Did I miss someone else? Okay. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Davis Park is adjacent to the Embassy Suites Hotel. Folks are getting married. We have a major commitment in the Embassy Suites Hotel with respect to it was, I believe, bonded. And the city invested more money than we're going to invest in Auburn. And so we have to protect our investment. One of the issues that I have with Davis Park is for 20 years it has been studied and restudied and a building torn down and what are we going to do with it knowing it has an inflatable screen to show movies and that's fine, but it doesn't cost tens of millions of dollars to do that plan. Right. Was a little bit shocked when I recently saw Phase one of Davis Park to the tune of ten point six million dollars And we're talking about trying to find ways to save our city money and save And accumulate more more money to offset our pension costs here it is guys We don't need to spend this kind of money on Davis Park. We don't need a skateboard park to uh put in davis park uh to be a detriment to the hotel can you imagine getting uh you know i have two daughters uh having a wedding outside of davis park and and hearing the uh i don't know if you guys have ever heard of skateboard park but they're super loud right there's no reason to put a skateboard park on a scenic river it can be put anywhere it can be put in a parking lot the in the folks that skateboard are loving it enough they're gonna go they don't need to go to a river to do that and and then another option or plan on there is have some sort of beach feature I just don't understand this you know the Rock River isn't isn't a lake it has a it has a I don't know if anyone's ever been on it or swam in it but it has an incredibly strong current And why we would make, we talked about putting money, we just put money into a legal fund. The last thing I want to do is have some kids have it be an attractive nuisance to come down to the beach, again, next to the hotel, and then have some kid or child fall into the river that's close to the dam. So I know this has been kind of studied, but I've shaken my head at those two things. Points of it for a long time. And so I'm hopeful as a council We can say no to putting an additional three million dollars on top of all the other money That's been put into their state money city money, you know, it's I mean ten point six million dollars into a park that's That's how big that's grass, that has a pavilion in it right now, which there's nothing wrong with that. But we ought to really use it as an investment for people to come there, whether we decide to have outdoor concerts there again, or allow weddings to take place there, or have an ice skating rink there in the wintertime. But to have a skateboarding park and then a beach feature, I'll never get my hat around. So as a result of that, I'm gonna be voting no on this. Alderman Toomer? Thank you, Mayor. In another hedge, I withdraw my amendment to item number five. I will speak to a little bit on the Davis Park. I know there is quite a bit of money already put forth for Davis Park. I would agree on the skateboard issue. I live near a skateboard park at my time in Chicago. It is loud for individuals that would want to be dining outside at the hotel, which is a great asset to our community. Also those individuals getting married or whatever out there. I'm not sure. I haven't seen any indication of sound barrier or anything of the sort for that. Davis Park the three million dollars there again, I was part of my amendment was for Mounted speed radar on our on some of our police vehicles I think this is money that could be used for some of that. It's a small amount of it It's I can't make an amendment now With without City legal director and going through that that process but just a heads up on that It is what our issues one of our top two issues. I would say with most of us alderman is speeding in our city So I would the three million dollars for Davis Park. I would like to see allocated for for other things such as mounted speed radar for for our patrol cars I would also add that that you know with with money going into CIP mayor correct me if I'm wrong on that understanding is that amount would be at the discretion not of the aldermen of But I think here again what our taxpayers are looking for is especially is safety And their roads in good condition plowed Etc. Uh, I would like to see this money divvied up 14 ways with the remaining amount that is left over from giving our our patrol cars mounted speed radars, I would like to see this divvied up 14 ways and Allocated to each alderman appropriately for their discretion on streets in their ward. Thanks. I will be voting no on it. Thank you Thank you just so Following up on some, yes. I'm sorry. And I just wanted to add that, you know, there is a difference, and we all know it, that we've heard the line, there is a difference between wants and needs. And I would categorize this versus the two other ideas as a want and a need. So thank you. Thank you. Just to address some concerns I've brought forward. So the beach is out of the plans, so that's no longer part of the plans. The skate park is now on the south side of the rail tracks to act as a buffer with the noise. And a question I had to, I'll say, Mr. Saunders, did the hotel have... Input and Davis Park design is one question and do you know the breakdown? percentage wise for State funding I know Stottleman put a lot. I just can't add it up quickly state funding into Davis Park compared to city funding and Thank you, Mayor. So, yes, the hotel did have input in the master plan development, which ultimately led to that phase one scope being carved out and implemented. And then from a funding standpoint, I believe the state is funding, whether it be through. directed spending through Senator Stottleman and Representative West's office, I believe, and then other grant opportunities, 51% of our proposed project, and then the city would be providing, under the proposed surplus plan, 49%. Thank you. We'll go with Rose, and then Alderman Bonney. This one's for staff. Thank you, Your Honor. And correct me if I'm wrong, Kyle, Mr. Saunders, but Does the plan include any monies for like a pier or any kind of boat amenities along the river there? The boat docks were part of the Phase 1 Master Plan. We were able to work with Senator Stottleman's office and actually receive $450,000 from the state to already implement that. So the docks are in. Those actually opened. June June or July of this year, so that was actually kind of pre phase one But that was our first product we were able to deliver down there and how many how many? Sorry, I'm losing my voice How many docks were put in was it just one or two so it was a one long? They call them longitudinal docks, so it kind of runs parallel with the the riverbank That holds anywhere from you know seven to nine boats depending on the length of the boat and And then in regards to the plans, could you just kind of reiterate some of the changes that would be happening to the park as a part of that? YES, AND I'M GOING TO TRY TO NOT MISS ANYTHING, BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT OF ELEMENTS. SO AS PART OF PHASE ONE, WE'RE LOOKING AT ADDING SOME STAND-ALONE FEATURES. YOU KNOW, ONE IS AN EVENT STAGE THAT CAN SERVE NOT ONLY REGIONAL ACTS WITH OUR PARTNERS WITH ASM, WHERE THEY CAN ACTUALLY BOOK IT FOR LARGER EVENTS, YOU KNOW, 2,500 TO 3,000 PEOPLE EVENTS, BUT ALSO HOLD COMMUNITY EVENTS, FRIDAY NIGHT FLICKS, allowing some of the smaller bands in town to come play, and then certainly as a backdrop for weddings and other events that happen in the park. Additionally, there will be support buildings, so bathrooms and then storage facilities primarily for that event stage, but also in order to accommodate the play cluster that we call play. We are looking to construct a universally accessible playground. One thing we heard during the master planning effort was amenities like playgrounds, skate parks, event venues, splash pads, if you will, draw people from not only the local community but also from the regional draws that certainly will consume things other places. and obviously having access to things that don't currently exist downtown was important. So having a large, one of the first universally accessible playgrounds in the region certainly would be that draw. Additionally, we're looking at providing flex lawn space. So that's gonna be kind of more of your hardscape, landscaped areas. As we started to dial down the phase one design, much to Alderman Frost's comments, we understood that a beach in phase one, just from a functional standpoint, didn't seem to fit. So we're proposing a flex lawn there that would be hardscape, landscape, an area where you could certainly have food trucks, and serve as a picnic area. There would be a graded great lawn. So we'd be establishing, restoring a great lawn that exists in Davis Park as a backdrop for larger events. If ASM was to bring in a stage and certainly put a larger stage and hold a larger event, we would have the flexibility to have that great lawn. A multi-use path, right? It's a very strategic connection to rails to trails. The east side of the river through the Fordham property, that connection we just made, Morgan Street, certainly extending from the south along Coleman Yards, South Main Street, multi-use path is very, very important there. So that multi-use path would run along the riverfront and then connect further north with our continuation of our riverfront path improvements. There would be public art. We understand public art is very important. Landing some pads that we could bring some really nice pieces into the community would be important. Okay. decorative lighting and then certainly the skate park on the south side of the trestle was a large part of that public engagement with community members voicing Their optimism that something like that would be built there. So I'm probably missing three or four additional ones, but Looking at trying to activate the entire park and I appreciate you sharing all the components One of the things I think that gets forgotten in these types of projects is you know the park having that access for a families that maybe have someone disabled or Can actually play at a regular park because of the amenities not meeting their needs I don't think people realize that those types of parks don't exist much anywhere But that it's a major selling point for the hotel when you know people are looking at their amenities and saying oh, well, there's a park where my kid can you know play or you know if we're staying in town with a neighbors that that's a key component and I know those parks cost a lot of money because I've had a student who worked on a project at RPS who looked into those costs and they're astronomical but at the same point I think it's something that is Vastly needed in our community. I I hope our park districts looks into you know, adding a few more of those types of parks because You know people don't realize that while our parks do Help people that are Disabled in some some cases. They're not fully Retrofit for for people that are in wheelchairs and and in those types of situations. So that's one of the reasons I think I will be supporting this. I do, however, agree with Alderman from the 3rd and 4th Ward. I think that people are wary of kind of the project over in nature from its history. And I just think that what staff has done here has kind of maybe hopefully changed that perspective mantra to where you know people can utilize the park and you know that it will add some added benefit to both the downtown in general, but also to the Hotel there. Thank you. Holder min Bonnie. Thank you mayor so much like the conversation we just had on the fire station this is this is gonna the design and elements of how the Money is invested for Davis Park are going to come back to Council for approval For example, the council didn't want the skate park. The council could still remove the skate park at some point From the plan I assume Mr. Cagnone Thank you, Your Honor. So a little bit different than the fire station, because in the fire station we haven't gone through that planning process. As it relates to Davis Park, we have gone through a significant planning process, and City Council actually approved the Phase 1 implementation plan. And so we are going through the design process now. So if there's components that there's not consensus with, we'll be spending money on design, which we wouldn't want to do if we were going to take things out. I think the most of what we're going to see our dollars spent on are going to be, as it relates to design, is going to be the overall site, some of the infrastructure components that Director Saunders have talked about. I think the two concerns in regards to features that were discussed today is the sand beach As the mayor had stated that has been removed from and director Saunders that has been removed from the phase one implementation plan for a number of different reasons in the skate park Which I don't know where we're at and designed on the skate park, but technically it would be part of the process But you know we as we go through the process should there certainly be components that are not Approved by council. I mean that could take place. I But as you said, we have some of us haven't liked the skate park and we have already approved it But it isn't it isn't too late if we were seriously wanted to if the council seriously wanted to Review these components to to do that fairly quickly Correct would still be done. Correct. So we wouldn't I wouldn't have to reject this. I Its entirety we wouldn't have to reject this at all. We could simply come back in January with a motion to remove Any objectionable piece of the plan that we may or may not like? set secondarily aren't there haven't there been elements of this that have been on the table and desired by various people who have such as embassy suites that have a Parties have been working on it that remain unfunded such as a outdoor skating feature So that is correct in the full master plan there was additional skating Features, but that's you know not being proposed at this point in time, but to reiterate your point You know no contracts have been awarded. So is there components that the council felt as a whole? I still could be removed I mean, I think all I'm in frost made a great good point. I mean this is about this this recommendations about capitalizing on our large and very successful investment in embassy Suites capitalizing on our riverfront it is the only park that the city owns and as director Saunders previously said in total the 11 ish million dollar investment current price tag is essentially a 50-50 proposition between the city and the state and the current While there may not have been any required matches. I think the expectations have been that there would be partnership and There not all that state money is secured and I would think if the city is um pulled back on this expenditure you know the remaining uncommitted state funds may not come through so voting down this um expenditure for three million could potentially cost us 1.5 in additional revenue to the park so i i i don't think that um that that makes sense when we still while it's late in the game we still have the ability to shape the Pieces components the park plan overall the components of the park things that we may not like I personally don't love the skate park There either I agree. I don't I don't think it's fit, but we have approved it previously and It is being relocated Certainly sounds better than what was originally what was originally planned so I don't I don't support that Not making this expenditure risking the additional state money that might come and in when we can still address Potentially some of these individual concerns with the overall plan. Thank you. Thank you Alderman frost did you have your hand up again? Yeah, what is the the total amount that the city is Expected to put into Davis Park this this time I Say this time I mean not not I'm not not 1997 not 2005 With respect to this plan right now with this quote-unquote master plan. What's the city's total and total investment director Saunders? So with the additional three million under the surplus band it would be five and a half million coming out of the redevelopment fund and then we had 1.2 million budgeted from the CIP for the seawall And that does include the 1.4 that I'm sorry, the 1.1 that has already been spent on the demolition of the Lord building. And then with respect to what all the body indicated, is there matching funds or percentage from the state? We received a $500,000 grant through DCEO for the open canopy stage. That $500,000 has at least a 50% match. So in our grant application, we matched it at $630,000. And then on the most recent application that we submitted today at 4 o'clock, there is a $400,000 match. So I'm just curious where the other $4 million is coming from based on the Phase 1 numbers that... Think we're presented to us. So if we've put six point seven including the three on the table tonight And the total is you know ten point six ten point seven 11.1 so we leave if you look at the memo sent December 14th, it's eleven point one two five and it has outline of where every dollar comes from in a chart and It's like senator Stottleman provided three million dollars senator representative West a hundred thousand DC o tap grant 23 was five hundred thousand redevelopment fund 1.4 million CIP 1.2 rockford park district foundation 75,000 senator Stottleman 1.5 million and redevelopment fund three million thank you DC o tap grant 24 350,000 so those are all the line items add up to the 11 million dollars I was 11 point when I thought it was an expensive park at 10.6 now. No, it's actually over 11 I just want to make it clear because mr. Cagnois touched on this initially When alderman Bonnie asked about it? We will as a council have the right because I have not seen them. I don't believe the master plan For instance, I did not know there was going to be a playground there I did not know about the the multi-use path extending both north and south through through the park. So I mean, mr. Saunders I highlighted many features I did not know about so Even though what we may have approved some budgeting for it. It's fair to say mr. Cagney that we have not approved on the master plan and the design and as you indicated I believe mr All the body we would have the right to remove a Particular item if if the council so chose mr. Cagney, I So when we requested the additional funds several months ago, it did ask for authorization for implementation of the phase one plan. So that was approved by council, but that doesn't discount council's authority not to award contracts going forward. And we'd be happy to bring forward in the upcoming either committee meeting or strategic planning session if we don't have one scheduled too far out. Where our team with our partners have been in regards to the current design vetting the different components out And tweaking them along the way to make the adjustments that are within that budget we can do that We'd be happy to do that. Thank you. Thanks any other question. Oh, I'm gonna get my list here. I have alderman logeman and then I believe alderwoman Prunty just raised her hand and Thank you, Mayor. I'm loathe to share another comment here as we approach after 8 p.m., but I think it's important to share, too, a little anecdote. I brought in R1PC into my classroom last year, and as part of the presentation, just to talk about how MPOs interact with local governments. And multiple kids, actually, they were astounded at what was going to be going on at Davis Park. I'm very supportive of what's going on or what the the plans going on at Davis Park, but I remember one kid Specifically said that's pretty sick and I can't believe I'm saying that's sick on City Council floor But I think there is like when we talk about bringing our youth down to Downtown And as alderman rose mentioned, you know other folks down to downtown I think that's an important sentiment to share that maybe not all of us realize too that once this project Gets going and is underway I think there will be a lot of excitement for Davis Park and continued excitement toward downtown and Even director Saunders when you were going through your list there of all the amenities. I thought too. That's it's pretty sick So appreciate it. Thank you mayor. Thanks alderman Durkee. Thank you I I had enjoyed some conversation with Alderman Frost on this project, the different versions. I'm hoping and I'm assuming that this is version final. I am supportive of this park as I've always been supportive of. this concept that I've tried to articulate on the council floor of new urbanism and that even though we're talking about the hotel and we're talking about other people use the park we really are trying to Develop a 24-7 population people can live work and play in the downtown area to revitalize it and this area on the west side of the river Is ideal for it? I almost like to see Davis Park where the library is and if the library had to be on the river there I am really concerned and I bring that up because of what alderman frost brought up and that is water safety and I know mr. Catteloni and I in the past have talked about its proximity to the dam and right now we run only one safety line and and in the as we go through the iterations of the master plan really I know we have divisions of the fire department that are into water safety I'm sure there's a lot of expertise there or Even with I think the Coast Guard even helps with things like that But that is an unsafe area of the river you put a boat dock You you dock your boat your boat stalls. It's going over the dam if it doesn't get hung up someplace The current is strong. I actually lifeguarded on whitewater and it does it really doesn't take much to pull you over that dam and Somebody having a good time at a wedding if there's not a gate if there's not a gate along that River walk they're gonna go over that they're gonna go over and they're gonna go over the dam and So I'm fully in support of it. I really like this project. I like what it's doing to that area of the city and And as we as that area gets redeveloped, it's I think it's a good project. It is expensive I know we can we can go through the final plans, but I think one of the One of the big issues for me as far as we look at the final plan is how safe are we making? The river there as we draw more and more people to that site. Thank you. Thank you. Great points. I I believe the last I had was Alderman Prunty. It's been answered. Thank you very much. At the benefit of 14 other questions. Alderman Meeks. Yeah, I just wanted to comment. I appreciate your comments, Alderman Rose, but I just wanted to say there is an accessible park. It happens to be in the 12th Ward, John Beck's Memorial Park. So I just wanted to kind of throw that out there that we do have one. So it doesn't hurt to have more throughout the city, but absolutely want to make that comment. And that was an investment from the Park District of almost $200,000. Wow. Great point. Thank you. Okay. Clerk, could you please call the roll on 12-5? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Tunberg. Frost. No. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Tarrant. Meeks I Bailey Bonnie Toomer 11 eyes two nose Excellent now we're moving on guys. We have eight items left For the year the item we have before so is 12 six fire department communication System and radios a lot at amount 2.5 million dollars. Is there any discussion? And I thought this was gonna get all the debate tonight Clerk will you please call the roll jerky? logeman Toomer frost Tarina run T Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey, Bonnie 14 ice excellent next we're going to legislative and lobbying committee and older woman Prunty Thank you. The committee recommends approval and confirmation of priority items for the City of Rockford's legislative and lobbying efforts in the Illinois General Assembly. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Bonnie 14 nice excellent next we're gonna go to Alderman Wilkins with planning and development committee thank you your honor and ordinance approving the 2021 I'm sorry 2024 annual action plan is item number one item number two and ordinance approving a redevelopment agreement between the city of Rockford and classic cuts for a one-time TIF reimbursement from the South Main Rock Street TIF fund in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars Item number three, an ordinance approving the preliminary and conditional set-aside of home, Home Investment Partnership Program funds for Lafayette Apartments at 411 Mulberry Street. The federal funding source is the Home Investment Partnership Program, HOME. The maximum amount of funding based on GAAP financing is $650,000. Excellent. Thank you. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm in. I'm in. Logerman. I'm in. Tunberg. I'm in. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Item number 113, ayes, 1 no. Items 2, 3, 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is an ordinance approving the general wage increase for non-representative employees. Excellent. Counsel, we've got one item before us. Any discussion on that one item? No. Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Boguman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Grunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonney. 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Would it be possible to record me as a no vote on 12-5? I was out of the room when the vote came down. How would you like your vote to reflect? No. Thank you. Alderman Beach and Noam Davis-Pirk. Thank you so much, sir. Of course. Alderman Tunberg. Mayor, if anybody needs directions to their seats, give those directions. Thank you. What I need direction for is an adjournment. Please, someone. We got a motion. We got a second. Any discussion? No discussion. Great. Have a wonderful holiday and Happy New Year.