Can you hear me? Can you hear me? I'd like to just take just a second before we start the council tonight. I introduce this group. They're a part of the Salvation Army Band. We have a 40-piece brass band, but this is just one group. But there's something special about this group. I met them back in 2010 when they were small children, and they have been separated from their father from Nigeria for seven years. And then they joined back up. They're all United States citizens. They're all working gainfully. Some are students, some are past that, and especially the youngest one here. But I'd like to introduce the father. Abraham, would you like to introduce your children to this group? Yeah, good evening. We are originally from the Republic of Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo in Central Africa. I'm the father, Abraham. My first son is Isaac. My second son here is Jacob Samuel. Then I have Sarah, my daughter. Then we have Emmanuel. My wife is Miriam, she's a nurse, I'm an accountant working with the Salvation Army Headquarters, so we are happy to be here. So I asked the Mayor if he would want to have us all sing maybe Jingle Bells with the band and then we'll get out of your way. If you want to, we're going to give you a little introduction and then we expect you to sing good and loud. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Okay, good evening everyone. I just want to say a special thank you to the portions of the Salvation Army Band for providing us some holiday spirit before this council meeting. A special thank you to Alderman Beach for... You're bringing your talents to council as well as bringing the really talented family with you. So thank you. With that, we will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled city council meeting for Monday, December 19th, 2022. We will begin, as we always do, with an invocation. And we are fortunate to have Chaplain Norma Brerow. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we just commend this agenda to you tonight, asking for your wisdom, your knowledge, and your creativity to continue to conquer and recover all the things for the citizens of the city of Rockford. Amen. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Toomberg, Alderman Tarina, Alderman Wilkins, Alderman Hoffman, Rose, Alderman Beach, Alderman Quinones, Alderman Bonney, Alderman Frost. Here. Nine present. Thank you. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on November 21st, 2022? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on December 12th, 2022? Move to second. We have a motion, we have a second, maybe an aggressive second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. We're through that. We do not have any proclamations this evening. Next, we do have two public hearings tonight. I will turn over both public hearings to Alderwoman Gabrielle Torina to chair both of these public hearings. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two public hearings pursuant to 65 ILCS 511-91-1. A public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed right-of-way vacation. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on December 4, 2022. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, November 7. Is that right? Okay, 2022 at 530 in council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East 8th Street Rockford, Illinois for the consideration of a proposed right-of-way vacation of the area between 909 North Prospect Street 1700 rural Street south of 909 North Prospect Street also known as unimproved Brownwood Road are there any questions or comments from the council members on this vacation and No questions or comments from council. Are there any questions or comments from the public? Director Myers well, I brief make sure we correct the record that the notice of the public hearing gave notice Not for November 7th, but for December 19th at 530 p.m. Council chambers. That was a typo on them Emily gave the Alderman. Thank you. Thank you Any questions from anyone I seen that there's no questions. We will close the hearing on that item. I Going into our next hearing pursuant to 65 IFCS 511-91-1, a public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed right-of-way vacation. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on December 4th. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, November, Today is December 19th at 5 30 p.m in council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois for the consideration of a proposed right-of-way vacation of the right-of-way adjacent to 602 South Pierpont Avenue known as the North South Paper Alley of 7 XX Waveland Avenue. Are there any questions or comments from council members on this vacation? Are there any questions or comments from the public? Seeing that there's no questions or comments, this hearing is now closed. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderwoman Trina. Next, we're going to go to petitions and communications. other woman wilkins could you please provide the planning and development committee petitions and communications thank you your honor item number one memorandum from sarah brinkman housing and program manager regarding the 2023 annual action plan amendment to 2020 through 2024 consolidated plan goals and clarification made in the citizen participation plan referred to planning and development committee thank you next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman terena Thank you, Mayor. For Code and Regulation Committee, we have two items. Item 1, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on December 20, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee on January 9, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 2, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on December 20, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 9th, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. All these items will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a letter of understanding for the City-State Project Reconciliation. Number two is a memorandum from Jennifer Cacciapaglia. regarding the acceptance of the grant award fiscal year 2022 project safe neighborhoods number three is also from Jennifer catchapaya regarding the acceptance of the icjia restore reinvest renew grant award number four is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter traffic and development engineer regarding the local agency agreement for federal participation in the Parkview Sidewalk TAP grant. And number five is a memorandum from Robert Reffitt, deputy chief of police, regarding a request to purchase a police vehicle. Thank you alderman frost next we're going to move to our public speakers just a reminder to our public speakers There's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers. You can use either one You have three minutes to address City Council and then you'll hear Obnoxious cell phone ring and ask that you close your comments Our first speaker that we have this evening is Pat Kenny of rock not far from here between the kishwaukee and the Rock River and Lies Balboa Prairie, our prairie. Created from glacial deposits sculpted by hundreds of years, it took for them to melt. It was formed unique aquifers, a wall that caught the summer solace, and a stone amphitheater. Our prairie was just beginning when the First Peoples hunted the woolly mammoths here. The indigenous peoples tended this land, they planted a pharmacy, they had carefully controlled burns and encouraged the animals and plants they desired, formed the rules of conduct and their ceremonies. The beat of the drum was said to be the heartbeat of Mother Earth. They enjoyed the seasons, raised their children, and respected their ancestors. And then they were forced to abandon their home. The homesteaders saw no value in the sand and gravel, so they ignored our prairie. The war, the world brought the war to our prairie and the army trained there and then again for a second war. At the end of that, the army gave the prairie and all the land to the Rockford Airport. For more than a half a century, the prairie has been tended by the National Land Institute. In this world of disposability, of ever-changing, this ancient prairie stands alone. We can reproduce almost anything now, but there will never be another prairie like this. With its 146 different plants, grasses, and shrubbery, some of them, the roots go 18 feet deep. Dozens of varieties of birds, including a little bird that flies all the way from Argentina to eat this little pink bug that lives there. There are thousands of insects, including the rusty patch bumblebee. Many of these are endangered. If our prairie is destroyed, not only will these animals be destroyed, but all of the ones, all the migratory birds and bugs that come through there won't have any place to stop, and they won't be able to make it through their journey. I was born and raised in Rockford, and I remember when our slogan was, Rockford at the top of the state, and all of our hardware and our locks, they were known worldwide, and we were proud. We were a second city. Wouldn't it be great if we were known as the people that cared enough to have an airport and a prairie, that cared enough to save a prairie? Because we don't need another road, and we don't need another airstrip. But we can't replace this prairie. But I really fear that we're going to be the people that destroyed a rare prairie. But it doesn't have to be like that, because we can all be heroes, and we can change it because we can save that prairie. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Laura Stamp of River Forest. I'm going to talk fast because I have a lot to say. I've come here tonight to talk about the proposed expansion of the Rockford Airport. I signed up as a proponent of the project because I know the economic benefit of the expansion to the community. But let's talk about what's really happening. The airport board is completely mishandling the situation. As a result of their incompetence and stubborn adherence to an outdated and poorly designed expansion plan, they have prevented good jobs from happening right now, have put the whole expansion in jeopardy, and have spent taxpayer money on completely unnecessary lawsuits, security guards, and fences. As elected officials who have input on the appointments to the board, it's time for you to stand up and make Mike Dunn and the staff redesign the airport expansion to incorporate Belleville Prairie. Tens of thousands of people have rallied to save this tiny, critically endangered grassland, one of the last remnant prairies in Illinois, which is still known as the prairie state for now anyway, even though 99.99% of original prairie has been plowed or paved. Rockford officials could be seen as forward-thinking heroes in this situation by working with Senator Durbin's office to obtain federal funding to redesign the airport expansion to incorporate this rare and precious ecosystem instead of paving over it. More and more, we read about a biodiversity crisis. 200 nations signed off on a United Nation resolution today to save 30% of our land and water across the world today. These crises are going to change our world in ways we can't even fathom yet. Instead of looking for new solutions to preserve what we have, our airport board and Lockford officials are looking backwards to implement more of 20th century ideas that got us into the crisis in the first place. My students, who have done these posters here, can tell you that this prairie is more than just a home for rusty patch bumblebees. From Benjamin Drucker, prairies have gathered soil for millennia, making their soil richer than any other. The soil is alive in itself with all the organisms and insects that live in it. Remaking a prairie won't be the same as keeping a historical one. Prairies naturally filter water, protecting the people, animals, environment around the rock and even the Mississippi rivers. Balboa Prairie also filters the air, making it cleaner. From Louis Burwell, this is the Prairie State. I am proud to be from Illinois. My dad grew up in Rockford and I go there to play soccer on the same fields he played on. Expanding the airport into the prairie will cause flooding because the long roots of prairie plants can't absorb the water if they're destroyed. Rockford Airport is important for cargo. When planes can't land because of flooding, people and businesses can't get the goods and supplies they need. This would cause frustration for your constituents. You've shown how committed you are to the people people of Illinois, now it's time to stand up for the prairies of Illinois. These are the words of children who face an uncertain future. You are elected officials who can take action. Talented architects have proposed amazing alternative plans. Senator Dick Durbin has offered federal money to the airport for the redesign. Only the appointed board refuses to consider any of the plans that could protect a critically endangered... Appreciate it. Thank you. Our next... Our next public speaker this evening is Yolanda Green of Rockford. Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. Good evening, councilmen and councilwomen. My name is Yolanda Green. I am the owner and operator of Gracie's Estates Property, LLC. my newly launched business. I'm here to use this opportunity to speak on solutions of the city, not the problems. I have been a very active vessel in the communities for more than 20 years, and I want to use my rapport, my insight, and my passion to drive, improve the life of others. I am primarily focused on building back neighborhoods one home at a time. Both south and west side of Rockford are consumed with the belated and dangerous housing and buildings which is for sure target for dangerous housing and buildings are for sure target for squatters, crime and lowering of property value. My business is one who wants to take the vacant homes foreclosed in empty lots and create affordable clean efficient house for them to reside in. I have a target of low-income Syrian citizens and veterans, but not limited to. The Kaiser Family Foundation states 4.7 million adults 65 and older have incomes below the official poverty threshold. Majority of them have incomes less than $26,000 per year, and I'm not sure how they can factor a basic comfortable living in those means. Veterans are 50% more likely to become homeless than other Americans due to poverty, lack of support networks, and dismissal of living conditions over crowded substandard housing. The VA has estimated that on any given night, there were 76 veterans can be found laying on the streets of America. Being that my husband is a 20-year-old Vietnam veteran, I have witnessed the lack of care, attentiveness, and honor of our veterans. I have experienced those that live in poor living conditions decline rapidly in mental health and physically, especially without the support and resources they need basically. My team have the drive, the passion, experience of dealing with housing and homelessness with the help of my parents, who have been in the same field for 32-plus years. I'm using this opportunity to ask for assistance, connections, opportunities to unfold this solution effectively and successfully. I am the driving force. I just need someone to give me the gas to move forward. I am willing to make a change for the community of what could be and not dwell on what is. This is just one of many things on the list, but it's a start. Thank you so much for your time and consideration. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Martin Quirk of Rockford. Good evening. Members of the City Council, Mayor McNamara, and members of the public. My name is Martin Quirk and I'm a 24 year residents of Rockford and a teacher. I'm here tonight to speak in favor of the Rockford backyard chicken ordinance. I have been involved in efforts to bring backyard hens to Rockford for over seven years. And I have learned something through all those efforts. The support for backyard hens in Rockford is deep and diverse. Just over the last week, I have heard from people from every ward in Rockford. There is a group of daycare providers who are in favor of the ordinance, realtors, business owners who feel this is something that will benefit our city. Many of the facts concerning both the benefits and potential problems associated with backyard chickens are well known, and I will not go into them. Based on my discussions with Alderman, there are two areas of concern. The construction of unsightly structures and the potential extra burden on code enforcement personnel. I often tell my students, actually quoting the writer Shelby Foote, that America's true magic, true talent is for compromise. And I believe that through compromise, both of these concerns can be addressed. Now, concerning the added burden to city personnel, a pilot program limiting the number of check-in permits would address that concern. In fact, if you look at the newly revised Village of Lombard ordinance, they have a very good ordinance that actually provides a warning after three violations, your check-in permit is pulled and you're just no longer allowed to keep pens. Finally, when I moved to Rockford, I was told the stories of the things the city said no to. We've all heard them. NIU, the EAA fly-in, the Cherryvale Mall, others, over and over again. During my 24 years here, I have seen the city and government change, saying yes to projects that have benefited the city, even when there were concerns. The city market, oh, too much traffic. Downtown redevelopment, going to be too expensive. Too many streets. This city council and others have moved forward on those projects. Finally, as I have listened to objections and provided example ordinances over the last six years, there has always been an implication from city officials that Rockfordians can't be trusted with backyard chickens. I find this hurtful. Because as citizens, we place a lot of trust in you, our elected officials. And I feel some of that trust should be returned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Nancy Godowski of Rockwood. It's been a long time. It has. Okay, I'm glad you came before me because I have some things to say. Okay, regarding Alderman Bill Rose, my friend. His chicken ordinance, although well intended, it is not practical and creates more problems than it solves. So it is costly. Hens, coops, and their construction. And continually bringing, buying feed, that's another thing. Maintaining the water, especially in winter, then you're going to have to buy a heater to do that. So that's money and electricity. Two, who is going to oversee the sanitation of the coops and yards? Chicken get mites and diseases. Will there be inspections? Are we going to have chicken inspectors? Do chickens need to get licensed like other pets? Who will handle any complaints? This council knows neighbors get upset with each other when properties aren't maintained properly, and you and your staff have to handle it. But in this case, I think you should all refer any complaints to Alderman Rose. He knows I love him. Also, chickens attract coyotes, foxes, hawks, snakes. Snakes just love the eggs. And they look for food also. And possums and skunks, they like the eggs too. So you're going to be attracting more things than you bargained for. And I'd just like you to think about this. Oh, mice and chipmunks, too, they like the feed. Anybody has bird seed, they know what the squirrels are in that bird seed feeder. So I'd just like you to think about it. And I will agree with the previous speaker to a certain degree that I think maybe if you want to do this, do this for a pathway, career pathway in the schools, that might be a thing. And it would be, you know, you could try it out there. And then I was thinking maybe RVC. How about the Winnebago Extension Service? At least those are people that are professionals that could lead people. That would be, you know, how you would say meeting you halfway. But I don't think right off the bang we ought to start that way. People have other problems going. They are losing their jobs with the plant. you know, in Belvedere. They don't have the money. Christmas is coming. They're worried about their heating and their gas. And right now, I don't think is the time. Maybe it's the right thing, but it's not the time. So just think about it, all right? Thanks. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers. Next, we'll move into new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Let me see. How many items do I have? okay so for the code and regulation committee we have there's six items but um i found this on the web that's not me um the mayor asked me to hold out item number three so we have five Number one the committee has no recommendation on the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for a modification of an existing class a liquor license to a class l50 and to add video gaming terminals in conjunction with a restaurant in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 501 East State Street item 2 committee has no recommendation on the modification of an existing liquor license to add additional video gaming terminal and at Screw City Tavern located at 4412 Manchester Drive. Number four, committee recommends approval of an amendment to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances to allow hens at single family homes in the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the request to amend the right-of-way vacation ordinance for 909 North Prospect, previously approved by Council, and to vacate the right-of-way known as unimproved Brownwood Road for the total cost of $500. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. And number six, committee recommends approval of the request to vacate a portion of the right-of-way adjacent to 602 South Pierpont Avenue, known as the North South Paper Alley of 7XX Waveland Avenue, to the property owner of 602 South Pierpont Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So we have five items up and I appreciate that. We're waiting for additional information on item three to bring back to you. Alderman Rose had his hand up. Alderman Bonnie has his hand up. Alderman Rose, I'll go to you first and then Alderman Bonnie. Thank you, Your Honor. For item four, I had an amendment that I wanted to mention as a part of item four. Okay. and i'll read the amendment but then i wanted to speak to the issue of it as well so For item 4 I move to amend item v1 b4 as follows the proposed ordinance shall be amended to state that One the hen ordinance is a citywide pilot that shall expire 12 months from the date of adoption by council and to the city shall Not issue more than 30 permits Under item 3. I'm not going to include that language under item 3 there for the copies of the aldermen and Where it says city staff is further directed to report the code and regulation committee 12 months after the passage of the ordinance the report shall include The number of permits issued and the number of ordinance violations reported and one of the reasons I moved forward with that ordinance was because having listened to the council and Different people in the community. I felt like it would be a lot better to I move this a little bit slower, that there are still a lot of concerns by different residents and city councilmen and women. But I did want to point out a few of the things that Mr. Quirk, our speaker, mentioned and some questions that came up last city council. First thing first is we had an alderman person who asked about property values and how um how backyard chickens would impact property values. There's two answers to that question. The first is on your desk, there's a letter from MATT HUMPLE, WHO IS A LOCAL REALTOR WHO WORKS FOR REMAX. HE TALKS ABOUT THE FACT THAT THERE ARE NO IMPACTS TO OUR PROPERTY TAXES OR PROPERTY VALUES RELATED TO THIS. IN FACT, HE JUST GOES THROUGH THE LETTER DEBUNKING THAT FALSEHOOD. ALSO IF YOU GO TO THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS' WEBSITE. They also state the same exact item. I can provide that link for you at some point down the road, but there is absolutely no proof or any evidence that backyard chickens negatively impact property values. I'll point to a second letter by Greg Watt, who owns Watt Global Media. I didn't know this a while back, but Watt Global Media is one of the largest companies Poultry magazines in the country. And Mr. Watt is the president and CEO, and he actually moved his company to Rockford many years ago, but he's been here for a long, long time. He's well respected in the poultry industry. and is one of those individuals that has been a servant leader in our community for some time. He writes that the benefits of owning backyard poultry are many. Through the pursuit of education, our urban kids and families will gain through learning where their food comes from, receive the joy of personally creating their own fresh supply of nutritious protein, attain a broader understanding of our global food supply, add new lifelong skill sets with the responsibilities of learning to care for animals, And those were just a few of those. And then there's also a letter from Wayne's Feed. As Mr. Quirk had mentioned, there's been numerous small businesses and people have reached out saying that they are in favor of this. I think it's important for us to at least, similar to going off of Mr. Quirk's statements, is to trust our citizens, to allow them the opportunity to do this. And I'll just kind of close my statement with this is... When I first got on city council, I was talking to a staff member here at the city of Rockford, and they had asked me, they said, you know, what are one of the things that you want to accomplish as an alderman? And I said to him, I said, well, I'd really like to push forward some sustainability efforts with our city because I think Rockford's been really slow in that regard. And he kind of laughed at me. He said, Bill, you know, voters in Rockford don't really care about that stuff. You know, it's interesting because when we see things that happen around the country and the world, when we see things like water systems that fail on us and those people are stuck with a bad water system or they live next to a blighted property and they call in and say, hey, you know, this property has been here for 20 years. you know, can you take care of it now, which I think we've been doing now for some time. When people ask about things like, hey, I don't want this certain type of polluted area moving into my area because it's going to pollute, or you have companies that are moving into Illinois, to push forward solar projects. These are all sustainability efforts. And Rockford has been extremely, extremely slow, much slower than other communities with those things. When you look at communities like Chicago and Detroit, the level of urban farms that they have in undeveloped areas is just like Just go ahead and look at it. There is so much opportunity with regards to urban farming and urban farming practices and backyard chickens and solar and all of these sustainable efforts that we just haven't been able to bring forward. And I think part of that is because Rockford has a lot of old thinking going. Not a lot of new thinking and so I encourage people to take into consideration this pilot program Which would expire in one year. Thank you. Thank you. So we do have a motion on the floor And we now have a second, okay, we'll continue our discussion. We have alderman Bonnie had something and I'll come to all of you Thank you, Mayor. Actually, I wanted to propose two amendments and two other items. Let's take a break on that. Okay. Keep going on this one, if you don't mind. Although, I would. Do you have a comment on that? Sure. Sure. Might as well. So, I asked a lot of questions when this is in front of codes and regs about things like this. Could, you know, if we're legal to look at, could we do this as a pilot program, maybe that was geography-based? Could we have a sunset clause on this? And I think that's a good idea because, you know, my sense of this is that people who are for it are strongly in favor, people who are against it are strongly opposed, and there are probably a lot of people who are indifferent. DeKalb recently I did not know this last week, but DeKalb had a referendum advisory referendum on its municipal ballot and the last or on its ballot in the last in the fall election and the effort failed by believe 53 to By about a six point margin personally in my own ward I had two people who have who asked me about this before we were even talking about it who wanted it and One who lives down the block who has emailed me that he's opposed most of the other feedback I've gotten if has come from other wards Including somebody in alderman other woman Torino's award who says their house is going up for sale if we approve this So I think I think this is Really a good Compromise it forces. I like the idea of a pilot program or a sunset clause Because it forces us to come back and revisit it Versus it's always might it would be much harder to move to repeal it then to move to reopen 30 You know 30 may seem like a big number but you know, it's less than three per ward and if it all were to fall out that way, if we even get 30 applicants. I think the concern about code enforcement is real. We did, even if it's, I believe it's not, I believe it is founded, and not just perception, that we are not as responsive to complaints or as quick to respond to complaints as we could or should be. But we have devoted $150,000 additional in our budget for the coming year, which can be used, including for legal, around court enforcement. So I would hate to see all of that gobbled up on chickens, but hopefully, I don't think that'll be the case. I don't think we, I think it's quite possible we wouldn't even get to 30. So, you know, I... On the you know with with with this can with these containments and restrictions on it. I can support it. Thank you Thank You mayor first of all, I want to thank mrs. Gdowski because she expressed a lot of my concerns also But moving on mr. Kirk brought up something about compromise Well, I'm reading the letter from Remax the one that alderman I ROWS REFERRED TO, AND THIS SHOWS EXACTLY MY CONCERN. THEY SHOWED THAT THE CITIES THAT THEY LISTED ALL WERE HIGHER INCOME. AND THAT'S FINE. THOSE PEOPLE PROBABLY ALL HAD CUSTOM-MADE CHICKEN COOPS. MY CONCERN IS WE'VE BEEN SAYING, HEY, FOR $40, YOU CAN BUILD ONE OUT BACK. THAT TELLS ME THAT NEIGHBOR IS GOING TO GET A CHICKEN SHACK, NOT A CHICKEN COOP. AND I, FOR ONE, DON'T WANT TO BE... looking out, seeing such a building. So the compromise I would like to see is that we put some type of large lot size into an amendment and also that we put some kind of insurance about, what this chicken coop will look like and contain and the quality of it. It can't be some little handmade thing for $40 that gets plopped on a piece of land. So I could go for a compromise on this amendment if we increase the lot size and the quality of the chicken coop so it does not become a chicken shack. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Logman, since you just came in, you'd be shocked to know that we're talking about chickens. So I just want to get you up to speed. Any other discussion on this? We have a motion, we have a second, so we have the amendment before us. Alderman Thunberg? I appreciate everyone's efforts on this on either side of the issue. One of the concerns I do have is that I have had constituents reach out and they're absolutely adamant that they... Do not want to live next to a neighbor who has chickens so speaking of Amendments or whatever alderman Hoffman just talked about an acreage thing. I just Feel like the calls are gonna start coming in from constituents That have that issue happening to them. I am too concerned that that We do have a our neighborhood standards department is stretched thin And now they will have yet another issue on their hands to tend to with that Remax Issue I did read it and you know it says about the the cities that have it and they are obviously Chicago and cities that are say collar cities to Chicago and You know there I think that those cities, you know when it says that we should strive to be more like those cities You know those cities have something that we don't and those cities I think are directly tied to the economic engine That is Chicago When we deal with a lot of our issues here on council and we talk about peer cities when we talk about our budgets and different things and Compensation we aren't tying those to Naperville Lombard Downers Grove Oak Park st. Charles West Dundee and The other hand where it says we shouldn't really Align ourselves with these other cities. We are aligning with those cities all the time when we talk about those things at Council about compensation and various Ordinances in relation to other cities and we absolutely talk about Bloomington Champaign normal Peoria and Aurora for that matter so You know, that's just a side, but I am extremely concerned about neighbors that adamantly do not want this and that ultimately will have one right next door. Thank you. Alderman Frost. If the amendment passes, how many votes do we need for it to pass as an order tonight? Is it eight still? Eight. I just want to say that I spoke to Alderman Rose. I've been not a fan of this for a couple years, and the amendment that is proposed, I think it shows some level of compromise, and I appreciate that, Alderman Rose, immensely. I really do. I asked about taking out the grandfathering, and you agreed to do that, so I do appreciate that. Alderman Hoffman mentioned that... Possibly some other amendments proposals and I just wonder Tonight if it would be better off to to lay it over to give us a time to work on This amendment and moving forward with getting an ordinance that does have a level of compromise I really like that you said I really like the idea of having 30 and I really like the idea of it expiring because let's face it if in the year all of us on the city council if we are having even from the 30 if we're getting uh several complaints then and it's you know we'll have an assessment of how much staff time uh it's really taking or if it's not taking any and we'll see whether or not these these folks that are in the pilot are taking care of their coops and I like I told all them in rows I have a feeling that these are going to be the proponents that really um that go to yeoman's work to try to set a good example for everybody else. And like I said, if not, then instead of grandfathering, if we're having complaints, then this does, basically it does become a sunset ordinance and they're done. And that's the way it's written, and I think that they're, I don't know if that makes sense from a City Council policy. These arguments about the airport and the Cherryvale Mall, frankly, I don't care. This old versus new, I don't care. We're all here. We're all here doing the best job we possibly can. And I get really kind of sick and tired of the same arguments about that kind of stuff, especially when most of it isn't even true in the first place. But I think we are looking forward. We are we are trying you are trying to be progressive with this and and I'm not using that Progressive in a political term, but just trying to move the ball for some residents that got ahold of you So I do I do applaud you for that Thank you. Okay, so we have A motion in a second before us then we have alderman Quinones. We have alderman Bonnie and we have alderman Durkee Oh, I would be in favor of all the men crosses. I A motion to lay it over. I've been getting a lot of calls and so far everybody's in favor of my award. Just like I said, the chickens are here already, so we might as well make a little money on the ones that got the chickens or we'll shut them down. We're only talking 30 permits and I like Alderman Rose's 12-month proposal proposal. So if it don't work out, we'll just shut it down. But I'm in favor of Alderman Krause's laying it over. Thank you. Alderman Barney. Thank you, Mayor. I forgot to mention that since the codes and regs meeting last week, I also learned the Winnebago County has a draft of a similar ordinance. They're not as far along as we are and has not actually been introduced yet. But theirs would... Allow three hens per bedroom. So, you know average average being maybe nine five more than what we're talking about and I think this is particularly important to keep in mind because if the county were to pass won't pass anything And you'd like that and we don't but the number of unincorporated pockets that we have is the city you could very well I know a big one in my ward very well end up with chickens next door whether we have a chicken ordinance or not again there's is we are I think further along than they are than the county is but and I guess that might be an argument in favor of laying this over but for what it's worth I think certainly that the trend is To at least be considering and talking about this kind of thing. Thank you. Thanks alderman Durkee Thank you, your honor. That's just a follow-up to alderman Frost's remarks as far as gauging a pilot program it'd be very difficult you're only doing 30 and You have a finite population. The only people that are going to complain are the people around the house and So if you have 120 complaints, you basically have almost, I mean, for this lot, you have 100% complaint rate. So I don't know how you run that to make it a valid sort of assessment because it's too hard to do that. So if you have neighbors that don't want to hassle the other guy, they may shut up because they're going to know who, Sooner or later who did it and so they get an unhappy neighbor just keeping their mouth shut So I I'm not quite sure how that would work in an assessment of you know, whether or not people like it Thanks. All right. So we have a motion. We have a second with the alderman roses amendment Which in a nutshell if I have it accurate alderman Rose's 12-month pilot max of 30 permits and codes and regulation Would get a report within that 12-month period. I So aldermen would have an understanding of some aspect of the calls for service suffer Any other discussion alderman Beach? Thank you. How does a lot size factor into the amendment? It does not it is my understanding so if the amendment goes through and it's passed on the council It's not laid over then any lot in the city of Rockford would be eligible director Myers Not necessarily there are regulations on how far the coops would have to be both from the lot line but also other structures on the property so there could be properties with where you would not be able to put a coupon because the lot is too small or too close to your neighbors sorry alderman beach for misspeaking Alderman Bonnie again. Just a point of clarification. We were only voting on the amendment. The amendment, yep. So we could approve the amendment, and then if somebody did make a motion to lay it over after the amendment passes, that could still occur. We could do a whole other round. Right. And then we could lay it over. Okay. Yes. All right. We have the amendment on the floor. Any other discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Tarina. printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Bonnie eight eyes four nose Excellent so now we have five items before us item four has now been amended Alderman frost I'd make a motion to lay over item number four We have a motion we have a second automatically laid over so now we are down to four items item Really moving through these we have items one two five and six before us alderman bonnie has Thank you mayor. I would actually like to propose Amending two items item b1 and b2 we do one at a time sure so Item b1 would be that I moved to amend the committee report to recommend sustaining l tabs recommendation and to approve a modification of the liquor license for Vintage 501 at 510 East State Street to add three gaming machines rather than five. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Okay, now we have that amended. So item one has been successfully amended with three machines. Alderman Bonney. Thank you. And item two, I would move to amend the committee board report to recommend approval of a modification of the liquor license for Screw City Tavern at 4412 Manchester Drive to add one gaming machine. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye. Could you please call the roll on that jerky? I'm sorry. I didn't hear you Logan man, Tuber frost Tarina fronty, I'm sorry. No, I say yes or no Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Bonnie seven eyes five nose. Okay, so we have item one that's been amended in We have now four items before us. Is there any further discussion on these four items? The amendment has passed, so items one and two are also amended. Thank you. So we have four items before us. Items one and two have both been successfully amended. Is there any further discussion on the four items before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Three is not out. Three has been held out. Three has been held out, four has been laid over, so we have one, two, five, and six. Logeman. Toonberg. Toonberg. frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach for has been Laid over three has been held out. He knows Bonnie Hi item number one nine eyes three nose item two eight eyes four nose Item five and item six twelve eyes excellent. Thank you. We'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you guys. I Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $9,480,418.68 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on December 12, 2022. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request for 208 South Henrietta Avenue from $3,000 to $500. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine reduction request for the fine The request is being made on behalf of Ivan Rivas Lopez, the current owner of the property, abated all outstanding violations. I place these two matters before you. Thank you. So, Council, we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? All those, or clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Bonnie hi 12 ice excellent. Thank you Any officers reports alderman tumor Thank You mayor this Wednesday at 3 o'clock at Walker Park there is a winter solstice poetry caroling second annual Just show up. They'll give you a script quick rehearsal and they're going poetry poetry caroling in the neighborhood and relaying the message on behalf of one of my constituents, Connie Kuntz, and carols, sharing poems, all ages, bundle up, Walker Park at 3 o'clock, and there is a gigantic puppet named Chug Row. I think Alderman Quinones is under that outfit, so that's it. Thank you. Thanks. Alderman Bond? Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I would just like to thank the Mayor and the City staff for the following through on the, with the unveiling of the Give Better campaign, which for those who may have missed it, is sort of the next step from the blue and white signs that discourage giving money to panhandlers in our intersections and encourages people to instead contribute to charities that work to end homelessness and I don't think I again, I believe that while this is probably not the answer it could be the answer I mean if if this really catches fire and wins over the hearts and minds of a significant number of people in Rockford and we can redirect the money then the Issue that I hear a lot of people complaining about would Potentially go away. And so I It's going to be, it's going to expound on the blue and white signs with billboards, social media campaign, some PSAs. So I would encourage, I've already shared that on my social media. I would encourage everybody else to do the same. So thank you. Thank you other reports alderman rose. Thank you your honor in light of some of the news that there could be a inclement weather issue coming down the week just a reminder of people do you know, make sure that your snowblower is working and that you maybe have someone available to you you know move snow if if you need to do that uh coming up towards the tail end of the week but also just take into consideration that that you know the store there's a storm coming but um we're not sure exactly what that's going to look like until more midweek but to just be ready and um You know if something with your electric electrical goes out or something make sure that you can call someone to Help with that. I know that the storm is They're saying that there had there could be heavy winds and possible electrical outages and I'm not saying that to scare people but I'm kind of like one of those people that over plans and tells people that you know, have your candles and all of that stuff so but just also for residents to check on your neighbors also and um you know whether it's a family member or a friend or whoever just to reach out to them make sure they're doing okay um in this time especially around these kind of storms thank you any other reports We'll make you aware that there is a service called Blue Christmas at Brook Road Church at 1404 Brook Road Thursday at noon, which is the 22nd. It is to honor and pay tribute to all the lives lost due to the opioid epidemic. So we want to make you all aware of that service. With that, we'll move on. All of the appointments that are up are not up until January 11th or after that date. So we'll move to motions and resolutions. And we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Committee recommends approval of the resolution for City Council closed session minutes. Is there any discussion on that item? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Thank you. Next, we will go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the contract renewal for medical stop-loss to Tokyo Marine HHC of Houston for a contract amount rates of $22.70 per employee per month for single, $77.31 for family. The total estimated annual premium is $864,692. Based on the current number of health insurance participants, the contract duration is one year. The funding source is the health insurance fund. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the contract renewal for the pharmacy benefit manager to express scripts for contract amount rates. The average wholesale price less discount. The retail cost of brand name drugs will be at the AWP less 19.5%. Generics will be at the AWP less 83%. General discounts will be applied for mail order. These new rates represent approximately a $275,000 savings. The total estimated cost is $4.5 million. The contract duration is one year with two additional single-year renewal options. The funding source is the health insurance fund. Number three, the committee recommends approval of an award of joint purchasing for 2023 police vehicles to Curry Motors Fleet of Forest Park, Illinois, in the amount of $917,364.80 for 23 new police vehicles. The funding source is the Capital Lease Fund. Number four, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Administration of Children and Families Office of Head Start Annual Continuation of Head Start Early Head Start Services for a period from April 1, 2023 through March 31, 2024, and the approval to accept the funds. Head Start is also seeking approval of the Self-Assessment Report and the Self-Assessment Work Plan and Program Goals. I place these four matters before you. Thank you. We have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey Logum in to bird? frost Terina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Bonnie 12 eyes Excellent. Thank you. Next up. We have one item and that's a legislative and lobbying committee and that's alderman frost. I Thank you. The committee recommends approval and confirmation of priority items for the city of Rockford's legislative and lobbying efforts in the Illinois General Assembly. Thank you. That's one item, Your Honor. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Logerman. Tunberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 12 ice excellent. Thank you. We'll go to new business and we'll go to code in regulation committee and all the moment, Rena Thank you, Your Honor So it looks like number three was held out and then number four was laid over So number one ordinance approving a modification of an existing class a liquor license to a class l50 and to add video gaming terminals in conjunction with the restaurant and a c4 urban mix use zoning district at 501 East State Street and Number two, an ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Screw City Tavern located at 4412 Manchester Drive. Number five, an ordinance approving the request to amend the right-of-way vacation ordinance for 909 North Prospect, previously approved by Council, and to vacate the right-of-way known as Unimproved Brownwood Road for the total cost of $500. And number six... ordinance approving the request to vacate a portion of the right-of-way adjacent to 602 South Pierpont Avenue Known as the north-south paper alley of 7xx Waveland Avenue to the property owner of 602 South Pierpont Avenue Thank you all the woman council. We have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? Clerk will you please call the roll turkey? Logoman to bird for us Tarina fronty I Wilkins often Rose Beach, you know nice McNeely Item number 110 eyes three nose item number two nine eyes four nose items five and six thirteen eyes Excellent. Thank you Next it's my honor to call on alderman frost. I I just asked don't kill the messenger since I just got an event on my phone that seems far more pressing. But at this time, I would ask that we move to convene in the closed session to discuss labor negotiation matters. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right. We'll recess to closed session. Okay. We are back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Thunberg. Here. Thunberg. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. I hope you all have an awesome Christmas. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a good night.