Oh, we have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. Could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Spokane? Aye. Tumor? Aye. Bras? Aye. Kirby? Aye.
 AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 do you notice uh family i mcneely alderman mcneely i 13. excellent thank you uh we have no approximations this evening under persistence and communications we have nothing under planning and development nothing under code and regulation
 Committee, Finance and Personnel Committee, we have several items. First of which is, if you could mute your phone if you're
 all right i think we got okay uh member and from kyle saunders uh public works director regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the rock river water reclamation district for the buckbeak creek bank stabilization that's been referred to finance and personnel committee
 Item two, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director regarding an award acceptance and grant agreement for the 2020 Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, Opportunity Zone Investment Program grant, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item three, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director regarding an agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for U.S. Business 20,
 from Day Avenue to Independence Avenue, referred to finance and personnel. Item four, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, public works director regarding an agreement between the city of Rockford and the state of Illinois for U.S. business 20 from Day Avenue to Independence Avenue referred to finance and personnel.
 item five legal director nicholas uh myers to open bids for sale of property located at 410 street the bid will be received the finance and personnel mr very excited we've got the drum roll
 We have one from Christopher manual and the amount of $1,000 is included a check for 10%. The 100 dollars.
 Thank you. I have a sixth item in hand, referring amendments to section 2-407, rules governing purchasing of the City of Oxford Code of Ordinances to the Finance Personnel Committee for discussion at its next scheduled meeting. We've already completed public speakers. Next we'll go to new committee reports.
 Roman numeral five new committee reports, planning and development committee. Item one, committee recommends approval of the proposed agreement between the city of Rockford and WA Whitney company. The city of Rockford agrees to release of its public bicycle and exercise permanent easement for the property located at 650 Ray Street and exchange WA Whitney company will transfer
 four separate parcels to the city that are adjacent to the city-owned parcels. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Item number 2, committee recommends approval of the renewal of a license agreement between the City of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation for the continued use of 312 Irving Avenue as a strong house for the Rockford Police Department. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. We have two items before us under planning and development. Is there any discussion?
 Please call the roll. Turkey. Aye. Logan. Aye. Hoover. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Cooley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 13- Excellent. We'll move to item B, total regulation committee. We recommend approval of the Michael Bynum and Paul S. Fast Paine Anthony subdivision.
 Item 2, committee recommends approval of the authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 1210 6th Avenue. City staff is seeking authorization to place for sale the city-owned property with preference to the adjoining property owners. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Is there any discussion on these two items? Okay.
 Same one. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Abstain one. Aye. On two? Wilberman? Aye. Aye. Blast? Blast? Aye. Thank you. Irby? Aye. Irvin?
 Thompson Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Ricks? Aye. Beach? Aye. Jonas? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 12 ayes, 1 stain on item 1, 13 ayes on item 2. Thank you, ma'am. Item 3. Item 3. Item 3. Item 3. Item 3. Item 3.
 I don't see financing personnel committee committee recommends approval of the. And the amount of 21,401,322 dollars and 39 cents as approved at the financing personnel committee meeting on December 14th, 2020.
 Item 2, committee recommends approval of the Intergovernmental Agreement for Exchange of Services with Rockford Public School District 205. In support of the Rockford 5.0 program, legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Is there any discussion on those items? Yes, Your Honor, if I might. This is Alderman Hervey. Because I do work with the school district and actually gets into this area a little bit, I should have abstained last week, and I wasn't paying attention. So I will abstain on this final vote, but should have done so at committee. And I apologize for that mistake, but I would like the record to reflect that.
 that error thank you any other discussion saying none quick will you please call the roll turkey hi logan hi hervey it's staying on number two i am number one servants hi thompson kelly
 Aye. Hoffman? Hoffman? I'm still not hearing Alderman Hoffman. Karen, how do you hold? Hold, aye. Thank you. Alderman Brown? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinonez? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely?
 13 ayes and number 1, 12 ayes, 1 abstain and number 2. Thank you. 6 appointments laid over that I can play it over to our next meeting.
 Your Honor, may I move to suspend the rules? I noticed that it's up for passage after the 23rd, but we are not in session next week. We've been trying to work to get Dr. Durkee actually some information about Ms. Soltow. It's just been taking a while to get it. This is one of those unique appointments that someone else has.
 appoints them, brings them to the Community Action Agency Board, they discuss it, then brings it to me for your appointment. So it's a bit of a tangled web to get to the information that Dr. Durkee now asked for two weeks ago, I think, or three. Is this the multi-county thing? Yes.
 This is a community action agency. And I know Crystal Saltao. I don't know her personally, but I know she runs a business. So I'm guessing during the pandemic, she's getting her resume to us is probably not the top of her list for that. But we are working through that. Okay. I'll leave it where it is then. Thank you. Thank you. Room numeral seven, motions and resolutions. Nothing under planning and development. Nothing under coding and regulation committee.
 Under finance and personnel item number one committee recommends approval. The word of bid Cedar street over 10 Creek bridge repairs to home. Bridge repairs to home. Civil of Freeport, Illinois and the amount of $148,037.60. The project is estimated to be completed by May 28th, 2021 funding source is sales tax. Okay.
 Item 2, committee recommends approval of the award of bid, Gregory Heights Drainage Improvements, Phase 1 to Northern Illinois Services of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $279,518.80. The project is estimated to be completed by May 28, 2021. The funding source is Capital Improvement Plan General Fund. Item number 3, committee recommends approval of the award of bid, City Hall Sidewalk, ADA,
 and drainage improvements to northwest construction of south florida illinois in the amount of sixty one thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars and fifty cents the project is estimated to be completed may 14 2021. the funding sources property fund operating budget about this time i really wish alderman frost audio was uh better to be heard uh item four
 Committee recommends approval of the award of bid for garage commercial labor light duty vehicles to the Utica brothers on motorboat rocket Illinois and bobeys auto truck auto and truck service of rocket Illinois for an estimated annual value of two hundred and twenty five thousand based on unit pricing Contract duration is through December 31st 2021 with four possible one-year Extension options funding sources garage fund operating budget item five is
 Committee recommends approval of the award of bid elevator maintenance to Schumacher elevator company of Denver, Iowa. For an estimated value of 50,000, the contract duration is 1 year with 4 possible 1 year extension options of funding sources and property fund. Operating budget item 6.
 committee recommends approval of the award of bed human services janitorial services to crowley services of cherry valley illinois for the contract amount of 26 974 dollars year one year two it's twenty nine thousand three hundred and thirty five dollars year three thirty one thousand nine hundred and one dollars year four thirty four thousand six hundred and ninety two dollars year five thirty seven thousand seven hundred and twenty eight dollars in amount increases by year
 are 8.75%. The contract duration is one year, with four possible one-year extensions, funding sources, human services, operating budget.
 Item number seven, committee recommends approval of the renewal of contract on the medical stop loss 2021 to nationwide insurance for contract amount rates, $25.47 per employee per month, single enrollment and $61.60 per employee per month family enrollment. Total estimated annual premium at 726,640.
 68 dollars is based on current member current number of health insurance participants the contract duration is one year funding sources health insurance fund
 Number eight, committee recommends approval of the rescind award of bid. Staff recommends rescinding the award of bid to Royce Ford Commercial Truck Center of Bensonville, Illinois, in the amount of $94,265. The company was unable to fulfill the order due to the COVID-19 shutdowns.
 Item number nine, committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for police vehicles to Curry Motors fleet of Forest Park, Illinois in the amount of $94,348. That's $23,587 per vehicle. The vehicle purchase will include four Ford Escape vehicles, the funding sources capital lease fund. Item number 10, committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract
 Shelving for Evidence Facility, Shepherd Trail, to Bradford Systems Corporation of Elmhurst, Illinois, in the amount of $98,730. The funding source is bond proceeds. Item 11, committee recommends approval of the award of RFP EMS billing to Andres Medical Billing of Arlington Heights, Illinois, for an estimated $445,000.
 Annually, 4.75 fee on collective with no charge on GEMT. The contract duration is one year starting January 1st, 2021 with four possible one-year extensions with no increase over the life of the contract. Funding sources, the fire department operating budget.
 Item 12, award of RFP, towing and storage to greater Rockford Auto Auction of Rockford, Illinois. The city will no longer incur towing costs and the city will receive $100,000 in estimated annual revenue from the sale of seized vehicles. So contract duration is one year and four one-year optional rules. Item 13, award of non-competitive contract.
 Consulting services for the fiber installation. Her radio system to client first. First consulting group of Schaumburg, Illinois, in the amount of 65,000 hours. The contract duration is 1 year starting January 1st, 2021. With for 1 year with 4 optional 1 year extensions with no increase over the life of the contract on the sources, fire department operating budget.
 item 14 the word of rfp fiber insulation for radio system equipment to install routers to convert the ethernet signal to analog and provide the connection to radio equipment to tc communications of urban california in a month 209 683 dollars for the first year the 19 698 annual the contract duration is one year starting january 1st 2021 with four optional one-year extensions
 with no increase over the life of the contract the funding source is the fire department operating budget all savings will be steered far away from the fire department and into our general fund item 15 award of rfp fiber installation for radio which is for
 The radio system to provide fiber optic connectivity to radio repeater equipment for the city of Rockford Fire Department located at each of the 16 sites listed to Comcast Business in Boatbrook, Illinois in the amount of $37,936 for the first year and $33,936
 The contract duration is one year starting January 1st, 2021 with four optional one year extensions with no increase of the life of the contract funding sources of fire department operating budget. There are 15 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 15 items? Alderman McNeil. Thank you. Bear with me a second. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Number nine. Give me one second, Alderman McNally. We're having a hard time carrying that. Alderman Tunberg, I'm going to mute you just so we can hear Alderman McNally. Oh, thank you. Alderman McNally, sorry, so we can hear you.
 Number nine, we have an agreement with enterprise on vehicles. Do those vehicles in number nine, do they not come under that? And if not, why? Director or director Saunders. So are we, we did not pursue any sedans with enterprise. We really just looked at a couple of vehicles in our, in our, um,
 Public works for replacement, these vehicles had actually been on order from another vendor who could not fulfill the order. So we were, we were just quickly trying to get them ordered from a new source. Is that's why we're proceeding. At this, I believe that enterprise would not be able to get these would not likely be able to get these vehicles as quickly as the vendor that we're recommending award to.
 Okay, thank you. And then Mr. mayor number 15 and I chief. You had said there are 13 sites and. And this paragraph is a 16 sites are these different sites?
 Types of sites no, it's the same 1. I'm at 13. like, we have 13 other sites and we have the other 2 that are the main 1. so it is 15 total. But I was referring to the 13 that are outside of where our typical fiber line is.
 Okay, thank you very much. Sorry about that confusion. No, thank you. Good questions. Any other discussions? Yes, Your Honor. If I might, going back to number nine, following up with Alderman McNeely's question. I thought we were not going to be using sedans anymore. And I noticed that this one says the purchase will include four.
 Ford Escape Vehicles. So what are we using for police vehicles now? Is it a sedan or is it these escapes, which are sort of cross, I call them crossovers. They're a little like an SUV, but they're not sedans for sure. Is Chief O'Shea on? I am. So we use Ford Explorer for the patrol vehicles.
 Investigator vehicles include sedans like a Ford Fusion or an Impala or a Ford Escape or a Dodge Charger. Those are investigator models. They're not the police-marked vehicles. Okay. There are several different kinds we use for investigators for various reasons that I can explain to you. No, that's okay. These are more like administrative then.
 Yeah, these are detective cars. They're not marked. They have interior lights only. They're not responding to emergency. Okay, so there's no more packages that are going to be put onto here that would increase the cost, except the computer decks. Okay.
 RIGHT. AND MOST OF THE INVESTIGATOR CARS DON'T HAVE COMPUTER DECKS. THEY JUST HAVE THE INTERNAL LIGHTS AND SIREN, MINIMAL COSTS. OKAY. ALL RIGHT. THANK YOU. YOUR HONOR? ARMAN BEACH. ON NUMBER 6, COULD SOMEONE EXPLAIN AGAIN THE 8.75% INCREASES EACH YEAR OVER FIVE YEARS? DIRECTOR HACKERTY?
 Yes, Alderman, those were price increases that were part of the bid received from this vendor. All of the vendors that responded to this janitorial bid bid with similar increases year over year. We believe that those are likely being driven by minimum wage increases, but yes, there's
 Those were their bid prices for the six years in the contract, and they were comparable to the other bids received. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion on the 15 items? Yes. Alderman McNeely.
 Number 12, which is. Going back to the item that we went over before we got to the section, wanting to make sure that the number of years. That that comes back before you. Yes, thank you. No, good point. Thank you. Any other discussion.
 third please call the roll turkey hi logan hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi
 No, I'm six. I on the remaining. I didn't want to 513 eyes and number 612 is 1. No, I didn't 7 through 1539. Thank you. Uh. Number 8, I didn't a 1.
 under new business. An ordinance approving the agreement between the City of Rockford and W.A. Whitney Company, the City of Rockford agrees to release of its public bicycle and exercise permit easement for the property located at 650 Raceway. In exchange, W.A. Whitney Company will transfer four separate parcels to the city that are adjacent to city-owned parcels.
 I don't do an ordinance approving the renewal of the license agreement between the city of Rockford and Zion development corporation for continued use of 312. The avenue has a strong house for the rocker police department. There's 2 items before you is there any discussion on those 2 items. Could you please call the roll? Hi.
 Logeman, aye. Schoenberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Fervey? Aye. Irving? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Groves? Aye. Beech? Aye. Adonis? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Kuhn? Aye. Kuhn? Aye.
 13. Excellent. Item B, a relation committee in order to number one underneath that in order to approve the authorization for sale, the city on parcel located on six Avenue. So I need discussion. Please call the roll. Jersey. Okay.
 Aye. LOGAN. Aye. TUNBERG. Aye. BROS. Aye. IRBY. Aye. IRVIN. Aye. THOMPSON-CULLEY. Aye. HOFFMAN. Aye. ROSE. Aye. BEACH. QUINONAS. Aye. HANLEY. Aye. MCNEILLY.
 Alderman McNeely. Aye. Thank you. 13-9. Excellent. Better see if I can help with anything. Item number one. An ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement for exchange of services with Rockford Public School District 205 in support of Rockford 5-0 program. Is there any discussion on the one item before me? Clerk Lee, please call the roll.
 DIRKEY AYE LOGEMAN AYE TUNBERG AYE
 Aye. Ervin? Aye. Thompson-Tussman? Aye. Kaufman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beech? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No. 11 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain.
 Thank you. Next up, officer's reports. Just a couple of quick items from myself here. One is just a big thank you to Carl Franzen and his team.
 There was a tremendous amount of work that was done to get the hospitality grant in place, applied for one, the systems in place to get the dollars out. And Carl and his team did a really great job in doing so. So I just want to make you all aware of the work that went on behind the scenes. Secondly,
 Secondly, if you are following the COVID mitigations, I've been a little bit frustrated and have expressed such to Governor Pritzker regarding the mitigation levels that our region has reached as we've reached it about midweek last week.
 Just want you to know we are in direct communication with the governor's office and urging them to. We leave our region of several of the mitigations that are in place and the last 1 is.
 I don't know if you've had an opportunity to read Mike Cassidy's updates. Really frustrating yesterday, at least for me, when you look at the work that the feds did on their new relief bill. The idea that they continue to neglect municipalities and states is absolutely ridiculous.
 When you look at those who are literally on the front lines of government, they have totally failed us and forgot about us.
 I don't think it's because they don't have the money. I just don't think that they're placing your priorities appropriately. Seems like they continue to put in on both sides of the aisles or projects, but fail to get back to basics and ensure that we have the proper police and fire and public works and staff available to perform all the duties that we need to do. As they continue to print money,
 Our state historically has not really ever passed a balanced budget.
 on the front lines must pass balanced budgets and work within our means and the least they can do is provide us a little bit of relief which they continue to fill. I want you to be aware later on this week I'll be asking the mayors of Winnebago County to join me in signing a letter to the governor about some relief for restaurants. Also we'll be asking those same mayors in our county to join me in
 Writing a letter jointly to all of our local elected officials. At the state level, our state delegation. So that so that we can urge them not to cut our local government distributed fund. Every single time that they.
 have budget woes, they decide to cut funding from local municipalities. And then they have the audacity to create things like a property tax task force and things of that nature. Understanding the idea that we could all alleviate our property taxes if they stop putting unfunded mandates on us and stop stealing our money to fill their budget gaps. So we'll
 We'll make sure that you get copies of both of those letters as I just want to get their eyes on them. I believe it's Wednesday. Last thing, this week we lost two really wonderful people to our community.
 One was Dr. Jarrett, who is actually Aaron and Dan Jarrett's father. I personally did not have the opportunity to know Dr. Jarrett, but from everyone I've spoken to, they've just spoken glowingly of him. So, one, make sure that you are aware of that passing. Second is Tom Wartowski passed.
 in the last couple of days and really sad to see Tom Tom's passing. He, I didn't know him long, but over the last 70 years have had the opportunity to get to know him. Uh, and anyone had dealing with him knew that he was upfront. He was honest, uh,
 He would let you know exactly where he stands and incredibly passionate and how he advocated for items that he was in support of. But he also had a very compassionate side to him in helping so many individuals throughout our community. So with that, I'll hand it over to you, Dr. Durst.
 So, once I board Dr, dirty and he is. Is internet muscle now so we'll come back to Alderman. Thank you for all that a lot of good info there.
 I also thought the line of the night went to the mayor tonight, telling Alderman Toonberg, we're just going to meet you, Alderman Toonberg. So line of the night goes to the mayor tonight. And then I wanted to wish everybody happy holidays and Merry Christmas and just
 for any constituents that are watching with my day job. Oftentimes, I'm most vulnerable, don't really know where to go, especially in these COVID pandemic times. So I would encourage residents, if you don't know where to go, your city alderman could be a good initial point of contact. If you know, if you yourself need anything or know of anybody else. So I would encourage residents to keep your alderman in the loop. That's all I have, Mayor. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you mayor and. All of them will always love me in the punching bag of the city council. Hey, just wanted to mention, I enjoy or I like to see the opportunity. Zones the money coming in and for that.
 And, you know, that was a thing with Tim Scott from South Carolina that put together that with the administration. And that is a – the Opportunity Zones doesn't get talked about too often, but it is just such an integral part of something that can come to our community and help people.
 help in our parts that need it the most. So I think the money coming into the Opportunity Zones doesn't get talked about much, but I think it is just such a great program from the federal level coming down to our community.
 look forward to that, putting that to work and getting people to work in those parts of our community that need it the most. So thank you. Thanks, Mayor. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. I did have the opportunity to know Dr. Jarrett. He operated on me when I was in high school and college and he was a wonderful man. Not just a great surgeon that served our community for many, many years, but
 It helps start what's now known as the work of Illinois, but he also provided many, I think life lessons. He may have been a specialty surgeon, but he still had the bedside manner of a country doctor that gave great advice. So, my condolences to his entire family.
 I let Alderman Rose talk about it, but I got to join Alderman Rose. Hopefully, we'll speak to that award that we gave a Rockford resident that I might say was in the fourth ward. Normally, I have to hear from Alderman Toonberg about all these great things that are going on in the third ward all the time. Tonight, we had a chance to have an award in the fourth ward. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey.
 Your Honor, first, if I don't get another chance, wish everybody a very Merry Christmas, Happy Hanukkah, Happy New Year, whatever else we might celebrate out there coming up, and a safe one.
 FOR EVERYONE. THE OTHER THING I WANTED TO ASK AND FOLLOW UP WITH THE MAYOR, I THINK THE COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT JUST DID A YOMEN'S JOB OF, NUMBER ONE, GETTING MONEY TO HELP OUR BUSINESSES. I'VE HAD SEVERAL PEOPLE TELL ME THEY WOULD HAVE GONE UNDER IF THEY HADN'T GOTTEN THE PPP WAS A BIG ONE.
 And just some other other protections. What I would like to ask, though. If we have any kind of program for people who. If someone saying, I have to close my business, I can't go on any further. Do we have a point of contact or. Anyone that that we're telling people are sending a letter to people saying before you shutter your business, talk to us in the city.
 If we don't, that might be something to look at. I'm hearing just some really alarming figures nationwide about specifically the number of restaurants that may close and not reopen.
 And not the chains, but a lot of our smaller specialty restaurants, not the ones that have, you know, big conference and convention business and, you know, weddings and things of that sort. But your mom and pop, kind of like your backyard grills, you know, and...
 your wired cafes and wood fire pizzas. You know, I hope we don't lose too many of those, but I'd ask if we could keep our finger on the pulse. And same thing with city market. I know there were some clauses in the agreement that we were kind of concerned about, and I'd like to just know if any of those have come to fruition and how big of a hit did city market take?
 an indoor market and
 You know, make sure that we're we don't get caught off guard that something might happen to those places. What about BMO Harrison or what's happening with their bottom line? If we could just kind of get. Sort of a wrap up with those things maybe. Sometime after the 1st of the year. Maybe around February I know I'll be gone soon after that and I don't have to worry about it anymore, but I still care. So.
 I would appreciate that. Thank you. Absolutely. We can certainly get you some of that information. And obviously with DEMO, we did loan raise funding to keep them moving through this difficult time. I believe Alderman Durkee is back on. I'll go back to you, sir, for officer's reports. Thank you.
 Yeah, I'm back on. You sure you want to do that? I thought about it for a couple seconds, but we should do it. No, I just wanted to wish everybody on council, my colleagues, and also city staff and the city workers and our department heads, as well as the citizens of Rockford, really a Merry Christmas. This year has been tough, and we still –
 The challenges and there's a lot of a lot of forces that would. Love to divide us up as people and as Americans, but I keep think of anything more unifying than the Christmas message. And and the real significance of that.
 And I would be remiss not to quote C.S. Lewis, but when it comes to Christianity and what it teaches, he once said, if it's not true, it's of no significance. If it is true, it's of ultimate significance. What it can't be is of my significance.
 So as that true message of Christmas comes into play more in our psyche this next week, you know, let's make it a better year for all of us. So thank you. Merry Christmas to all of you. Thank you. See you. Bye.
 as we continue to go through the line here i'll just take one quick second remind everyone that we do not have a city council meeting next week our next time that we're going to be gathering is january 4th 2021.
 With that, Alderman Ervin. Yes, sir. Your Honor, thank you very much. I appreciate everybody else's words in regards to the holiday season. I, too, wish everybody a Merry Christmas. And, yeah, I have to emphasize, don't forget the purpose and the whole meaning behind this whole Christmas event.
 spirit holiday because traveling the world that I've traveled, I've seen that this time could also be one of the most heaviest times for people who
 uh, don't have relatives or people to, uh, celebrate with. And so, you know, they cling on to, you know, what this world has presented as Christmas, but the truth is, you know, the crisis is, is come, you know, and that's the purpose. And he's, he's died to set us free from the burdens of this world. And so, you know, wherever you're at tonight, know that, you know, uh,
 our savior has been born onto us in this season that could deliver us from COVID. You know, the, the, there's more issues than just, you know, homelessness that's going on, but you know, the, the everybody's struggling right now that can't make Christmas look like it would, it would used to be, or even the holidays. I don't know if it's just me, but you know, for myself, the holidays just aren't, they haven't been the same. And so, um,
 You know, what can we build off of? What's firm and what's stable and what's secure is the message of Jesus. And in this season of him coming to set us free from this tragedy that's taking place before us in our community, in our home, in our nation, in our families. You know, woe to the times that we're in. And thank the Lord that our Savior has been born.
 that's cool that's that's all thank you thank you alderman thompson kelly yes that he gave me this week on some very old old issues and i want to wish everyone please be safe out there and have a happy holidays thank you alderman hoffman
 Thank you. I just want to say to Kyle. Again, thank you for public work. They keep making me look good and I'm grateful for that. And I want to say, happy holidays and Merry Christmas to everyone.
 Thank you all the rows. Thank you. My, my deepest condolences out to the family and Dr family. Um, having worked under him under these jobs is. My just deepest condolences to them. So.
 I did want to recognize a few different people. I wanted to recognize one, our very own Maurice Watts, who has taken on a position as the secretary for the Illinois Black Caucus. So really great honor of his being a, not really a freshman legislator anymore, but taking on that leadership position. I think that's a great,
 at the state level and wanted to recognize them for that.
 I also wanted to recognize Barb Chidley, George Gaulewap from ComEd, Vicki Fogel from the Daphna neighborhood, and the team over at RACVB, the general, and what Balderman Frost talked about a little bit earlier. They got together in coordination with that group and myself, and we decided to offer up a prize for the family that, you know, did some creativity.
 some Christmas decorations and posted it to social media via the hashtag Decorate815. It was just really cool to see
 Alderman Frost and meet one of the residents that won that this past night. And the message was that so many more people are decorating this year. So many more people are, you know, taking up those reins because of COVID and just spreading the Christmas spirit. And so I really just would like to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and happy holidays. If you're,
 If you get a chance and it's not cloudy, check out that the great conjunction tonight out there with the planet once in a 400 year occurrence. And just just everyone enjoy their holidays and thank you 1, 1, real quick 1 to our city staff in public works, whether you're working in HR, whether you're working in the mayor's office on domestic abuse.
 There's so many departments, our city planners. I know we generally used to do a big party every year for them. And without their dedicated work to our city, none of us around the horseshoe would really matter. It's really a lot of the work that they do. We just follow through with the policies. And so a big thank you to all of them and their families. Thank you. Alderman Feach.
 I REALLY HOPE THAT WHEN THIS IS ALL OVER AND THINGS ARE OPENING UP AGAIN, THAT WE CAN GET TOGETHER AS A CITY FAMILY AND HAVE THE CELEBRATION OF THANKSGIVING FOR SEEING THIS THROUGH THIS ALL. I REALLY APPRECIATE THE WORK OF ALL OF OUR NON-FOR-PROFIT GROUPS. I THINK OF THE SALVATION ARMY, FOR EXAMPLE, BECAUSE I AM SOMEWHAT INVOLVED WITH THEM. IN FACT, 26,000 FAMILIES SO FAR THIS YEAR.
 and more is coming. And yet the generous hearts, the parts of the people who give and give and give to help those less fortunate, I thank you for all the groups. Thank you very much. I also want to thank those that bring entertainment, like through the Nicholas Conservatory. You can't go by there without just having pride in our community. It's a beautiful time. The Festival of Lights and other places that bring this kind of joy
 AND LIKEWISE, I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR CALLING ME WITH THE NEWS OF THE GRANTS THAT COME THROUGH FOR A COUPLE OF MAJOR BUSINESSES IN TOWN THAT NEED HELP AND THE HARD WORK OF CARL AND JONATHAN TO THANK THEM. I KNOW THEY'VE BEEN MESSED UP BEFORE, BUT WE CAN'T THANK THE PEOPLE ENOUGH. GOD BLESS THEM ALL FOR WHAT THEY DO. AND SO AS MANY OF THE OTHER COMMUNITIES,
 Colleagues have said we want to wish you the finest of Christmas greetings and Happy New Year. Be safe. I love you all. Thank you. Thank you. And for that gathering, we'll use the savings we get from the fire department operating fund to have a party. So thank you, Alderman Beach. We have the secretary puts that in the records. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 Alderman Quinonez. Yes, I'd like to also give Carl Franson and staff for the hard work they did helping the business out in Rockford. We really appreciate that work. And I wish everyone happy holidays and stay safe. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Alderman Hinley.
 Hi, thank you. Your honor. I would like to just say a quick thank you to everyone who participated in the luminaries over last weekend. It was just a really.
 Great night, beautiful night. Edgewater neighborhood, Churchill's Grove, some other parts over here and northwest part of Rockford participated. And it was just, yeah, it was fantastic. So thank you for everyone who came out to help do that. And happy holidays to all of you. And here's going into a new year, right? Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mayor, and let me say Merry Christmas to all of you. And to all of the residents and to the staff, the city staff. Wishing you all the very best during these holiday. Days and I would also want to. Point out, I received the email and I think all of us did. From Reverend Copeland from new Zion.
 THEY'RE HAVING A VOTER REGISTRATION AND A CHRISTMAS THEY'RE HAVING A VOTER REGISTRATION AND A CHRISTMAS GIVEAWAY AT 4726 JASPER STREET. GIVEAWAY AT 4726 JASPER STREET. DIDN'T WRITE DOWN THE DATE. DIDN'T WRITE DOWN THE DATE. SO IF YOU PEOPLE THAT ARE LISTING, IF SO IF YOU PEOPLE THAT ARE LISTING, IF YOU WOULD CALL NEWS ON AGAIN, I'M SURE THEY'LL YOU WOULD CALL NEWS ON AGAIN, I'M SURE THEY'LL BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO LET YOU KNOW WHICH BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO LET YOU KNOW WHICH DAY THAT IS. DAY THAT IS. AND THEY'RE SORRY FOR THAT. AND THEY'RE SORRY FOR THAT. BUT MERRY CHRISTMAS TO
 With that, I hope you all have a Merry Christmas. Is there a motion to adjourn? I move. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes. Clerk? Aye. Aye. Hoeghman? Aye. Tumor? Merry Christmas.
 Happy new year to everybody. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 In the land of Mr. Toys, aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Stanley? Aye. McNeely? 13 ayes. 13 ayes.