From Freedom Baptist Church of Rockford. Pastor? Let us pray. Dear Lord, we pray now that you would bless our mayor, our city council, our fire department and police department, our school district, and every citizen that make up this great city called Rockford, Illinois. I pray that you would bless the meeting we're in tonight. I pray that you would lead and guide this meeting tonight.
 And I pray that you would bless us to move with compassion and be mindful of those who are less fortunate than we are during this holiday season. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen.
 Doki. Here. Getchis. Here. McNamara. Here. Frost. Here. Irby. Here. Ronald. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Here. Newberg. Here. Beach. Here. Elie. Here. Beck. McNeely. Here. Shirelli. Here. 13, President. Thank you very much. We do have quorum. Thank you.
 So motion to accept the journal. We've got a motion and a second to accept the journal. Are there any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. We have a public hearing scheduled this evening on the proposed 2016 budget and appropriation ordinance. Alan Becker, are you going to take that? I am. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I hereby call the public hearing on the proposed 2016 budget and appropriation ordinance to order. Pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes.
 A public hearing must be conducted by the City Council prior to the adoption of an appropriation ordinance. Notice of the hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on December 10, 2015. That notice informed citizens of Rockford that a copy of the proposed budget and appropriation ordinance could be reviewed in the Finance Department, 3rd floor, City Hall Building, 425 East State Street in Rockford, Illinois from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. The proposed budget was also available online on the City's website.
 Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed appropriation ordinance? If so, please kindly step to the microphone in the galley and give us your name, address, and make your statement. And seeing none, this public hearing is hereby adjourned. Alderman Tumskalli, did you have a question? Yes, I did. Is this the 2016 city budget? Yes.
 and my question is and I was under the impression that we did not complete having a budget meetings I have to come up with approval of the final budget that's correct in the final budget is not have been approved yet it did come out of committee last week it's still subject to discussion and debate I'll buy a city council and I could be there's also modification of so I'm so did desired but the public hearing is something that
 occurs every every year and I can never around either finance director or legal director explain why we're doing it now I'm not the concern is that I was under the impression that they were going to be additional budget meetings discussed and with the information that we've been given and having at the opportunity to discuss it there is not scheduled
 okay to approve a budget that discussion hasn't taken place because the finance person and personal committee approved approved it out of committee so the budget is up on council agenda I believe later this evening and council will be free to take action on it or lay it over whatever might happen at that time
 So the hearing has been concluded. Next is public participation. Just to remind our speakers, they have three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. If speakers start to go, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is John Bentley. Good evening, Mayor Marci. I will also serve as a rock for the mayor.
 Proverbs 28 verses 13 said, It is a human nature to hide out of sins or overlook our mistakes. When it is hard to learn from a mistake, you don't allow it to make it. And what good is a mistake if it doesn't teach you something? To learn from the error, you need to admit it, confess it, analyze it, and make adjustments so it doesn't happen again. Everybody makes mistakes, but all their food repeats them. Next year will be Book Washington 101.
 It is a wonderful place to go back then after and during World War I and II. The reason there is because they did not want the blacks to come into the downtown area and the east side of the river. Now here we are 99 years later and the city council, like deja vu all over again.
 We also is here because there are some people that do not to this day want us to move over each side of the river. Where by the law we have the right to live and move into any area of this great nation that we want to. So this is why I must talk about our history right here in Rockford because there are some people that are going out of their way to keep us down without certain facts and label African Americans as lazy, liars, stupid, and stupid
 drug deal and I can go on and on forever. However, I only got three minutes. And by the way, my brother from the other level, we are not flies, but we are here to build just like everyone else in this room. Our African American ethnic group is deeply divided. Until we start working together, we will never be able to achieve our goal
 for better education, jobs, and safe living environment. Now who is talking about approval by walking compliance with the law that requires the city to affirm to be making fair housing and equal opportunities? How and why did we get to this point? I will tell you in the next two minutes. I have to break this down and give you the meat and potatoes of the subject. Some of the people in Newtown feared that the property value would be
 go down, but the residents of Fairgrounds were brave and low-drift, gay, violent, stupid, and a subject. Now look at the RHA residents of the side. Everyone in the middle of the RHA do not fit their description. However, both sides do agree that RHA did not do a good job of talking about what their plans are and do not trust RHA to keep their way. Oh yes, this is going to get me in Hollywood.
 and try to use the fear by always telling me about leasing fractures and leasing rates. This is why some of the workers and residents are afraid to speak up for fear of losing their job or place to stay. So this is one of the reasons why residents do not come to meetings unless forced to do so. On the other hand, I do it by faith.
 This is one of the biggest reasons why a lot of people watch and saw what happened after they turned out of Jerry Laddard. And James and family members vouched to move wherever they wanted to. And there, we all saw how that turned out. Some of the families moved into some nice neighborhoods. They brought total hell to that area. Plus when they did rebuild Jerry Laddard, R.J. did not let anyone move into Jerry Laddard. And the reason why they did that is because they wanted to make sure that Jerry Laddard was not a victim of the crime. They wanted to make sure that Jerry Laddard was not a victim of the crime. And they wanted to make sure that Jerry Laddard was not a victim of the crime. And they wanted to make sure that Jerry Laddard was not a victim of the crime. And they wanted to make sure that Jerry Laddard was not a victim of the crime.
 uh... the the the the
 And I just want to finish by saying we want to thank Mayor Morrissey and all the dignitaries and politicians that came to our Christmas dinner. We had over 130 people that showed up. And we also had a nice turnout this weekend at the Northwest Community Center with Mother's Prayer. And that was about the reason I rung off to the Blessed Vows of Christ. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, and I speak here as Toby Haldeman. My brother from another mother. I never called any race or people flies. The flies are the criminals, and the criminals come in all colors. The criminal who was home invaded, my mother and I, and held a knife to her throat was white and Hawaiian. Turner School is now privately owned by some entity. Who would be in charge of shoveling the sidewalk?
 Here is a public service announcement I would love to see. Picture this, our new police chief, Chief Pan, saying, Attention drug dealers, are you tired of the competition taking away your profits? I am here to tell you that the Rockford Police Department will help remove them from our streets. All you have to do is turn them in. How great would that be to have all the drug dealers turning each other in?
 The recent murder at Fairgrounds left four children without their mother. A group of concerned people started gathering toys and gift cards so the children would have something for Christmas. This is all well and good, but what about next year and the year after that? I believe it would be better to honor the children with the capture of the murderer. There are people out there who know who the shooter is.
 Crime Stoppers needs to saturate the airwaves with commercials and neighborhoods with billboards that say, stop the violence, end the silence. Stop the violence, end the silence. We all remember seeing those don't shoot posters all over telephone poles and trees after there was a shooting. It needs to be done again, but this time let's try doing it before someone dies.
 Silent community must end. By keeping silent, you perpetuate that what is happening is acceptable. It is not. Honor the children. Stop the violence. End the silence. When it comes to Newtown, remember this. It's not always about the law or what's on the books. It's about doing what's right.
 This administration and its attorneys want this to happen at any cost. If you don't do it, we're going to be sued. Admiral David Farragut said, Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead. Hire your own attorneys.
 Merry Christmas and have a prosperous new year. And finally, I would like to wish my great aunt a happy birthday. On Christmas Day, she will be 101 years old. Happy birthday, Aunt Madalena. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. The speech I had for the night I hopefully will hear next week. I've heard a rumor that I have to address and I hope I'm wrong. But you don't have to lawyer up to do the impossible.
 you don't have to lawyer up to stop revenge you don't have to lawyer up to end war you don't have to lawyer up to expand thinking you don't have to lawyer up to end prejudice you don't have to lawyer up to end violence you don't have to lawyer up to expand the money supply you don't have to
 lawyer up to achieve respect for all. The last time the smart people of Rockford who lawyered up to fight the people who care lawsuit cost everyone in Rockford an awful amount of money. You do not have to be a lawyer
 Or you do have to be a lawyer to spend an awful lot of money.
 but the only lawyer I can think of and they say the only good lawyer is a dead lawyer the only lawyer I can think of that might be able to help resolve the low cost housing problem would be Abraham Lincoln A-B-R-A-H-A-M L-I-N-C-O-L-N
 The only lawyer I can think of that might be able to help resolve the low cost housing problem would be Abraham Lincoln. The last time the smart people of Rockford who weighed up to fight the people who carry lawsuits cost everyone in Rockford an awful lot of money.
 thank you our next speaker is probably you sir ladies and gentlemen in the book of Philippians chapter 13 verses I can do all things through Christ which strengthen me but I want to talk about tonight youth unemployment is a social time bomb the United States have become a haven for its problem with food
 among young people. United States newspaper filled with stories of drunken lads, brawling gangs, beating, robberies, burglars, carjacking, knife and shooting, killing, and a generalized, unfurbished, uncivilized behavior and it could get worse. Last fall the government released figures showing youth unemployment is worsening. The rate of unemployment among 16 to 24 year old reach a record 30% with the number of youths drawing government benefits near one million. United States Unified
 unemployment rate is bad. Having so many young people idle is a social as well as an economic problem of critical proportion. A social time bomb is about to explode in the United States. Study after study has shown that youngsters who cannot find work are far more likely to commit crimes and an unemployment jobless than someone who has already been in the labor market. And I don't mind
 is a program for trouble, lacking purpose and the means of expending their energy productively. Many young people are spending idle time drinking, partying, others get together and roam the streets blanking on families, communities, and the elderly with their bullish, often vanquished behavior, crying
 time rape, violence, incidents of violence, wise King Solomon wrote in Proverbs 28 the 19th verse, he who says he who cultivates his land will have plenty of bread but he who follows worthless people and pursuits will have poverty. Young people are a valuable resource in any nation, every family responsibility even at the task of a responsible government is to cultivate the next generation of
 men and women into productive members of society. The United States families and leaders are failing in this end. The results of what Proverbs says will be poverty, economically more, and social unrest. I want to thank Congresswoman Sherry Booster for giving me a letter for doing Austin.
 and work for the veterans. She said, I've never seen a man like you and she also gave me this medal right here for being the most outstanding river rat in the United States Navy. She said, I didn't know that the people in Washington, but everybody in Washington know you properly. They should because I'm a decorated veteran. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Reverend Matthew Johnson.
 I think it's been passed out to some of you, you can look at. From a group of clergy and other folks associated with the Rockford Anti-Racism Network and other community leaders here, which I'll read most of for you. Our city has a problem with housing policy. This problem is a concentration of poverty, segregation by race in huge divisions, inequality of neighborhood services is not new, nor is it unique to Rockford.
 Other efforts to change these patterns have been halting at best. We would like to encourage you, the City Council and the Mayor, to take strong and strategic action to transform our housing policy so that all people, regardless of income, can live in neighborhoods of quality and safety and opportunity.
 We need a strong regional approach. You all know that. This approach must be guided by the principles of anti-racism and inclusion. Centuries of oppression are not erased overnight. You must be proactive. Use your best practices, find ways to deconcentrate poverty without diminishing the capacity for resilience and community, which can be essential. Do not delay or let personal or political agendas get in the way.
 We understand that the City Council is already under investigation from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. It is not one failure or issue that has caused this, but a pattern of inaction. We urge the City to be in full compliance with not just this investigation, but with the rules and the spirit of the Equal Housing Laws. Full compliance with the law is the best way to both avoid unnecessary interventions, legal costs we have paid a lot before, let's not do it again, and more importantly to do right for all the people.
 We also urge the council to approve the plat for Newtown without further delay. Knowing we need a better regional and strategic approach does not excuse these embarrassing postponements. Vote yes so the community can move on. Continued denials and delays do not serve our city as a whole, the current residents at fairgrounds, or at this point the people who live in the neighborhood now and need to know what's going to happen. Approve it, build the community supports so it can succeed, and move on.
 The time for finger-pointing and blame and politics has got to be over. The time for distractions is over. The time for barely veiled or unveiled racism and classism must be over. Your leaders, not just amplifiers of your most vocal constituents, heed. For those who will vote yes on the plat, and all those who will commit to a collaborative, anti-oppressive, inclusive work for a better housing approach, we offer our thanks.
 We hope that you will all rise to do your duty tonight, and in the months and the years to come, so that we can have a city of justice and opportunity and inclusion for all its people. Thank you. Thank you. Just as a reminder to everybody in the chamber, we do not accept catcalls, boos, or cheers for our speakers, and I'd ask everyone to be respectful to the evening's discussion. Thank you.
 Petitions and communications. Owen Shrelly. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a few items this evening. One is a memorandum from LaFleur Carrier Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a sale of vacant lot located at 307 North Central Avenue. The second item is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for a meeting to be held on January 20, 2016.
 And those minutes shall be referred to the Code and Regulations Committee on January 25th, 2016. Also a Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for a meeting to be held on January 20th, 2015. And minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on January 25th, 2016. All three of those items will refer to the Code and Regulations Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Matt. As we refer, I'll be back.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding electronic citation program fees, and I would like to refer this to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Madam. As we refer, further petitions and communications. Reports to committees.
 Thank you. I have the Winnebago County Animal Services 2014 Annual Report. There's a copy on each of the audits and staff. If you have any concerns, please feel free to contact Dave Peterson at Winnebago County. Thank you. Thank you. New Committee Reports.
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. On one item, the Committee on Planning and Development recommends approval of the Downtown Strategic Action Plan final draft. I would like to place this up for passage, but first suspend the rules. Second. In motion, second to suspend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rule is being suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would like this placed for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Yes.
 Alderman Frost. Thank you. I had a chance to read the Strategic Action Plan and meet with Mr. Sidney, and I'm just curious, while I was voting on passing the final plan, is there still time and room for modifications to the plan going forward? Mr. Pagnoni? No.
 Thank you, your honor. To answer the question direct, there would be opportunity to adjust the plan on a regular basis as may be needed by the direction of the council. Thank you, Alderman Hurley. Thank you, your honor. I had some trouble with my system and I want to make sure I didn't miss whether there is a three-year budget or a five-year budget for this. Where is that budget incorporated?
 I didn't see it. But I do know I could not access part of it, so. Mr. Kutner. Thank you, Your Honor. There is not a specific budget request as part of bringing forward the plan for consideration by city council. You know, the plan takes the TLC approach regarding tactical lean and climax.
 understanding that there's long-term projects that we're going to continue to work on on a regular basis as well as tactical tactics that can advance forward rather quickly, understanding that we are also...
 you know, taking on an approach that embraces many of our community members and organizations. It provides a guide, guiding them, as well as internal departments. So although there's not a specific budget attached to the plan, it does recognize that there are organizations that are funded. Certainly the city departments have operational budgets and we continue to work on advancing the initiatives
 you know ultimately when we began this process it was at the request of city council we are investing heavily in the downtown area with some significant projects the indoor sports factory being one of those we wanted to make sure that the decisions moving forward help support the existing investment that was taking place downtown the reason I asked when I was so concerned about it it's not the plan itself that
 I certainly support that. But we know that we have huge looming deficits coming up, at least in the next three budget years. And what I am concerned about is are some of the elements of the plan that are going to be quite expensive. And it just seems like they're not...
 in any plan they're not in any budget summer in the CIP or portions are in the CIP but I'm just concerned that the plan itself is great I don't want to see it stagnate if we
 ratchet this back a little bit for a couple of years and that's why I'm glad Alderman Frost asked his question because I want to see people get disillusioned because we won't have the funding for it. At the same time I don't want to see City Council wake up and have somebody tell us will you approve this in principle so therefore we're going to spend $2.5 million on the
 you know a project or something so I do want to see that incorporated into our financial plan as Alderman Beach has suggested that we do one for a two three and five year period but definitely longer than the one year that we currently have thank you. Alderman Lechman
 Thank you Mayor. I just want to first thank Director Cagnoni as well as David Sidney for the amount of time that they put into this plan at our direction. Also, I had the opportunity this past week to speak with a number of downtown leaders as well as the chairman for the River District, and River District has voiced their strong support of the plan.
 I certainly agree with Alderman Hervey and I think to an extent Alderman Frost on his question. There will be certain issues that I think we'll come across that maybe we won't be able to afford at this time but we do have a tremendous amount of momentum due in part to your administration as well as this council and the council before us.
 going on downtown and I think passing this plan is just one more step and if we need to at a certain time I think the folks that I've been speaking with are realistic about what our budget is and what we're facing especially next year and the following year but I would certainly appreciate everyone's strong consideration in support of this plan Thank you for the discussion Hearing none, clerk please call the roll
 Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odom. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Mellier. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven yeas, two nays. That passes. Thank you. Thank you.
 For the reports of committees, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5B1, items 1 through 10, I move to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Motion has been seconded also to suspend the rules. And Roman numeral 5B, items 1 through 10? Yes. Items 1 through 10, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I have it. Madam B. Rules, Mr. Pettit. Your Honor, my place, those 1 through 10 items up for passage. And the room number 5B1 through 10, those matters are all up for passage as their discussion. Parliament to Kirby. I request to separate item 10. But we'll take item 10 separately, so we'll take 1 through 9 first. Discussion on items 1 through 9. Thank you.
 I did receive several phone calls and emails with regard to the annexation of what's been referred to as the I-90 Island subdivision. I had a question. Perhaps someone who is familiar with the I-90 Island subdivision would like to know if there is any information that you can provide to the I-90 Island subdivision. I have a question.
 it was asked about what would the cost be and the process be for hooking up homes that obviously have the walls hooking up to the city and whether that would be required or not. So our concern seemed to be, a theme of the phone calls was that people were concerned that let's say their wall doesn't work next year and one is I think people feel that they
 that would be required to hook up to the city. And I don't know if that really is the case or not due to the infrastructure that the city has in the way or not of whether they could continue to have their wells operating. Who wants to take it? Mr. Hayes, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Craig-Noning? Mr. Craig-Noning, you want to start?
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's a county-wide ordinance related to the installation of wells and septic systems. First, recognizing that these are existing conditions,
 We have communicated with the Rock River Water Reclamation District as it relates to this particular island. They have not had any requests for service or record of septic systems that are failing within the neighborhood.
 But the ordinance on the county does allow for the ongoing and maintenance of existing wells and septic systems. And depending on the location of where a well may be proposed to be replaced or a septic system, there are some provisions that allow it. There's a distance requirement if you are, I believe it's 400 feet away from a public
 utility, then you are allowed to proceed with your existing well and septic system. Should
 within that distance, you would be required to hook up to the public infrastructure. Historically, what we've seen and the reason I made the statement that there hasn't been any complaints or requests for services related to sewer is that if there is a request for sewer, usually that's a common element throughout the subdivision.
 So led to believe, based on our discussions with the reclamation district, the current septic systems are functioning appropriately. At some point in time, should there be failures of the septic systems, historically the Rock River Water Reclamation District has done an assessment of the overall cost, and should there be a consensus of the neighborhood, they would work towards solutions. Our water, providing water,
 would go along the same way where we would do cost estimates, determine what it would be to serve the residents, make sure there was a consensus, and then come up with a plan to proceed. And then, Herbie, and then, Alderman Nail.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First, thanks to Mr. Cagnoni for providing a memorandum that answered a lot of our questions regarding the annexation. I guess the one that I find most objectionable is that we're not going to provide fire hydrants if we don't have water main in the area, but yet the people are eligible for city services for fire. Okay.
 and other EMS and other type things. Not having that fire hydrant means a higher insurance rate. And to me, that should be a benefit. If we're going to annex people into the city of Rockford, that's one of the great benefits of living in the city is having that fire protection. So I'm curious as to how we can say...
 If we don't have water service out there and ready, you just won't have it. We have great fire trucks, I know they carry water, but it's not the same thing. And to me this is another extension of we annex people into the city. Oh, I also saw street lights. If they want street lights, they have to pay a special assessment. Why? The city provides street lights to its residents.
 there is an unfairness with annexations when we essentially make annexed citizens second class citizens if they are going to be annexed into the city of Rockford and have to pay city of Rockford tax rates they should be eligible for all of the services that we offer
 to our citizens whether they choose to sign up for some of those such as water or septic immediately. But in this case, we are not even making it available and I think that is unconscionable, especially when it comes to fire protection. Further discussion Alderman Nolde? I agree with Alderman Harvey on that but my question is what about businesses if they hold licenses through Winnebago?
 When it comes time for renewal, they're going to get hit with a much higher rate from us. I mean... Business licensing? We don't do a whole lot of that. Is there a license for that? Ms. Hayes? For tobacco? Ms. Hayes, can you comment on that? Thank you. Um...
 First of all, I don't know how many of our neighboring communities license for tobacco, but we do. And that is just like any other tobacco licensee in the city of Rockford would face the same licensure.
 For liquor licenses, we have a substantial license fee that wouldn't attach, but they would have to apply for a license and go through our background checks and LTAB process to receive that license. I don't anticipate that for any of those individuals that are presently holding the license in good standing in Winnebago County that there would be any objection to them receiving a city license. They would have to pay the application fee and the annual fees going forward.
 So I'm not precisely aware of how much those may differ from the county's fee level, but they are consistent with all other liquor license establishments within the city of Rockford. Will this happen, these fees, would they have to pay before their liquor license expires once they get on XM, or after their liquor license expires?
 Each business has two different cycles. One is the city cycle that's set. April, we have our annual renewals. We have a mid-year renewal in October for the convenience of our liquor license holders. So we would want them all licensed by the city by April. They would have to apply in time for our February ZBA in order to be licensed by April.
 The state will require on renewal that they certify their licensure. And I'm not aware of whether any of them are in a state renewal that might be more complex. We might have to take some special action if they do. But we would assess that situation once they make their application and make certain that as it relates to the city of Rockford, we'd do everything that we could to make certain they could still function while their application was pending.
 As the Alderman know, we often make accommodations to existing license holders on transfers to make certain that they can continue to operate. Staff's ambition here is not to interrupt any operations to keep businesses open as long as the folks are in the application process. Thank you. Alderman Carter.
 so I have to but she's not businesses that both have liquor licenses that look that are on the agenda to be an extent so what you're so what mister has been stating is that they would have to pay that $10,000 fee and and now a problem this year
 That's a fee for a full liquor license that wouldn't apply. They would only have to pay the application fee that we make all applicants pay to go through the LTAP process. Which is how much? Generally, for a full liquor license, that's $1,500. And then the annual fee would apply based on their level of licensure. Depending on that, I think all of our full liquor license holders pay somewhere in the neighborhood of $2,500 a year for a full liquor license. Thank you.
 I'm turkey yeah I agree with on and her that this isn't just a small island it's actually a neighborhood and down I think if we're going to enact these things that we need to work with the residents of figure out at least some prior agreements and how we could assist in paying for services that we may mandate that the other question that I have is that
 correct me if I'm wrong, I don't know who would be able to answer this, but is the Winnebago County Health Department able to supersede the city and at certain times require a homeowner to hook up to sewer without going through the city? Mr. Hayes, do you want to take that? If you can.
 I think that our, the William and Abigail County Health Department can condemn the septic system and that might force someone into the sewer system because of the proximity of the existing sewer system and our interplay of our ordinances and requirements
 The idea with sewer systems being that when you intensively urbanize an area, that over time we're finding that septic systems in these close urban contexts just don't work over multiple generations. So the health department and the county, I think, are all...
 in line with the thought that we've got to get folks in that dense, urban, concentrated development onto sanitary sewer. It's just inevitable. It's going to come at some point in time. And so when the septic system fails, if sanitary sewer is within a certain amount of distance, then they're required to hook in. I would also point out that we have not had useful conversations with...
 subdivisions in the past until after the annexation has been complete as to the provision of services and how we might go about it. But we have successfully negotiated and resolved issues, albeit at some expense, with members of Bradley Heights and whatnot as it relates to how we
 how do we deal with the aftermath. You might recall the numerous conversations and iterations of a plan that we did in the Springbrook area as well prior to that. And so in these large areas where there's a large component of work, we work to do that. Finally, as to fire responses, before we were able to put
 fire hide-and-seek along Bradley Heights and the main work we did. Our fire department created a fire response plan and we were able to have full deployment for fire incidents and I'm sure Chief Bergston is prepared to offer full deployment of fire responses in the subdivision we're discussing right now, which is Larwin, Court, Mander, and things like that. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 Well, I definitely have concerns because when this was being discussed in committee last week, one of the things that I wanted to do was to postpone it until all of these issues that the aldermen are discussing was brought up and discussed.
 I haven't gone through this over two years ago I'm these things are going to take place and you are putting businesses and residents in a hardship I'm by passing this as quick as you have I think there should be meetings make it very clear to the residents that they
 I got the benefits the disadvantage the increase in all those things should take place not just to tell the argument so that they get the vote or the no vote that it should go to the residents the one that's going to have to pay the bill thank you for the discussion
 Supercenter morning if you could comment on the fire service to that area the question came up earlier and the issue on the hydrants How it relates to our service sure we do have a hydrants on Bell School Road located at the end of each of those streets Larwin and McKnight or meander drive I'm sorry that we do have a process in place when this goes through the
 the possibility of being annexed, we do an analysis of how we would respond and cover that area for the residential risks that we would have there. And we do have, on all of our fire trucks, we carry 1,000 feet of supply holes and 750 gallons of water. And we do have a plan in place to address if there's any type of structure fire on both those streets. Thank you. Thanks. Alderman Ditto. I was hoping, since Alderman VanThompson-Kelly brought it up, I thought we would have learned our lesson
 my mom and learn some mistakes and I'm I'm really hoping that maybe we could pull back on this and really do it right and talk to those residents I don't want to go down the same path of making the same mistake and I think it's only fair and we talked about education but yet we do have lack of so is there any way that we can.
 you know get better education to these people I'm before you go in there and do it anyway that just is a point of information in process the matters up for the first time I believe passage of counsel it can be automatically laid over upon the motion in the second of any alderman I mean
 I make a motion to lay it over, Your Honor. There's been a motion second to lay the, and I'm assuming it's the entire, all of the items that are up for part of the annexation vote. So that's items 1 through 9 under Rule No. 5B. Is that accurate? So there's been a motion second to lay those matters over. I believe that they will automatically lay over. Mr. Hayes, is that correct? Yes.
 Yes, sir. By state law, the matter lays over. That is relayed over. Thank you. Item 10, up for, that was separated. Is there a discussion? Yeah. Item number 9 was the approval of a final plan of advanced machine subdivision. I don't think that's part of it. Yeah, that was actually not intended to be part of it. You're correct. Item number 1, or 8, is the one that got relayed over. 8 and 9 aren't related to annexation. Yeah, it was only...
 there's one through seven my apologies I'm assuming the intention was only to lay over the annexation matters yes so the remaining matters that are will take separately and
 under Rm. 5B when we take them in order. Item 8. Yeah. 8 and 9. We can take them together. 8 and 9 first. 8 is the easement from the City Rock for the Conomet on the English Hill project for the property located at the southwest corner of South Water and Walnut. And number 9 is the final plan of advanced machine subdivision for 2500 Latham Street. Is there discussion on those items?
 Mr. Frost. I was wondering, with regard to number nine for the Platford Advanced Machine Subdivision, what that consists of. I think we had a diagram, but has it been vetted completely and gone through all of the preliminary and final approval processes? Well, I'll take that, Mr. Cagnoli.
 I couldn't fully hear the question, but the plat is a consolidation of a number of existing lots. The owner is proposing to do a future addition, and as a requirement to access Rock River Water Reclamation District, they're looking for the property to be on one lot of subdivision.
 The owner of the company, he or she already owns all of the subdivision lots already, is that correct? Correct. It's within an existing final plat. They're replatting to make one lot. Thank you. Further discussion on 8 or 9? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll on those items. Berkey? Aye. Getschis? Seeing none, aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye.
 Hervey? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelly? Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes on number 9. I'll never take your date again. 12 ayes and 1 abstain on number 8. Item 8 and 9 pass, and we'll take item 10 on number 5B. Thank you.
 It's the amendment to the stormwater management ordinance. After discussion. Any discussion on that item? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Berkey. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Kuhn.
 13 I. Thank you. Item 5C, finance personnel, all in back. Thank you, your honor. Item 1 is the vouchers in the amount of 6,576,136.52. Item 2 is the application for federal grant funds for early head start for 2016-2017 budget
 Three is approval of the final reduction request for 2420 Harlan Boulevard to $500. Four is the approval of the final reduction request for 1902 Hancock Street to $500. Five is the fine reduction request for 6218 Fireside Drive to $500.
 6 is the approval of 2015 non-union employee compensation ordinance provides a 2% general wage increase retro to January 1, 2015. 7 is recommending approval of the 2015 property tax abatement ordinance.
 8 is recommending approval of the 2016 fee schedule increases. 9 is the approval of the 2016 sanitation fee increase. And 10 is the approval of the 2016 budget and appropriation ordinance. I ask for suspension rules on these 10 items. For the motion, second, to spend the rules on number 5C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10.
 All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. I place them at the passage. That is at the passage. Alderman Beach. Your Honor, thank you. I'd like to just ask a question on the budget again. Are the two requests for the pensions, both placed in fire, the increased amounts, are they included in this budget, this 4216?
 yes they are you'll notice on your desk today and I would guess this is why Alderman Beach is asking the question I'm glad he brought it up that the pension boards submitted their requests for the contribution amounts we do have a lag in terms of our contribution it's a year after the year after the
 two years after the July report. So if we get a report for contributions in July that our actuary calculates, it's not for the following year's budget, it's for the year after that. So we are in compliance with a request for 2016 budget, and the information that we've discussed about the large increase that we're looking at for 2017 is you've been informed, we've talked about that, and that'll be our plan for 2017. Do you have the follow-up?
 Certainly. So then, sir, thank you. Then going into the 2017 budget, the numbers that you've showed the council going out five years, does that also include the layoff of increased pension costs that give us our totals? Yes, it does, Alderman Beach. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just as a general comment regarding the budget, I appreciate Alderman Detchis' resolution to use some of the sanitation funds so we didn't have to rely on streetlights, and it certainly is probably the preferred way to go about it than any of the other options.
 What I am concerned about, though, is that we've had some discussion, thanks to Mr. Black, about what we're going to be facing. Next year, a huge increase in pension costs, probably a $5 million to $7 million deficit.
 I'm talking about for 2017, not 2016. I'm sorry when I say next year, I mean next year's budget. If we're going to use the sanitation fund to plug a hole, I would rather use as much of that money as we can to plug a huge hole rather than taking what about 750,000 roughly for this year.
 I thought about it over the weekend, and I still believe we can look into this year's expenses and find better ways to reduce those, because if not, next year...
 This year, the administration brought to us, you know, cutting, not cutting, but not filling 14 police officer positions. Next year, our backs are going to be against the wall. So what's going to happen? We're going to have to cut 16, 18 because we have an even bigger deficit. We've got a proposal tonight to take $150,000 out of the police budget for citizen reentry, which I'm not opposed to.
 But yet, next year, we all know where that money is going to have to come from, or where we're going to start looking for that money, because it's going to be a significant deficit. And I still believe that we need to roll that $700,000 or whatever it is over to next year and go back to the drawing table for the next two weeks or so and find better ways to cut this budget for this year. Alderman Thomas-Culley.
 I totally agree and I was looking forward to more budget discussions after we were given the numbers for 2017 and 2018 to see how we could lead into the deficit that we're going to be facing. I really am curious to know why we have to pass the budget now when all the questions are not answered and explain what it is the aldermen want to take place.
 I was somewhat surprised that the budget was actually approved by the committee. I knew that the resolution that Alderman Goetzes suggested was going to be discussed and potentially voted on.
 I am not trying to ram the budget down everybody's throats and I am more than happy to have more discussion at committee if we want to send it back to committee. If there are still unanswered questions or other ideas people have of how we can trim that deficit, I know that a lot of us were not in favor of the RMTD cut. I personally wasn't knowing that it would have a $750,000 impact on our budget for our $250,000 cut.
 and I don't think any of us were looking forward to the battle of taking down more streetlights but again I'm more than happy to pull it back you know and I know that staff always like to see us try to get the budget passed by the end of the year and you know it's always a goal of ours but I mean we do have more time and so if that's the will of the council we can certainly pull it back and have more discussion. Alden Goetzschis was next. Just
 I'd like to comment on my thought process with using the small withdrawal from the sanitation fund now. The one piece of information that we don't have that impacts the 2017 budget is any impact on the local government distributive fund since we don't have a budget coming out of Springfield. So we're not going to know, who knows when we're going to know that.
 So my thought process, the 2017 and beyond budget, we're going to have to make hard policy decisions. And there's a lot of things we're going to have to put on the table and my recommendation would be after the first quarter next year, we start getting into the budget. So my thought process, if you do things like take street lights down now and then decide oh I'm still going to have to go, and just use this as an example, I'm going to have to go cut X number of police officers.
 Well, would you really need $750,000 worth of street lights on a $5 million deficit? Wait another year, see the whole picture that we have to tackle, make the policy decisions going forward and come up with something that's going to last. Right now, we don't have that full picture. We just got, fairly, in the last few months, since July, we've had a lot of
 but we didn't have last year when we did this the information on the 23% increase in the pension funds but we know what that is now and I think that should be fairly consistent so my thought process, we're on that last piece of information sit down, have some meetings as to how we're going to address that and give staff the marching orders going into the 2017 budget
 that's just what I was looking at because we don't still have all the information that we need and that information is outside of our control but I'll go back to saying if there's still additional discussions that need to be had I'm obviously open to I'm going to move that and send it back to the committee
 there's been a motion to send the item back to committee it's been moved and seconded Mr. Hayes, parliamentary wise there's no problem with us we still have plenty of time to pass procedurally wise and the state rules to pass our budget yes sir, the motion's in order thank you, motion's appropriate is there discussion on the motion? Alden Beach, I know your hand was up before we'll talk about it at committee
 discussion motion on the turkey this is not a discussion on motion on another item on I that's just that there's a motion to send that that budget item which is under Roman numeral 510 budget appropriation ordinance back to the Finance Committee wanna see if there's any additional discussion that motion on beach possible that at our next committee meeting that I think one time we started at five o'clock
 And to give us more time on that and bring it back as quick as we can. Thank you. Yes. Thank you, sir. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. And also, Your Honor, I would like to request a report on the Partners Program where we're spending over $300,000 on our Partners downtime, what the dollars went for, and also the projected dollars for this year.
 Mr. Cagnone, I believe, was planning on referring that item at our next meeting. Is that accurate, Mr. Cagnone? That is correct. For 2015, I provided a third quarter report from all the funded partners last week, and I anticipated making the referral for the 2016 proposal on the January 4th meeting to be heard the following week. All right, thank you. Could we get that in sooner? No.
 If you've got information that you could send it out, email it prior to then, feel free to do so. Thank you. For the discussion of the motion, the motion is to send item 10, the budget appropriation ordinance, back to the Finance Committee. Hearing none, all those in favor of the motion, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. That will refer back to the Finance Committee. So the items are still up for passage.
 of the Finance and Personnel Committee agendas or discussion on those items. Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. On item 8, it's our fee schedule and I know staff sent out an email to Alderman earlier this week in regards to the alarm fee and just wanted to see if there was an appetite by council to
 and actually, I guess, before there's an appetite with council, talk to staff and see if we can have some direction from staff to remove the fee for those folks who are purchasing their first alarm for their home. It looked to me that we get about $36,000 for those who, from the permit to the initial fee, for those homeowners who are purchasing an alarm system to protect their home. And just was wondering if...
 Alderman feel that is a significant amount of money that we keep that in to the fee schedule or if that's something that maybe we bend on to help maybe incentivize and also reduce any impediments for folks getting home alarms. Chief Person, can you explain how the alarm system fees work and what the impact would be of a waiver of the initial fee? And Mr. Black, chime in as necessary. Thank you.
 Go ahead, Chris. Thank you, Mayor. Just quickly, and Chief Berkson can talk a little bit more about some more stuff about the direct impact as a service that's provided. This is a $25 initial fee. There's no renewal fee on an annual basis. This is a $25 initial fee. We're about $670 a year, about $16,000 that we get from 
 parties that are applying for alarm. That's information that we have to maintain over time. We have that information submitted to a third-party vendor that we pay a commission. It certainly is a
 an initial fee that's covering some of it's covering a small part of our cost to maintain data and provide service for contact information for persons that have alarms just to make sure I understand if we waive the initial fee there will be no fee yes correct there would be there would be no fee for having because you only pay it's a one-time per address fee correct
 Do you have any information you want to share about the system? For the fire EMS, for when they have alarms,
 our leverage is the fee so when we respond to somebody that has a fire alarm or has a lift assist the button that you hit for help when we show up if there's nobody there and they don't have a sticker on their window and respond to an alarm the only way that we have for enforcement compliance is that then they will receive a bill for $200 that they do not have their alarm registered with the city of Rockford that gets them to register for the $25 fee they don't pay the $200
 bill, when they come in to register their alarm they only pay $25 then they're registered. What helps that out operationally is that our units are out on the street, they're able to identify quickly who lives at the address, the contact emergency numbers if we don't have access to so we can call and verify is somebody injured in the house or is someone coming home to let us in so we don't have to force entry to the building, that they're in compliance with that. So that's what helps us out operationally on the fire side.
 Thank you. Alderman McEwen. Okay. Would it be fair to say then you would consider it a safety hazard not to have that? I don't want to propose something that you think could be potentially dangerous. It would be beneficial to continue to have that because if not, when we respond and we send our notice to them, there's really no incentive for them to come in and register their alarm. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Alderman Durkee. Thank you.
 Thank you, just sort of a mundane comment on item number five. This is a house that actually is in my neighborhood, and I see that the property has exchanged hands. I just want to make note of it that this property fell under disrepair while the occupant, there's an out-of-town landlord, while the occupant was receiving a Section 8,
 voucher and the property was not held up to HUD standards so this property actually fell into disrepair when it should have been inspected by whoever distributed that section 8 voucher just want to make that comment thank you for the discussion so all for passage as a reminder on a room number 5C items 1, 2, 3 4, 5, 6, 7 8 and 9 are all up for passage
 Any further discussion on any of those items? If not, please call the roll. Berkey. Berkey. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irving. No on number nine. I am the manager. Connell. No on number nine. I am the manager. Thompson-Kelly. No on number eight and nine.
 Aye. Aye on the remainder? Yes. I'm sorry. Odom? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? No. Yep. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? One number eight. Aye on the rest. Browner one through seven is 13. Number eight is 11 to two. Number nine is...
 9 ayes, 4 nays. That is all passed, thank you. For the reports of committees, officers' reports, I'm just going to do my officers' reports briefly from the chair this evening. Just very quickly wanted to mention congratulations to our continuum of care related to our efforts in homelessness and many partners from the VA and other partners such as the Robert Housing Authority
 and all of the partners who are part of our community action agency for the successful announcement last week that we had reached a goal of ending functionally veterans' homelessness in the city of Rockford and being recognized as the first city in the country to obtain the verified success of functional zero related to a 2016 goal nationally.
 that have been set that's beyond even the initial charge of ending veterans' homelessness as a challenge out of the White House and President Obama's wife, Michelle Obama, an initial challenge to mayors to end veterans' homelessness.
 The fact that we're the first city in the nation to be recognized for being a good achievement which essentially means we've shown the ability to rehouse veterans within 30 days, within a given month. Any new veterans that become homeless, we've been able to demonstrate our ability to get
 rapidly within a 30 day period it's a great testament to an incredible partnership and some lessons that we've applied starting at the beginning of 2015 using a common intake process to make sure that we give a very personal approach to every veteran that became would be homeless no matter which partner they may start with their efforts the effort was to identify each one of these individuals and then
 work to make sure as a team we get them housed as rapidly as possible. That success is something that we want to apply next year to overall chronic homelessness and apply that approach to a number of very difficult issues that we are dealing with. Focusing and building these lists to make sure that these very difficult social, economic and human services challenges are being met to the best of our local ability with the resources that we have. So again, congratulations to everyone involved.
 Finally, I want to wish everybody a very Merry Christmas. It's been a challenging year. We've obviously, you know, we've got challenges ahead in 2016 and beyond. But I'm grateful for all of the work of our city staff. I'm grateful for the opportunity to be here. I'm grateful for the opportunity to be here. I'm grateful for the opportunity to be here. I'm grateful for the opportunity to be here.
 the opinions and the approach of our council although sometimes we debate and sometimes vigorously debate these issues that we have before us I am very encouraged that we are taking steps forward to move the community forward in a very positive way for many years to come. I just want to also mention Jim Ryan will be distributing a memo probably later this week, it should be tomorrow or a little bit later in the week that will be an update
 and the district policing construction of the three stations and we will be able to set an upcoming city council meeting to review that memo and have any other discussion on the status of the three district stations. I'm sorry, Alderman Hervey. With regard to the district stations.
 Can we also, somewhere early in next year, I know Alderman Goetz just mentioned, maybe within the first quarter, before we make decisions on the police stations, could we get an update on all of the major outstanding capital costs that are unbudgeted, not in the CIP, but we may incur in the next year, including the police stations,
 anything else I know we've got a couple of other projects out there yeah certainly and I think a good chunk of that was covered in Mr. Vittner's public works CIP presentation but if it wasn't Mr. Allen if you can work just to make sure Alderman Hervey's request is met and the information that we'll be discussing Alderman McEnery thank you Mayor I just wanted to recognize and
 I have the city recognize a third ward resident, Rick Nielsen, who was just recently inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. I'm sure over the years we've done proclamations for Cheap Trick, but maybe we could consider doing something of that nature, a Cheap Trick Day, to honor him.
 the group's success and induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. That's a great point, and we have done efforts to recognize them in the past, and I know there was some discussion over the last week since the announcement was made that they'll be inducted, that we're hoping to do something very special for them, I think, as a community. That'll be, I believe, April or May, the events coming up next year. Thank you. Alderman Beach.
 Thank you, Mayor. I had the privilege this past week to ride down to Champaign with our interim chief, the whole end of Deputy Chief Mike Dahlke, and also Sergeant Kurt Weisman to see the eight officers that were trained at their diplomas.
 I've never experienced that before. I don't know. I'd like to say there were 2,000 people there for that particular thing. We're very proud to see our men have gone through the 12-week take-your-test. I don't know whether the grades are out yet or not, but they took their test. But to see them with a great trainer style and ready to go to work.
 I understand today on the streets, but I wanted to say thanks to the PD for allowing me to ride along and experience that this last week. Congratulations to our new officers. Thank you. We'll have a swearing-in ceremony coming up for them on January 5th.
 Alderman Shrelle. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to congratulate the Brian Boyer Agency and my ward. They're at 5192 Harrison Avenue. Tomorrow's a ribbon-cutting for their expansion that they have recently done. They've expanded from 2,400 square to over 4,000 square feet. They're hiring
 six new full-time employees, which I'm very proud of. And they are in their new expansion. They have a community room for the people in the community to be able to come and use their free Wi-Fi. And it's also a hospitality center for them. So, again, congratulations to the Bryan Boyer Agency. And I also want to thank the Rockford Fire Department for an outstanding job they did at the Alpine Luther Academy this past...
 past week. They did a great job and everyone that was involved in it called me and said how wonderful they did. Thank you, Chief. And a Merry Christmas to everybody in the room here and also to all the constituents in the 14th Ward. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. A couple things. One, just to remind everybody that there's continued Free River Lights performances downtown until January 2nd. Sundays through Wednesdays, there's two performances per night at 5.30 and 6.30. And then Thursday through Saturday, there's three performances at 5.30, 6.30, and 7.30. Thanks to all the people who worked hard to make that happen. I'd just like to thank...
 Public Works Department, police and fire for their support of last Thursday's at Keith Creek Tree Lighting celebration. I know my son William loves seeing the police cars, fire trucks, Santa Claus and the lights. It was a great event, great support and my thanks to the citizens of Keith Creek who they do a great job staying engaged in their neighborhood year-round. I really appreciate the support that we're able to give them, not just at this time of year but year-round.
 I'd like to echo Alderman Shirelli's wishes of Merry Christmas for everybody in the city, and thanks for my colleagues and city staff for another great year of hard work for the city of Rockford. Thank you for the officer's reports. I'll move back.
 Your Honor, I am going to move that we go into closed session for pending and threatened litigation, labor negotiation matters, and other consideration of retention of outside counsel. Second. The motion and second to recess at this point in time in the meeting.
 to go into closed session to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters, labor negotiation matters, and consideration of retention of outside legal counsel. Any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Getschus? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Purvey? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Aye.
 Beach, Elliott, Beck Chiarelli 13 ayes your honor that passes we will we can address that in closed session thank you the motion carries we will recess order on the agenda and we are at unfinished business
 I believe Alderman Beck had to leave so if Alderman Hervey could pick up the finance and personnel items under the agenda that are remaining. Certainly. Alderman.
 Thank you. Alderman Shirely, are you prepared on Roman numeral 7B? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. Under Roman numeral 7B1, the committee recommends approval of the final plat of number 3 of the Newtown subdivision. Your Honor, I move to lay that item over. Second. I'm going to motion and second to lay that matter over. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The matter will be over. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have under unfinished business item C1, which is recommending approval of the returning citizens intergovernmental agreement for services for 2015 through 2018 between the City of Rockford, Winnebago County, United Way of Rock River Valley and Rockford Reach Out Jail Ministry. Funding sources, the police department operating budget.
 Is there a discussion? Alderman Newberg. I make a motion. We lay it over. Second. Is there a motion and a second to lay the matter over? Is there a discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. I'm sorry. Who was a no on that? Motion carries. We have a layover. Roman numeral 8C. Alderman Hervey. I'm sorry. That was laid over from...
 before. Roman No. 9, motions and resolution. I'm sorry, Your Honor, No. 8C. Yes, that was laid over. Yeah. Roman No. 9, Olam Derki. Thank you, Your Honor. There is one item. This is a request for approval of the Application for Technical Assistance Scholarship Program through the Center for Community Progress. The Planning and Development Committee recommends approval. Is there discussion? No.
 This is on the request for application of technical assistance for the Center of Community Progress. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. If I remember correctly, I don't have the actual report up on my tablet right now, but this was going to require a payment on behalf of the city. It's titled a scholarship program, but if I remember correctly, we actually have to
 wasn't a small amount of money either and I didn't understand that I think it was ten or fifteen thousand dollars. Mr. Cagnone is that yours? Yes your honor thank you there is a ten thousand dollar matching requirement in the grant submittal you are correct. Any further discussion on that? Alderman Thompson Kelly. Wasn't it ten thousand dollars plus expenses if I can remember correctly? Mr. Cagnone. That would be.
 that would be correct there we are engaging some of our partners and the preparation of a grant application and I'm not certain we're gonna incur any costs for their assistance but wanted to make sure that we identify that in our staff report well I think the same partners that were paying to be partners no this is the part of the the our map group specifically the northern Illinois Economic Development District
 utilizing their team. They have quite a bit of resources in grant writing. Thank you. For the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. LaProsse. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Cronnell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Kuhn. Aye. Kuhn. Aye. Kuhn. Aye.
 Eight for your honor. Eight yeas, four noes. That passes. Thank you. Alderman Shirely.
 I have four items. The draft of the 2016 council calendar for the city council and subcommittees. Number two is the adoption of the revised flood insurance study and flood insurance rate maps. Number three is electric fences, consideration of text amendment to zoning ordinance related to the electric fences, directing staff to file a text amendment to the zoning ordinance. And number four is the approval of settlement of Meade v. City of Rockford case...
 Number 9L410, in the amount of $475,000 with release to be obtained. Your Honor, on number 4, I'd like to suspend the rules. You know, I don't believe we need a suspension of the rules on that, Mr. Hayes. Is that accurate? If it wasn't presented at committee, I've asked the alderman to suspend the rules on that. We'll also seek a suspension of rules on the approval of the Aspen contracts. Thank you, Your Honor.
 So there's been a motion, second, to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 9B4. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Do I place those items up for passage? So all of the items under Roman numeral 9B, items 1, 2, 3, and 4 are all up for passage. It's a discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Gets us. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Irving. Connell. Thompson. Kelly. Aye.
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elie? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12. Yates? That is passed. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey? Thank you, Your Honor. The next question is on C4. For the self-sourced contract, when you practice ammunition, it is $3.97. For the self-sourced contract, it is $2.00. The next question is on C4.
 We'll have to avoid social benefits, both nationwide and for both currently the teams present for singles and the hours of the meeting. The total payment is $599.20. I would like to raise a resolution. I have mentioned on the public center that the LP is being counseled. The city's responsibility is to all the issues that are being dealt with and to not be as
 I'm going to announce the recommendation for the City of San Francisco. I'm going to request the school board to move 11 number 4, which is the board did, for demolition for group 10. G&G Construction, $77,080. NTRC, $7,000. Services, $297. We're totaling more than $108,000.
 for practices from the data tab, the public source, the assembly committee, and the market forum. The voting process has been made on. Second. Motion and second to suspend the rules on enrollment numeral 9C4. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. So those items are all then up for passage on enrollment numeral 9C items 1, 2, 3, and 4. So discussion. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll.
 Durkee. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. No. C. 4. Frost. Herbie. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 11 ayes, 1 no on number 4. 12 ayes on the rest. That is passed. Thank you. New business on Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Planning and Development has one item. It's the ordinance authorizing the downtown strategic plan, the action plan, final draft. I'd like to suspend rules on that and place it up for passage. In a motion, second to suspend the rules on the downtown strategic action plan, final draft. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'd like to place that up for final passage. That is up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Durkee. Aye. Hitches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Irby. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Chiarelli. 11 ayes, 1 nay. That is passed. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under new business ordinances 10b, I am...
 Well, we already laid over item number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, Your Honor. So item number 8 and 9, I'd like to suspend the rule. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 10B89. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have the rules. It makes those two items up for passage, Your Honor. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Thank you.
 Durkee. Aye. Etches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 12 eyes on 9 11 eyes and one abstain number 8 that is passed thank you over her runner under item C for finance and personal have eight items I'll be requesting to I suspend rules 11 and 15 on items 7 and 8 the first is an ordinance approving the application for the federal grants for head start for the 2016 17 budget year and early head start
 number two is an ordinance approving 2015 that non-union employee compensation are providing for 2% general wage increase retroactive to January one of 2015 item three is an ordinance approving the 2015 property tax abatement item four is an ordinance approving the 2016 fee schedule increase item five is an ordinance proving the 2016 sanitation fee increase item six is an ordinance approving
 I'm sorry item 6 didn't back lay over item 7 is an ordinance authorizing the mayor and legal director to execute the 25th a 2015 16 collective bargaining agreement with ask me 1058 item 8 is an ordinance authorizing the mayor and legal director to execute a 2015 16 collective bargaining agreement with ask me.
 1058 B and I would request to suspend the rules on item 7 and 8. Thank you there has been a motion and second to suspend the rules on items 7 and 8 regarding the AFSCME 1058 and 1058 B collective bargaining agreements for 2015 and 2016. Is there any discussion? I'm sorry. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended.
 I place those items up for passage. That is up for passage. To discussion. Hearing none, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Getches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Furby. Aye. Donald. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 12 ayes on everything 1 through 3, 11 to 1 on number 4, and 5 through 8, 12 ayes. Sorry, 6 was held up. That is passed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 before the council. Is there a motion to adjourn? There's been a motion and a second. Second. To adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.