This evening we have an invocation by Chaplain Norma Barrero. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we ask for your presence and by way of wisdom and knowledge, strategy and counsel, as this meeting continues to flow and progress the city of Rockford. In your name we pray. Amen. Amen. Close pages to the flag of the United States of America.
 to the republic for which it stands, one nation, uniting in justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Ross. Here. Tarina. Here. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Here. McNeely.
 Bonnie? Here. Durkee? Here. 13 present. Excellent. Nearly everyone's here this evening. So is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on November 1st, 2021? What's going on? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. All right.
 Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on November 15, 2021? We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing none, all those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. We have no proclamations. We actually have a presentation, but before I get to that presentation, we do have...
 One item and that is Jennifer Kuroda and Jackie Good evening. My name is Jennifer Kuroda and I'm the president of Sinissippi Audubon and the Audubon Council of Illinois and
 Modeled after the highly successful Bird City Wisconsin program, the Audubon Council of Illinois is pleased to announce Bird City Illinois beginning in 2022. The Audubon Council of Illinois has been working to develop this program for the past two years. Three chapters of the National Audubon Society Lake County, Northwest Illinois, and Sinissippi here in Rockford have piloted the program during that time. As a result, three cities will be receiving an early designation of Bird City Illinois, including Rockford.
 To become a bird city, both public officials and citizens demonstrate an active and ongoing commitment to the protection and conservation of bird populations and their habitats. If a community meets at least nine of the criteria of the program, it becomes an official bird city. Rockford passed a bird city resolution in October, which was one of the first steps.
 I would like to highlight a few of the other accomplishments that met the necessary criteria. These are not accomplishments by Cinesipia alone, but other organizations like the Rockford Park District and the Natural Land Institute. Under category one, which is Habitat Creation Protection and Monitoring of Natural Communities, the Natural Land Institute Conservation App programs are designed to encourage private landowners, businesses, churches, and schools to become actively involved in community conservation efforts.
 Sandy Hollow Golf Course is recognized by Audubon International. The Audubon Cooperative Sanctuary for Golf is an award-winning education and certification program that helps golf courses protect our environment and preserve the natural heritage of the game of golf. Additionally, our youth board member, who is my daughter here, Jackie, she has been leading an initiative to monitor the American kestrel in our community.
 And that project will begin with nest boxes, which we will install before February on three of the Rockford Park District golf courses. Under public education inclusion, these are two of my favorite programs that Cinesipi has worked on for the past few years. The Audubon Mural Project and the Paragon Falcon Nest Camp. The Audubon Mural Project has grown to include seven murals that depict 23 species of birds that are climate threatened. We lead mural walks to educate the community about these birds.
 that are native to our flyway as well as educate them on as well as educate people on the artists who have created these murals it's also exciting to think about what the future holds the rockford public library will install bird friendly glass as part of its new design window strikes contribute to the rates of bird mortality in a significant level each year as birds migrate in the spring and fall the mission of birds in illinois is to encourage communities in illinois to implement sound
 bird conservation practices by offering recognition to those that succeed in enhancing the environment for birds and educating the public about the relationships between birds and people. Birds are so important to Illinois economically, aesthetically, ecologically, and scientifically. Illinois has a huge responsibility to keeping bird populations robust and thriving. The grassland birds that call Illinois prairies home are amongst the fastest declining species of birds in North America.
 And right here in Rockford we have a prairie that is at threat to urban development. This is essential habitat for birds and it is my hope that the Bird City program through this development in our community that we can help bring awareness to these issues and prevent them from further destruction of habitat.
 In addition to conserving birds in their habitat, the designation is something that cities can be proud of achieving. Bird city communities can build connections, foster partnerships, and bring birdiness. You may know that birding actually is a billion-dollar industry in the United States. So a lot of people, especially during the pandemic, have become birders. The designation of Bird City ensures that Rockford will continue to be an ideal location for observing and learning about birds, and Mississippi Audubon will ensure that
 continue to foster this program within our community so it's my honor to present this award to the city of Rockford which is also my hometown so congratulations there's a certificate we will be doing more being just municipality signage but I had an issue with the artwork so they're going to redo them for this for us so I will bring some signage back that can be probably displayed in the community as well thank you and thank all of your pertinent
 Thank you. Next we have a presentation by Marathon for our year-end review.
 director hunter did you want to introduce them or are we ready for them or should we go to public comment first are we ready yep no we're ready okay so um linda and lauren will be presenting to us the year seven review of the operation of our wellness center so they will be giving us an um global overview of the operations of that center so we will go ahead and get started
 That's great. Thank you for the introduction, Cherie. Can you all hear me okay? Yes, we can. Perfect. Wonderful. My name is Linda Votel. I am the client advocate for City of Rockford Wellness Center, and joining me on the call today is Lauren May, who's our regional vice president and actually was the client advocate prior for City of Rockford, so she's got a lot of historical knowledge there.
 We appreciate the opportunity to present to you our year 7 data review and we will try to make this pretty quick because we know you've got some other things to get to after this. Todd, I think you're driving the slides for me if you wouldn't mind to move to the next one. Thank you so much.
 So just a little bit about what Marathon Health does. We really work with your population to try to make them as healthy as they possibly could be. We really look to identify the risk in the population, whether we are doing biometric screenings, health risk assessment, we look at your insurance claims data, really trying to find the highest risk individuals, whether they have a chronic condition or maybe their blood pressure is elevated, something along those lines, try to find those individuals
 and then empower them to create some new health behaviors. So the whole goal is to get people in that higher risk category to a lower risk profile. We do that by mitigating that risk with new health behaviors. We work with individuals to complete health coaching, disease management, making sure that they're taking medications that are necessary to keep them healthy,
 And once we introduce those new health behaviors, the goal is to really help people make smarter health care decisions. So we're trying to alter that risk profile, bring them to a lower risk, discover maybe some undiagnosed conditions that people are walking around with every day and not aware of that, and then definitely reduce the number of emergency room visits as well.
 If we're able to make these smart healthcare decisions and lower those risk profiles, that's where we really capture savings. So it's improved healthier population, fewer lost work days, just overall higher productivity of your individuals in the community. If you wouldn't mind, just look to the next slide.
 Perfect. I definitely wanted to include a picture of our wonderful, amazing health center team. Carly is our MA who's out on leave right now, is not pictured, but we've got Dr. Dave Folger, Anthony Sikora, Amy Poole, and Marisol Cardenas. And to the next slide.
 All right, so just to give you a brief overview of some of the data we're going to review here quickly for year seven. So one thing to highlight for sure is our utilization at 84% for average monthly employee engagement. So we've got 84% of your employees regularly engaging with the health center. That's a 7% increase from the previous year, so that's great news that even during this pandemic state, we've been able to interact with additional individuals. All right.
 In addition, patient satisfaction is very high. We've got 95.6% of individuals that are satisfied or very satisfied with the health center services. We're also going to take a look and dive a little deeper into your claims data just to give you an idea of what that looks like as well. So looking at users, the health center versus clients.
 people that do not utilize the health service health center, we've got 32% savings for those people that do interact with us. 32% above and beyond what the folks that do not interact with us are costing on a yearly claims basis. We did see the visit volume for the health center increased 24% over the past year, which again is really great to see during a pandemic state where a lot of folks have deferred health care.
 And then we really try to interact with your high-risk individuals. We've got 90% of those high-risk employees engaged with our services. And the next slide, please.
 Current state services to give you an idea of what's happening in the health center. Currently we are still open for business. We've got in center lab, medical coaching, occupational health services. We're doing a lot of work with COVID as far as triage, medical management. We're doing rapid antigen testing as well as PCR testing at the health center as well.
 We were able to provide co-vaccines and boosters as well as we continue our outreach because we really want to just continue to stay connected to people even during this time where so many are deferring care. Next slide please.
 And then just a little bit more about our response specific to the pandemic. We are still providing telephonic and virtual appointments as well, just in case there's any individuals that either don't feel safe to come for in-person care or if we're managing COVID symptoms, obviously we would like them to not come into the health center until we're doing the testing because we want to keep as many people safe as possible. So to date, we have completed 209 COVID tests through the health center.
 And then actually, the city of Rockford Wellness Center was Marathon Health's first location to administer COVID vaccines. So definitely an accomplishment to share for from our perspective for sure. To date we've given 860 COVID vaccines. That's the total number. It's not the total number of individuals that are fully vaccinated, but the total number of vaccines that have been given through the health center.
 We're also actively administering additional COVID vaccines right now. We've got booster doses coming in, and then, of course, anyone that hasn't gotten their first or second doses, they can come to the health center and get the Moderna vaccine from us.
 And then something we're exploring, there are new treatments coming out every day and obviously want to be able to be the first stop for individuals that may be experiencing COVID. Something that we're trying to explore with our clinical leadership is bringing monoclonal antibody therapy on site just so it's at ease for the employees that need it. More to come on that piece as we just started to really look into that. Thank you.
 Thank you. So this slide we're looking specific at our appointments by visit category year over year. As you can see here in year seven we had a pretty strong volume in Q4 of last year as well as the first quarter of this year. Really seeing our visits volume up 24% over the previous year. Did want to
 call out obviously knowing that that second quarter of 2020 when the pandemic first came to light, we obviously had a relatively low volume. So comparing our visit volume from year seven to year five, which is more of a normal type year, our visit volume is actually up by 22% over year five. So great to see that there's continued growth even during these strange times.
 And then just to give you an idea, we've got 40% of people had more than one visit with us throughout the year, and the average visits per patient in year seven were 2.5 visits. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Up next is our health center utilization by relations. So we're really working hard to engage with as many people as possible so that we can make a difference in their health and wellness. So as you can see, that top line, the brightest orange, is your employee engagement. And as I noted on the previous slide, it's at 84%, so very high engagement.
 employee engagement. And just to give you an idea for Marathon Health, our benchmark for other public administrations, employees average around 57% engagement. So seeing that your engagement is so high is really, really great and something we're going to continue to work on in the new year.
 Staff engagement is a little lower at 29%. That's something that we're really going to focus on going into the new year. And independent engagement is at 23%. And if you're interested at all in utilization specific to buy bargaining unit, down there in the right-hand corner, you'll see AFSCME versus the fire union versus the police union and what engagement we have with those groups as well. Into the next slide. Okay.
 Just to give you an idea of how we're trying to maintain and increase engagement, we had several events over the course of the last year, over 30 if you count them all up. Did a lot of lunch and learns just with the current state of the pandemic. We can't get out and about as much and do as many in person events as we had previously, but have really embraced the webinar platforms and have been able to do some events
 Like that through the health center this year, 1 of our most popular was definitely dispelling COVID myths. Relation to the vaccines, we were trying to just get as many people vaccinated as we could. So we had our nurse practitioner Anthony. Put together a webinar to talk specifically about that to try and increase engagement there.
 And then the next slide is an overview of all the events we had throughout the year. Just try to have at least one or two events depending on the month. Path to Wellness in September and October time frame drives a ton of business for us, so we are really fortunate to have that incentive plan available to the Rockford employees.
 And then we also try to do some challenges throughout the year. And I'm working with the City of Rockford Wellness Committee right now to develop our plans for 2022 and what engagement opportunities we want to focus on there.
 And the next slide. I mentioned identification of risk is first and foremost for us. We're really trying to engage with those high-risk individuals so that we can hopefully alter their risk profile and bring them to a healthier lifestyle. So just to give you an idea of what percentage of individuals we have been able to get at least some part of screening.
 screening data on whether it be just a blood pressure or maybe a lab draw. We've got 90 percent of your employee population that have at least one screening value since your health center went live.
 Of those 90% that we've screened, we consider 534 of those to be either high risk, have at least one high risk outcome, or have a chronic condition, whether that be diabetes, asthma, something along those lines. So those are the people that we're really trying to focus on and make a difference in their lives. Okay.
 And then if you take a look at spouses here, we've got 43% of those individuals where we've got some screening data. Where you see the 54% in mind, that means that we're just pulling data from medical claims. It's not a person that we've actually seen within the wellness center. So of those spouses, we've got about 205 that are considered either high risk or have a chronic condition. And again, let that be a big focus for us.
 Next slide. Thank you so much. Here we're looking at risk mitigation, really trying to bring those people out of those higher risk categories. So these are different things that we try to really hone in on, such as blood pressure, glucose for diabetes, cholesterol, things of that nature. We do set a target for Marathon Health and health centers that have been open three years or more, because at that point we consider health center well established.
 So we are meeting all targets associated with these specific biometric risk factors aside from body mass index. We have some work to do there for sure, and we'll use that to guide our programming for engagement into the new year. Next slide, please.
 I won't read these to you word for word, but wanted to share just some of the patient satisfaction that we saw throughout the health center last year. 95.6 percent total. Net promoter score of 85.56. Really tons of amazing comments about the health center teams there. Definitely something that we heard over and over again is just
 that the provider really listened and that they had the time to really focus on the problems of why the individual was there. So it's a great model of care that people can pretty much make same-day appointments and they can also be really heard and seen. It's not, you know, quick trying to get people through the door as fast as possible. It's actually learning and listening to individuals. So...
 Next slide. Now we're looking at your overall claims trends. So we take a look at this to see are we making an impact? And obviously, Marathon Health does not take credit for this on their own. We understand that we're just a piece of the puzzle for the health and wellness that you provide your population. But taking a look at your claims data, so that purple line that you see there that's headed up, that's based on a 6.5% increase in claims.
 Expected inflationary trend. So over the course of the last 7 years, we would have expected your claims to raise by about 6 and a half percent just based upon the cost of health care rising. Looking at this data, the orange line is pretty swiggly is actually your, your actual claims trend.
 And so if you take a look over on the table here for year seven, it's an annual savings of almost $6.5 million or a 6.99 to 1 return on investment for the health center services. And again, we don't take credit for this. We know that there are tons of things that you have in place for the health and welfare of your population. We're just a piece of that puzzle. But we did anticipate your claims trending up by 6.5%, and you're well below that, actually, which is really great news.
 And the next slide, thank you so much. Here we're looking specifically at our engaged versus non-engaged, or from the previous slide earlier in the deck it said users versus non-users. So we're looking at individuals that had a claim within the last year and the cost of those claims. So on the left-hand side, the non-engaged bucket, you'll see pretty significantly higher claim spend for those individuals that do not interact with the Wellness Center staff.
 So $9,360 per member per year by place of service. Over here on the right-hand side, I guess towards the middle of the slide, is the claim spend for an engaged individual. And as you can see, it's quite a bit less at $6,347. Over on the side here, the percent change is noted. So just taking a look at users versus non-users, we actually saw 32% or $3,000 change.
 difference in employees that engage with us at the health center versus those that do not. So definitely making some positive movement there. Still seeing that the office visit is a little bit more expensive than what you're anticipating in the non-engaged population, but just to keep in mind that we're not there to replace anyone's primary care provider. We're really there to be an adjunct and to make sure people are getting the care that they need. So not too surprised to see that trend here.
 And next slide. This is just looking specific to chronic conditions. So on the previous slide, we were looking at place of service. This is looking at chronic conditions across all of your population. So where you see the bright orange bar, those are gonna be the spin for those specific conditions for individuals that do not interact or engage with us. And then the lighter orange,
 are the individuals that do engage with us. So across all chronic conditions, you can see pretty significantly across the board that individuals that are engaged with us are spending a lot less on these chronic conditions than those that are not. So 42% savings or $5,630 less for those that are engaged with us. All right, and then go ahead and flip one more slide for me.
 Just to give you an idea of what we're working on coming into year eight for City of Rockford and Marathon Health Partnership, we really want to focus on increasing and maintaining engagement. We've got extremely high engagement with your employee population. We want to keep that strong, and we also want to find ways to make sure we're connecting with your new people that come to the organization as well.
 So definitely going to continue our partnership with the Wellness Committee into 2022 and then focus on those top risk factors as cost drivers and really make sure that we're making an impact there. Something that's extremely important for us to focus on going into the new year as well is our social determinants of health. So that's really looking past a person's physical health and trying to find ways to impact other parts of their health too, including their social and economic needs. Maybe we find out that.
 literacy is an issue with a certain individual or maybe transportation, getting to and from appointments can be difficult. Those are the types of things we address when we talk about social determinants of health. We're going to really start to document against those so that we can report on them and find areas of need within the Rockford population that we can address and make an impact. We're going to continue to support COVID management, still continuing to give booster vaccines, explore that addition of the monoclonal antibody therapy treatment in the health center as well.
 Explore opportunities for supplemental services. We did find throughout the presentation, the larger presentation, that musculoskeletal spend is a relatively large piece of the puzzle for the city of Rockford. So one way that we can make an impact in those claims is really to get physical therapy on site and be able to really interact with a physical therapist to treat some of these back pains and injuries as well.
 And finally, just knowing that our spouse engagement is not nearly as high as our employee engagement, we really want to find a way to connect with those individuals, so whether it's adding some sort of incentive for them to use the health center or really just target our communications. We actually spoke with Alderman Beach earlier today, and he had some really great ideas about how we could really try to focus in on that population. So we're going to take that as an action item to really focus on our spouse engagement into the new year.
 I know I just spoke very, very fast and went through a lot of information, but I'm definitely hoping for any questions from the group. Thank you for the presentation. Is there questions from Council Members Alderwoman Tarina?
 thank you mayor this is alderman uh tarina thank you for your presentation i just had a quick question on slide six i believe it was pandemic response i wanted to know if there was any exploration on employees having at-home covet tests or like the take-home covet tests they're starting to become more popular in some other states i'm just curious if that's something that we've are thinking about bringing here
 It's not something that we've talked about today, but it's something we could certainly explore. I mean, there are definitely options for us to purchase at-home testing kits and things of that nature, so I think that there's certainly an opportunity to explore that further with Charisse and Kim. So I will take that as an action item as well. Thank you very much. Other questions?
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple observations. So you're basically having 900-plus visits a year or so? Yeah.
 In your clinic? No, about 3,600, 3,700, I think. How much? I believe the number that was up there was a 24% increase, and they put in parentheses 900 plus. I was doing the math the same thing. I think it's more like 3,600, 3,700 visits. Oh, 3,700 visits. Yeah. Okay. Yes, that's correct. Also, the increase of 900 was the increase. That's the way I took it. Correct. I just said yes. So it's 3,600 or so visits a year? Yes.
 Yeah, right there. That is correct. Okay. Now, the only other observation I had, and it's a statistical thing, you basically demonstrated cost savings between non-engaged patients and engaged patients. Could the reason be, and I saw the acuity, could it be the reason that our non-engaged patients are,
 are costing more is because they have multiple medical problems that have to be navigated by a more robust system that could address their multiple medical problems and their acuity, and that is why they are not engaged. They're basically seeing one of the other health systems. Is that fair to say?
 Not necessarily. We actually utilize a tool called Johns Hopkins ACG Risk Score, and that's a proprietary tool built by Johns Hopkins that really takes a look at the population. And they're looking to see across the population, are there more comorbidities in a certain group? Are there...
 Higher acuity, as you mentioned, and really we normalized that within our data to assure, like, if we risk adjusted based upon how much risk is in each one of those populations, is there a significant difference? And these populations, the non-engaged and the engaged, are very similar as far as risk score goes. So we're not seeing that there are a lot higher risk or a lot higher acuity in the non-engaged group. Okay.
 But did you say you were – some of it is hard to hear. Did you say you used a Johns Hopkins study? It's a tool, a Johns Hopkins ACG risk score, and it really looks to adjust the risk across all populations because we want to make sure that we're not, like you said, maybe seeing someone that is a little –
 less, have less comorbidities or something along those lines. I can actually send you our risk score that are associated with both of the populations, very similar, but I could send that to you after the call just to give you a better idea of what we're looking at here. So you're basically, just to make it clear, you're basically saying that if the non-engaged patients were engaged in the clinic, they wouldn't land up in the hospital in such high numbers? Yes.
 That is absolutely 100% our goal. That is marathon health, what we try to do, exactly. So that's your claim, yes. Correct, yes. Kind of bold. Well, as we mentioned before, we don't think we're the only reason that they are seeing some better claims data for people that we're seeing, but we're just a piece of the puzzle of the greater health and wellness that City of Rockford is bringing to their population. Okay, any comments?
 Alderman Frost? Is it possible if you could go to the slide that talked about the ROI and the expense, and it had a 6.5% rate in there? It's near the end. I'll just add Director Hughes is doing an amazing job moving through those slides. You just passed it. On this one, when we started the wellness center, this was a –
 One of the primary reasons we looked into was having our employees be healthier and then what the ROI would be on our expense of having a wellness center versus what we're saving on claims. And I believe you indicated that you can't take full credit for that, and I'm just trying to figure out what does the 6.5% represent? Yeah, so 6.5% comes from Price Waterhouse Cooper. They are...
 They come up every year with a number that they think they expect medical costs to rise. So this past year actually they anticipated medical costs increased by 7%. Going into 2022 they actually consider or expect healthcare spend to increase by 6.5%. So that's what we use.
 as our marker for determining whether or not we anticipated to see that. Frank Waterhouse Cooper said that on an annual basis, the increased health care spend increased by 6.5% this year, where we're not seeing that increase at the City of Rockford over the course of the last seven years. Okay. And I appreciate you saying you're not being able to take full credit for this, but the annual savings since we've had the wellness centers that you're indicating is approximately...
 $29 million as far as our costs versus what we've paid out in claims. Is that correct? That's correct. All right. Thank you very much. Additional questions. Okay. Well, first, thank you so much for the presentation. We appreciate the time. And all the aldermen will get the, if you haven't already, will receive that information through email. Thank you. Thank you all so much for the partnership. We really appreciate the time. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Okay, next up we have petitions and communications. We'll go to planning and development. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Item A, under planning and development committee, item number one, memorandum from Laura Marr, Director of Communication and Strategic Initiatives, regarding approval of the City of Bradford Guiding Principles. Item number two.
 This is a memorandum from Mayor Thomas McNamara regarding the proposed appointment of Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, as the City of Rockford Land Bank Board Trustee. The proposed appointment is set forth per Section 5.01 of the Intergovernmental Agreement between City of Rockford and Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority for a period of three years until a replacement is appointed.
 Item number three, memorandum from Deb Dorsey, housing and program manager regarding the 2022 annual action plan and an amendment to the 2021 annual action plan. And item number four is a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, housing and program manager regarding the subordination for financing association with Anchor Housing, LP, and loan modifications for Anchor Housing,
 And these items are referred to Planning and Development Committee. All these items, actually, are referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, under Code and Regulation Committee, our Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on December 21st, 2021, and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 10th, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 2, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on December 21st, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting.
 meeting on January 10th, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 3, the memorandum from Rob Willamy, Brownfields Redevelopment Specialist regarding the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, recognized citywide groundwater use ordinance, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Item 4, a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager for permits and special events regarding an upcoming special event for the Walk of Life, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 item 5 a memorandum from megan mcneil assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 747 wavelength avenue referred to code and regulation committee a memorandum from alderman bonnie regarding amendments to the chapter 113 historic preservation of the city of rockford ordinance to the historic preservation commission referred to code and regulation committee
 And finally, a memorandum from Alderman Rose regarding the Board of Directors of Mercy Health System Corporation. These are two documents that refer to their 10-year commitment to Rockford's West Side for information purposes only. They must be very thin documents. Thank you. Yes. Next, we have Alderwoman McNeely. Did you have a question? Number five. Thank you.
 The annexation of 747 Waveland Avenue. If staff could tell me what that is and why did they ask for annexation. Mr. Cagnoni? Would you repeat the address? She's talking about the item that's just referred in. Oh, the referral item. Sorry, I wanted to make sure that I...
 Sorry. This is a referral, so we'll have a full staff report next week, but I believe this is the property that our team identified that the adjacent property had not been annexed and was part of a larger parcel of property owned by the Park District. And reportedly ready next week.
 Monday? I'm sorry. Not next week, Monday. Our next committee meeting is January 10th, and so our staff will put together all the information and provide it and present these items, understanding that these are all referrals. Thank you. Next, Alderman Frost and Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the renewal of an intergovernmental agreement for electronic citation program between the City of Rockford and Winnebago County Circuit Court. I'm sorry, Circuit Clerk. This will refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Ann Quinet-Parham, Executive Director of the Health and Human Services Department regarding memorandum of understandings with UIC College of Medicine, Office of Health Literacy,
 C-U-R-A Strategies, Rockford Regional Health Council, et al. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee as well. Number three is a memorandum from Ann Quinn at Parham again regarding memorandum of understandings with ASME-C for recruitment, retention, and perfect attendance incentive. This will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you.
 Next up is public speakers. Just a reminder to our public speakers, there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of the chamber, and you will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring. That is your alarm to close your comments, and you have three minutes to present to city council. Our first public speaker this evening is Kenneth Dickens. Oh, I'm sorry. Should be. Can you try it again, Kenneth?
 good evening thank you good evening mayor and every everyone in their respective places this evening i do appreciate the correspondence and the information about the week in regards to the town hall meeting that is uh um coming up soon um i know i believe this is the last council meeting of the year if i stand corrected and uh i just wanted to leave everyone with the information
 in regards to how I'm looking at this year for us as a city. Those of you that have been here and have seen me come repeatedly, I'm very passionate about seeing Rockford thrive as a city collectively, and that's what brings me back week after week. That is my sole motivation.
 I wanted to leave this year with this statement because I want to see this statistic change. Rockford is currently the eighth worst city in America for black people to live. These are based on statistical facts. These are not opinions. This is not hearsay. It's not something that I created or fabricated. You can look this up. Black Americans moving to a new city. These are some of the worst places to settle. I'm not belittling Rockford. What I'm saying is,
 when you critique anyone or any place there's room for improvement once there are changes that are made and I want to see the city I want to see the statistic for Rockford change for the better I just want to read a small excerpt from this
 the civil rights act of 1964 and the fair housing act of 1968 banned discrimination lending zoning and renting practices addressing but not undoing segregation and racial disparities that remain unchanged in many cities and neighborhoods here are some of the segregated cities in america so also basing this on segregation
 Segregation often limits access to education and employment, opportunities for residents of minority communities, and contributes to racial disparities in urban areas.
 And I just find this fascinating. To determine the 15 worst cities for black Americans, 24-7 Wall Street ranked the nation's metropolitan areas based on racial disparities to income, education, health, incarceration, and white-black achievement gaps and other socioeconomic outcomes using data from the U.S. Census Bureau and the Centers for Disease Control. All right.
 now on this list rockford ranks number eight and i'll just read the statistical information so if anyone ever wants to know what is my motivation it's not money for me per se i want to see this change for rockford black population is 36 630. black median income is 27 862. thank you mr dickens and i'll leave that this year 2021 with this note and it's my hope that it changes next year for us thank you
 Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. Some words from Isaiah the prophet. Nevertheless, there will be no gloom for her that was in anguish. People that walked in darkness have seen a great light. They that dwell in the land of the shadow of the death, upon them has this great light shown. The oppressor has multiplied the nation, but not multiplied joy. The oppressor.
 his yoke is being broken by this great light. The rod of the oppressor is broken. For every battle of the war is with confusion, noise, and garbage, rolled in blood. Justice and righteousness is the strength of a nation. But the oppressor practices pride, greed, racism, and deceit. This is the...
 Advent season and the word Advent means the coming. Yes, Rockford, Winnebago County, there is a coming. There is a coming, a seismic coming, because according to Isaiah again, for unto us a child is born and unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his head and the name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace.
 This great light will bring some of the change. And when we can griddle certain statistics, just somewhat similar to the brother spoke, the Federal Reserve said the wealth, the average wealth of white citizens in the United States is eight times that of blacks. Eight times that. Black people own 44% of the housing, 56% of the blacks don't own homes. It is an undeniable fact that all of this dread and bad statistics
 has its roots in 246 years of slavery. I said before, the government's failure to uphold promises made, this coupled with 77 years of Jim Crow, that subjugated and segregated blacks from the community,
 mainstream of education and employment, and 35 years of something the brother mentioned, federal housing possibly, that was called Red Landing. Yes, Rockford, a change is coming with this great light.
 I am pretty proud to say that I'm waiting to see if a substance response to our request to the United States Department of Commerce for $40 million to create 400 jobs for the West Side of Rockford. We've upped the ante to $56 million. We will not relent. We're going to press forward with this. We're going to see if there's going to be substance to what the brothers said to many of us in the Ministers for Manufacturing out of Chicago, to which I'm a proud part.
 Let's see if there will be substance, not symbolism. I like these words from the Black National Anthem. If there be voices sing, to earth and heaven ring, ring with the harmony of liberty, let our rejoicing rise as high as the listening skies. Let it resound as loud as the rolling sea.
 Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. I'm glad to see my mentor here, former Alderman Victory Bell. And I want to say...
 Merry Christmas, Happy New Year to everyone here. Upon this rock I will build my house, and the gates of hell will not prevail. I ask this question while we're talking about Christmas. Jesus Christ was born in the manger in the barn. Three wise men came to the barn. Herod wanted to kill every firstborn because he was afraid that Jesus was coming to take his place. What do...
 Santa Claus coming down the chimney got to do with Jesus Christ fleeing to save his life. We want to touch on the past, the present, and the future. A true preaching commitment are the ones with the boots on the ground, have a very close relationship with the peoples in the community. You do not see them on TV.
 in the round Election Day and making false promises like some of our politicians do. Instead, you see them 365 days out the year. We have built a bonus block of over 150 families and friends, and the number is growing of half and half not. Next year is Election Year. We are sick and tired of being sick and tired of our votes
 The system get money off our misery and yet we only get kibbles and bits. Renewal Turning Point has built a very strong love and trust relationship in the community. Next year we're working on opening up a Renewal Turning Point business.
 program university show with a thirty point plan i want to thank again my mentor vickery bell for utilizing ninety percent of my thirty point plan at the public aid building ryan coole looking at south avon implementing my thirty point plan we should have a twenty four hour daycare center in every alderman ward
 I always believed that we had to stop depending on someone else to do something for us. This year I was able to show the city just how much they care about the half-knife. Anytime we talk about our concerns and needs, it fell on deaf ears. When I was told by Senator Fischer that I was a pain in the neck, nevertheless he did the job done. Then later on,
 to be told that they made a mistake twice about the regrowth application. That clearly to me what we call blackball. We are not upset, we are not pissed, we are not surprised. The system or systematic racism is alive and well.
 we cannot, since they cannot control us, you really do not care about what our concerns are. This year, we went to $1,000 a month in two months, $50,000 in seven months, and this was out of grant from the city or 501c3 that we've had over the past year. I also want to thank our sponsors. I'm not going to bring up the sponsors that I brought up last week, but I want to bring up Morris, Illinois, invited us.
 go there with a u-haul for the choice the rotary car we came back and gave choice to book watching center two different churches and the people in our community thank you for letting me speak thank you uh our next public speaker this evening is uh mr larry robertson with regard to the issue of rockford memorial while the mayor's words stop short
 of going for the throat of Begg, the mayor did own his position, not only for the sore wound inflicted on one quadrant of this city, but the mayor also addressed the empathetic pain felt by many in the other three quadrants. So while the Westgate Way Coalition group forms a more powerful, voice-filled, coordinated response to this atrocity,
 As a private citizen, I'm calling on the Bay Board responsible for agreeing to putting so many people at risk and acting in such a profit-driven manner to review your mission, goals, strategies, and objective cornerstones to see if they're still aligning. And if they are, then stop gaslighting the community today.
 Stand up on two legs, reveal and admit your corporate strategic objectives for Rockford Memorial from day one instead of hiding behind your slight of hand misdirection responses. And any of you that saw John Dorsey's video example of erasity when he purposed it with, then you know what was coming out of his mouth right after that.
 So I'm challenging you, Mr. Bay, to stand up and actually own who and what you are, who you owe these actions to, and own who you are in your heart. The public will finally get to know what they're dealing with, and you will feel much better getting it off your chest. Now, it's a simple challenge, Mr. Bay. Just own who you really are. Larry Robertson, CEO, Land Aviator Transformations, Inc. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Acts, the first chapter, the eighth verse, it says you shall receive power when the Holy Ghost come upon you. What I want to speak about tonight, blacks must unite and do for self.
 This COVID-19 pandemic and the unprecedented push for vaccination, especially in the black community, have exposed the abysmal lack of medical service available to the majority of the black population from the very beginning of this COVID-19 pandemic.
 We began to see the results of black people being left out of American health care system. Physician Dr. had pointed out in 2019, only 11% of black Americans had health insurance. This forces us to be dependent on the emergency room instead of family doctors for primary care. When we go to the emergency room, we are most likely to be misdiagnosed, as has happened in many major cities, because the symptoms
 For black people are different from those of white people. From the start of the pandemic, many of our people who went to the emergency room complaining of serious illness received no help and were sent home only to return in much worse shape. Honest, sure.
 They were neglected at best and at worst, put on ventilators to die from suffocation. Seeing the reports of increasing deaths, Dr. Ball sent a proposal to President Joe Biden for the establishment of a national black healthcare consult, whose mission would be to establish equity in the application of healthcare in the United States for black Americans, thereby enhancing good health and extending the length of life by 20 years.
 reducing illness and disability. Dr. Barr wrote to Biden on behalf of black healthcare professionals, an illusion of prosperity and recovery has been painted with faith in
 in vaccines against COVID-19, but little mention of action needed to rectify the problems COVID-19 uncovered in the dispensing of health care to black Americans in the United States. Therefore, we, the undersigned, request to work with your administration on plans to ensure that all Americans will have prompt access to equitable health care during the COVID-19 scourge, while removing obstacles that have been system
 systematically put in place during years of institutional racism. As of this writing, Dr. Biden's administration has ignored the call for a national black health care consultant. So we will have to take back responsibility for our own health. I say take back responsibility because at one time, we did take care of our own health needs. Did you know, March 29, 1923, we had 200 black hospitals.
 But by April 9th, 1944, the number of hospitals had decreased to 124. And now we have only two in 2021 for the whole country. In 1910, blacks had seven medical schools that trained black doctors, dentists, pharmacists, and registered nurses. So it's time to pull our resources and do for self. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I just want you to know, Prophet, I'm just happy that you're back.
 Next up, we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll go to planning and development committee, Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Mayor.
 Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the proposed funding long-term loan for the capitalization of a community development financial institution, CDFI, in partnership with Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation, NICDC, and the Rockford Local Development Corporation, RLDC, and local financial institutions.
 Item number two committee recommends approval of the redevelopment agreement with Harrison kishwaukee LLC for 707 Harrison Avenue and then item number three the committee recommends approval of the sub recipient Agreement with Rockford area habitat for humanity for a critical residential repair program The legal director shall prepare the appropriate appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So council we have three items before us Is there any discussion on those three items?
 Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you, Mayor. I would make a motion to lay over one and three. There's a motion on the floor to lay over items one and three. We have a second. Both items have been laid over. Now we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frente. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent, that item passes. Next up we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, your honor. Item one, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 49XX Marion Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item two, committee recommends approval of the final plat number two of 24 slash seven subdivision.
 Item three, the committee recommends approval of the tentative plat of Quick Trip, store number 7206, subdivision.
 Item 4, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Article 3, Video Gaming Terminals, Section 142-144 and Section 147. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And then item 5, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance establishing a civilian oversight board. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. There's five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items?
 alderman tunberg thank you mayor uh i would like to make a motion to lay over item number five we have a motion and a second uh to lay over item five so that's been laid over now there's four items before you alderman mcneely thank you mr mayor item number three uh the tentative plat a quick trip store if staff could um
 Explain what this is, please. Director Franzen. Absolutely. Thank you, Alderwoman. This is a proposed development on the northeast corner of East 8th Street and Lyford, just east of the interstate for a proposed gas station. I'm sorry, what was the last part? A proposed gas station. Thank you. Any other questions? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logeman. Aye.
 Toomer frost I Tarina I fronty all right Wilkins I Hoffman Rose I beat fine you know nice meeks I make me Lee no I'm for I am remaining Bonnie I items 1 through 3 14 eyes item number 413 eyes 1 no excellent they pass next we'll go to finance and personnel alderman frost thank you
 Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $10,057,770.96 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on December 6, 2021. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Park District for a collaborative summer youth program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those two mayors before you. Excellent. There's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? No.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number two, I would make a motion to lay this over. Is there a second? We've had Alderman Quinones. There's a second. It's laid over. Thank you. Only one item before you. It's one way to get through this agenda quickly tonight. One item before you. Any discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 Terina? Aye. Montee? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonney? Aye. Forty-Ninth. Excellent. Next up, we will go to planning and development under unfinished business. Committee reports laid over. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under planning and development item number one, the committee recommends approval of the revised Rockford Historic Preservation Plan, and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. There's one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor.
 I would move that we refer the plan back to the Historic Preservation Commission for consideration in conjunction with the proposed ordinance change as well as to allow for further public comment and input. So there's a motion to move that item back to committee. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Other one on Meeks? Meeks.
 I would like to know what the difference is between what we are approving here for the update and what the ordinance change is. Can either Mark explain what the change is or a staff member help me understand what the difference is and why we're not approving today? We can explain the difference. Part of it, Alderman Bonney will have to answer in part. Director Franzen will have to. So, Director Franzen, just the difference between the amendment and the plan. Okay.
 So the amendment to the plan is not amending the ordinance as such and so there's some updates in the plan, you know, and Alderman Bonney has requested, you know, that the actual ordinance change to some degree and so from staff opinion there would be no
 no difference in terms of approving the plan today and then considering alderman Bonnie's Change the ordinance in in the additional future. However, we have no objection to Considering them at the same time as well. So then alderman Bonnie, can you help me understand? What the difference is between what we're voting for here for the plan? versus your ordinance change
 Alderman Bonham? Sure. So the, thank you, Mayor. So the proposed ordinance change would, without getting to debating something that's not really on the floor, but would be, it is related to the plan in that there are,
 that we currently have an ordinance that requires a supermajority vote in in certain instances landmarking instances that is unique in the state of Illinois there are 83 communities with preservation ordinances and ours is the only one that requires that it is obviously the ordinance change the ordinance is part of the plan so if the ordinance changes
 The plan would have to be changed to correspond with that, but more importantly, in discussing the two, you know, you've got a list of proposed sites and structures in the plan, and five of those proposed landmarks are in the hands of owned by organizations unlikely to support a landmark application.
 So I don't, I think if we're going to talk about whether we want to loosen that restriction that we've placed on ourselves, then we should talk about it in the context of the landmarks that the plan says that we intend to pursue. But in addition to that, there have been, you know, there seems to have been a lack of action.
 um ability for people in the preservation advocates to have read digested the plan and at least one has offered a suggestion that i think is is worth the commission considering and and uh offering back to the council can can i ask how long has this plan been before the historic preservation commission director franson
 So the plan was created in 1985, so it hasn't been edited since then. The HPC, Historic Preservation Commission, has been talking about it for at least two years and probably has been working on it for about the last year. Okay, thank you. I don't have any more questions. Alderman Rose. Yes.
 Yeah, just out of information, I serve on the Historic Preservation Committee. One of the interesting things that I kind of think about is that, you know, and this is a little bit of a disagreement with Alderman Bonney, is I look at the plan as kind of what you would call like a constitution, right? You have a plan that kind of gives you the kind of structures that we,
 we as a city want to be in line with with the state and with the national landmarks
 And then you have what is your ordinances and your laws. And those ordinances are somewhat separate from that Constitution. They're related, but they're oftentimes not related. And so I'm hopeful that we can move forward with the plan tonight, because even though they are somewhat related, they really are different entities in how we approach this, the plan. And the plan has been
 you know open to open meetings for many months we've been talking about this for since the early spring I know that Scott Capovilla has worked on it even well many months before that so just kind of advocating that it move forward tonight
 Thank you. So we still have this one item before us. Before I get back to you, I'll go to Alderman Frost. Just to clarify, so Alderman Rose, you're indicating that the plan is more of the body as a whole, and any, I believe, item that was on the agenda earlier tonight as far as an amendment to a specific plan.
 Item like majority versus supermajority doesn't really affect the plan, but it's just an amendment to it to a process And kind of very similar I mean the ordinance is a totally separate idea and the other Interesting thing about the plan is that the plan can always be amended, right? So, I mean if there were some, you know discrepancies on how we wanted to move forward with the plan I kind of look at it as similar to the SIPP and
 We usually vote for, go forward with the SIP and make amendments as we go, as we see fit. So thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Bonney and then Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Mayor. I think Director Franzen already addressed this, but in that the staff is not, doesn't have enough position on whether they get considered together or not, but has...
 And while this may have been on agendas and in discussion for two years, was there ever any public notice or were preservation advocates who do not happen to sit on the Preservation Commission ever invited to or made aware of this formally, invited to offer public comment? Was there ever any public hearing? Director Franzen. So, thank you.
 No, this update of the plan did not require, we did not have a public hearing. However, we in the zoning department have consistent engagement with our historic preservation advocates, either project-based or as this process says. You know, the reason that this plan has been, you know, went through HPC was the request of, hey, we need to update this. It hasn't been updated since 1985.
 And so, you know, it's really been an engagement with the, you know, that community through that process. So in terms of, I don't have specific communication, but we are confident as a staff that we've engaged historic reservationists throughout the community through this process. I guess I would also ask Alderwoman Meeks and Alderman Rose if the plan hasn't been updated since 1985.
 What's the rush to not give this another vetting before the Preservation Commission? So we don't go back and forth with everyone. Appreciate the question. Other comments, and just address them to me. If you want to answer that question, you can. Just address your answer to me. You should be kicked out back there, though.
 Yeah, I'm sorry alderman dirty. Thank you. I just to reiterate something as this was working It's way out of committee to the floor is a comment that I had made and and this seems to be a opens an ample opportunity for this as you know, your honor you created a task force to look at impediments
 to rehabbing some of the and restoring these buildings. And one of the things that came out of that meeting, which I noted wasn't in the documents, and it came out from building owners as well as a couple of architects, is the fact that we use a right now we use up to date international building code as a basis for inspecting our buildings for safety, which is not it's not a bad idea.
 The problem is, what some of the architects faced and the building engineers faced, is some of those expectations were unreasonable. In other words, the level of safety that they were asking didn't make the building, quote-unquote, that much safer. So if we could rehab the buildings with the input of an architect and a structural engineer in such a way that our codes can be relaxed...
 While still maintaining safety, these buildings may be put up. My daughter drives a new car, right? And, I mean, I think her safety features can detect a missile launch from North Korea and will direct her to the nearest bomb shelter. I mean, the thing goes off all the time. I don't. I just drive a diesel pickup truck, and if I hit something, I hit something. But is one vehicle more safe than the other? Should, if I pull into the car repair shop,
 Do I now have to upgrade my vehicle to put all that stuff in in order to make it safer? The answer is no. So there's some practicalities that could come into play as we rehab these buildings to make it more efficient, more cost-effective, and more redevelopment-friendly. And as we got that input, we mentioned it, we talked about it,
 Never done anything with it. So I think this is a good time to put a small paragraph either an architect Somebody who's savvy and in words could can put that in there as a condition So the reader of our ordinance who wants to redo a historic building or vintage building? will say hey, wow, that's there's a this sounds like a city that I can work with maybe I can do this building and I don't have to
 put in an air exchanger that exchanges the air 500 000 times a minute and i could just continue the same high vac system so that's one of the reasons you know maybe we we send it back and we we have an opportunity to put that in that's that's my comment thank you your honor thank you director franzen did you want to address any comment there yeah absolutely thank you your honor and uh thank you alderman durkee for your participation and leadership on the existing building task force uh that we uh uh
 convened I believe in 2019 and yes that was one of the issues that we talked with design professionals and developers was about the challenges of redeveloping existing buildings to the modern code
 However, that issue extends beyond just historic properties. It is to old properties, whether they're historic or not. And so we are actually in the process right now of analyzing and updating our building codes. And so I think the more appropriate place would be to discuss that at the
 adoption of the new code cycle and our local amendments and as it relates to equivalencies and how we apply those to existing buildings to encourage redevelopment while still ensuring public safety.
 alderman durkee then i'll go to alderman thunberg i'll just remind everyone real quick that we are simply discussing the opportunity to send this back to you yeah i would only say redone there's nothing wrong with uh redundancy and and stating it as a matter of policy in different locations i don't think that's i don't think that's harmful thank you alderman thunberg all right uh thank you mayor um
 director franz and what you just mentioned and and said uh i would just like to make sure what you said does come into fruition because what i have as third ward alderman have taken calls in that the impossibility of
 sometimes going into these buildings with capital just does not make it prohibitive. It makes it cost prohibitive to do so in so many ways that I could even begin to mention. So yes, I can, I can, I can,
 Understand how this how that shouldn't be in this but it is of utmost importance that we address that if it's in the our codes ordinances Very important. So, thank you. All right, so the question before us We have a motion and a second to refer this back to committee Is there any further discussion on that item clerk? Will you please call the roll Durkee? Hi Logeman
 Tumberg? No. Frost? No. Tarina? Aye. Prenti? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? No. Rose? No. Beach? No. Quinones? No. Meeks? No. McNeely? Aye. Bonney? Aye. Six ayes, eight noes. All right, so we still have the one item before us. Is there any discussion on the item before us?
 alderman frost i just want to make sure that items like alderman bonnie's amendment and some of the items and issues that alderman durkee uh mentioned tonight uh that we'll have an opportunity um outside of the plan to consider those and to adopt or not adopt those based on absolutely how we feel not tonight but another time absolutely any other discussion
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Aye. 14 ayes. That was not the item I thought was going to have all the discussion tonight. Okay. Um...
 Holy shit. Alderman Rose, codes and regulation. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a crematory in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 215 North 6th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Okay, so we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 And I apologize. I thought we were on a roll there for a bit, too. I move to amend the committee report for 215 North 6th Street to revise condition of approval number 5. The new condition shall read...
 The existing freestanding pylon sign at Crosby Street and 6th Street shall be removed and or replaced with a landmark style sign within six months after the reconfiguration of and or the conversion of 6th Street to a two-way street. Thank you. We have a motion. Is there a second? All right. We have a second. We'll vote on the amendment first. Is there any discussion on that amendment?
 All those in favor of the amendment say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. So now we have one item before you, and it's been amended. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Carina. Frunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney.
 14 ayes. Okay, now we're really moving along. Officers' reports. Any aldermen have reports? Alderman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to recognize one of my colleagues on the council committee.
 alderman bonnie last week i was volunteering at an organization that i have volunteered with for about four years now and one of my clients she said she didn't have any food at her house and said you know what i know that there is a food drive going on today she said i know i really wanted to go but i didn't have enough gas to get there and i said you know what i know people let me see what i can do so
 I texted Alderman Bonnie. He happened to be the last person that texted me. The Lord must have sent him to me. I said, Mark, I need you to do me a really big favor. I know this is random, but can you come bring some food to where I'm at? He didn't hesitate. He brought the food. Not only did he bring one box of food, he brought enough food for four families. And it really touched the families there because people just weren't expecting to get food that night. And there was a lot of tears that happened because there was just people there that
 they didn't know where they were going to get their next meal so it was really a blessing to those people it was a blessing to me and i just wanted to thank you for that so god bless you mark excellent alderman rose thank you your honor um a few things um i just wanted to address the item i added to the uh list of petitions and communications uh the one on mercy health um
 you may receive or if you haven't got a copy already for next week but there are two documents as a part of that with a one is a press release from Mercy Health that goes into the idea of a one hospital two campuses which they agreed to under the plan that we gave that we set you know made with them on the
 on approving the new hospital but while also maintaining and keeping a second hospital on North Rockton the other one is a document a resolution from the Board of Directors of Mercy Health stating that they would commit to 50 million dollars over a course of 10 years in in reference to this second hospital on Rockton Avenue and I just I
 I want to say thank you to our mayor and our leadership at the city for continuously bringing about this issue. I know Westside residents have been impacted by not only their reduction in services for mental health services, but really their entire modus operandi of...
 basically getting rid of a hospital during a world pandemic where more services are needed. And so I just wanted to kind of talk about that as it impacts my ward and the West End and also people outside of the city. I mean, when you look at the communities of Winnebago and Pecatonica and Durand, their response times now are, you know, add on 15, 20 minutes to a hospital
 ambulance ride going across town of Rockford, I can imagine that that's going to impact the level of service that they offer to those communities as well. So that was my first item I wanted to address. I also wanted to just congratulate Gary Anderson and
 also the Rockford Symphony Orchestra and their Excelsior Awards, but also recognize the Northwest Neighbors Organization who was given a nomination. They're a great organization that is doing the work in Northwest Rockford. I know they're working closely with other aldermen and I think it's a fantastic idea of what a community group can do in coming together and trying to put forth pro-business ideas and
 in trying to impact the neighborhood as a whole from age zero to age 100. So I just wanna recognize their efforts. And then the last one is I did also wanna recognize the passing of really a champion for interfaith in the city of Rockford. His name is Kanwal Prashar. He passed away last week, was a 40-year veteran at Rock Valley College.
 uh was one of my professors in world religions and and got me into actually taking a passion for sociology and uh religious activities so uh we we lost a a great advocate in the interfaith world and i just wanted to recognize uh him and and in his efforts to bringing people together in the city of rockford absolutely thank you alderman beach oh thank you honor i did have
 the privilege to attend the uh christmas concert at the farnado theater uh this past saturday and um well it was traditional christmas music and a packed house it was wonderful to see almost every seat taken but there was another event taking place that night and that was the maestro's final concert stephen larson
 the final concert director of the Rockford Symphony Orchestra. And matter of fact, when he walked on the stage to begin the concert, there was a standing ovation for several minutes, let alone at the end. And I'm glad to see he's going to stay in Rockford. I'm glad to see the board of directors is going to make him ex-official member of the board. He's certainly a Rockford friend, a citizen, and someone that's really raised the level of that musical organization.
 to excellence and we should be proud of him. I would hope perhaps, your honor, we could put together a resolution of some kind, maybe get him down here in a couple of weeks or so and, and give that to him. So that's my comment this evening. Thank you. Thank you. Other comments, Alderwoman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just would like to wish everyone a very, very Merry Christmas and certainly a happy New Year. Thank you. Thanks. Alderman Bonner. Thank you, Mayor.
 So I want to thank Alderman Tarina, but clarify that I did not go grocery shopping for those turkeys. That I went through the drive-through giveaway that State Representative Maurice West was conducting. So I merely shuttled the turkeys.
 I also wanted to thank Peter Provenzano and Joseph James Partners for the opportunity to speak this morning at a news conference that they had announcing plans to attempt to restore the Times Theater, including applying for a state Main Street grant and
 They have launched a petition drive on change.org, so I would encourage you to sign that petition. And, you know, it's a great, could be a great addition to the downtown performing arts scene as well as,
 revitalization but you know I I felt feel strongly that all of the all of the efforts that we put into historic preservation benefit us citywide and actually as a region I also of course took the opportunity to mention alderman toonberg's
 sport jacket which i i had one like that when i was in second grade and i had my picture taken in it but i'm going to try to locate that and pass it around the horseshoe and also thank alderman mcneely she wished everyone a merry christmas but i got a video card from her in which i was given two lumps of coal so
 Oh my god alderman Toomberg Yes, thank you mayor and and thanks alderman Bonnie for letting me borrow your sport jacket But I'd also like to say it was good to see my friend. Dr. Dave Johnson Two weeks ago or so and he too is an intimidate isn't intimidated to wear a red sport jacket So just wanted to say hello and give a shout out to dr. Johnson any other reports? Oh
 Alderman Frost. Thank you. I also would like to join with Alderman McNeely to wish everyone a Merry Christmas, not just on the Aldermanic team here, but all of our city staff, including the ones that are here and the ones that aren't with us tonight. They've definitely incurred a very unusual set of circumstances returning to City Hall, and hopefully they get some time off and enjoy their holidays with their friends and families. And also, if any, Alderman, in the next, I don't know,
 couple hours or days see Mr. Cagnone asking for something. I bet you he can help you out. Thank you Thank you very much, I just wanted to take a moment to say thank you to Mayor McNamara
 And there were several other people and I would thank them as well. But for coming to the ward meeting on the 9th, I think that we didn't have the greatest attendance, even though we had a lot of people there from the ward. I think that we just received a lot of great information and I really do appreciate that. I also want to thank the folks from Public Works, Kyle Saunders.
 as well as Tim Hinkins.
 I think that people, you ease some minds about some things that were taking place in the ward. So, I really do appreciate you coming. You always come and save the day. People don't know about a couple of our experiences where you kind of swoop down out of nowhere and save the day. And I think that this was another opportunity because some people were upset who were there.
 I also want to thank Barb Chidley, our neighborhood specialist, and our city engineer, Tim Hinkins. I hope I'm saying that right. For coming. I appreciate that. And then I just wanted to also say to everyone, Merry Christmas, Happy New Year, be safe, and let's do it right again next year. Thank you. Any other reports?
 all right next we'll go to uh motions and resolutions we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman first thank you number one the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the intersection bike detection equipment to its plus a plain old texas the amount of two hundred eleven thousand five hundred sixty five dollars installation is planned for the spring summer of 2022 and shall include seven intersections the funding source is sales tax
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for bituminous patching 2021 with the Stenstrom excavation of Rockford.
 In an estimated annual amount of $650,000, the contract duration is through November 30, 2022, with three possible one-year extensions. Annual price adjustment for CPI will be considered a contract renewal only. The funding source is the Water Fund Operating Budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for PCC patching to TCI Concrete of Rockford for an estimated annual amount of $250,000. The contract duration is through December 31, 2022, with three possible one-year extensions.
 The annual price adjustment for CPI will be considered a contract renewal only. The funding source is also the Water Fund Operating Budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of the non-competitive contract for the Southeast Rockford Superfund site groundwater monitoring to Nationwide Environmental Services of Golden, Colorado in the amount of $234,480. The contract duration is four years. The funding source is the Water Fund Operating Budget.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of contract extension for the rental of traffic control devices to Traffic Services of Bartlett for an estimated annual value of $200,000. The original contract duration was February 2021 through December 31, 2021 with four possible one-year extension options. The approval is for the first one-year extension. The funding sources various departmental operating budgets.
 Number six the committee recommends approval of the award of the joint purchasing contract for City Hall janitorial services to Bridgeway of Loves Park and
 In the amount of $118,730.64 for year one, year two is $128,620.80. Year three is $138,511.68. The contract duration is date of award through June 30, 2022, with two possible one-year extension options. The funding source is the property fund operating budget.
 Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the award of the non-competitive contract for traffic signal equipment to MoboTrek's mobility and traffic experts of Davenport, Iowa, for an estimated annual value of $300,000. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the Traffic Division Operating Budget.
 Number eight the committee recommends approval of the award of contract extension for street sweeping services to Elgin sweeping services of Chicago for a total estimated annual value of 571 thousand five hundred and fifty two dollars based on unit pricing the contract duration was three years with two additional one-year extensions This is for the approval of the first one-year extension. The funding source is the street division operating budget. I
 Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the contract for medical stop-loss 2022 to nationwide insurance for contract rates of $25.47 per employee per month for a single enrollment and $61.60 for family enrollment. The total estimated annual premium is $721,860 based on the current number of health insurance participants. The contract duration is one year, and the funding source is the health insurance fund.
 Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the contract for workers' compensation excess coverage to Safety National Casualty Corporation of St. Louis, Missouri.
 For rates based on annual payroll of $87,612,663 at $.2429 per 100 of payroll for an estimated annual premium of $212,811. The contract duration is an annual renewal. The funding source is the Workers' Compensation Fund.
 Number 11 is an approval of a resolution authorizing approval and execution of a settlement agreement in the American I'm sorry Amerisource Bergen Cardinal Health McKesson and Jansen slash Johnson and Johnson National opioid cases consistent with the national opioid settlement agreement dated July 21 2021 and the jointer agreement to the Illinois opioid allocation Agreement and your honor for that one. I would ask that we suspend rule 9. I
 excellent so we have uh 11 items i'm going to separate uh item 11 so we'll take the first 10 items first is there any discussion on items one through ten alderman canones yes uh item number six uh after one year will that go out to bids again uh i don't believe so but director hagerty or i'm sorry director saunders bridgeway it's not we have additional extensions
 It would suggest. Yeah. No, here it says year one, year two, and year three. So I would assume three years. Correct. That's correct. Any follow-up, Alderman Quinones? No, that's it. Okay. Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you, Mayor. Same item, number six. The contracts are going up by $10,000 per year, and I don't know if that's reasonable or not, that we shouldn't go out for bid. It's driven by the increase in minimum wage.
 The state minimum wage that has to be paid. We've seen those types of increases similarly across other contracts of this nature where you have staff making minimum wage. The federal minimum wage? No, the state. Yes, yes. Thank you. Any other questions on items 1 through 10? Clerk, will you please call the roll on items 1 through 10? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye.
 Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. I'm sorry. Pie. Bonnie. Items 1 through 10, 14 ayes. Excellent. So we have one item remaining. That's item 11. Is there any discussion on item 11? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Oh, thank you. Thank you.
 So we had a motion to suspend Rule 9 by Alderman Frost. Is there a second? Second. Second by Alderman Beach. Is there any discussion on just simply suspending Rule 9? All those in favor of suspending Rule 9 say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. All right, so now we'll bring back the one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item before us? Alderwoman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would like to thank staff, the legal department, for all of their hard work. I think this is something that we certainly need, and I'm proud of staff for moving forward with this. And I do hope that we can agree to use these funds to help individuals and their families that may have gone through this.
 Thank you. Thank you any other discussion on this item Claire could you please call the roll on item 11 jerky? Logamon timber frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman grows Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely. Hi, Bonnie 14 eyes
 Excellent. We'll move to new business. Should be fairly quick since most of them are laid over. Planning and development, Alderman Meeks. I believe we only have one item. Two. Or no. Two items, right? Two items. Two and four. Item number two, an ordinance approving the redevelopment agreement with Harrison, Kishwaukee, LLC for 707 Harrison Avenue. Okay.
 item number four an ordinance approving the revised Rockford historic preservation plan excellent there's two items before you is there any discussion on those two items seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll Durkee hi Logum in tumor frost Torino printy Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 14 eyes
 code and regulation committee alderman rose thank you your honor um item one an ordinance approving the annexation of 49xx marion avenue item two in ordinance approving the amendments to the city of rockford liquor code article three video gaming terminals section 142 dash 144 and section 147 item three in ordinances oh that one was laid over um
 Item four, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a crematory in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 215 North 6th Street. Thank you, so we have three items before us, item one, two, and four, and four has been amended. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Aye. Item 1, 14 ayes. Item number 2, 13 ayes, 1 no. And item number 4, 14 ayes. Excellent, is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a good night.