First, we'll have the clerk call us to order. Durkee. Here. Gasparini. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Irvins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Quinones. Here. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 present.
 Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Our first order of business is a public hearing, a public hearing on the annexations of 4801 Linden Road and 5055 Linden Road. And I'll turn this public hearing over to Alderman Chiarelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5-4-11-15.1-3 for the annexation agreements for the following properties, 4801 Linden Road and 5055 Linden Road. Is there any comments or questions from the council members? Any comments or questions from the public? Hearing none, we are adjourned on that.
 Thank you. I thought you did a wonderful job with that public hearing. We are going to move to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development. We'll go back to code and regulation and Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under new committee reports, B1 is the annexation of 4801 Linden Road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number two is the annexation of 5055 Linden Road. I place those two items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you. So we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Gasparini. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Chiarelli. Aye. 10 ayes, 1 no.
 Thank you. So that item moves forward. Next, we have officers' reports. I don't have much except one good news and one bad news. Good news is a tremendous congratulations to our very own Frank and Sonia Beach. Sixty years of marriage. I'm on eight. And quickly catching up to you, but congratulations.
 Sad news is the city of Rockford lost a former alderman and just wonderful person, Ken Staff. Ken Staff was an alderman of the 4th Ward from 81 to 85, and then he was alderman of the 12th Ward from 85 to 89. And in conversations I've had with my dad in the past, I think...
 He shared a lot of experiences with Kent staff. I think they had a number of heated debates, but one thing he absolutely loved about Kent staff is that he kept it to debates about the policies and not about the people he was having concerns over or were presenting opposing ideas. And I think this body does that very well, but I think we could use a lot more of that in today's culture. So I just want to...
 Say that we'll be remembering Ken and his family as this experience is difficult past any other officers reports. Okay. We'll move on appointments are laid over until after January 15th and we'll go to motions and resolutions code and regulation committee. Alderman. Thank you honor 1st is an annexation agreement for 41.
 48 oh one Linden Road and number two is the initiation agreement for 5055 Linden Road Place those up for passage. So we have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll Dirk? Gasparini to bird frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely
 Chiarelli aye 11 ayes 1 no, thank you. So those both of those items will move forward. We have a
 No Finance and Personnel Committee items, so we'll go to New Business and Code and Regulation Committee. Again, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Now I have an ordinance approving the annexation of 4801 Linden Road and an ordinance approving the annexation of 5055 Linden Road. I place these two ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the two items before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Yes, Braney. Aye.
 Toomer frost Herbie urban's Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely I 11 eyes one no
 Thank you, so those items pass next up I will turn it back over to alderman Shirely because he has more good news as we end this year. Thank you director Nicholas Oh Myers, thank you with great Anticipation from the council your honor I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters and labor negotiation matters
 we have a motion we have a second a reluctant second um is there any discussion scene no discussion uh clerk would you please call the roll hi hi hi hi hi thank you