I MEAN, URBAN'S PRESIDENT AT ALL? TAMSON TULLEY? YEAH. HOFFMAN? HERE. ROSE? PRESENT. BEACH? HERE. KEENONUTS? HERE. HANLEY? HERE. MCNEILLY? HERE. 12th PART. OKAY. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
 Sorry about that. Just a screen. We have no proclamations this evening under petitions and communications. First I'll go to director Niekmaier.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We have a referral to the Code of Regulation Committee for consideration to me. Sorry, January 11th meeting, a special event for the Walk for Life to be held on January 23rd, 2021 at 10 a.m. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 under planning and development uh we have a memorandum from lapakiri of bond assistant city attorney regarding the renewal of the operating agreement between the city of africa and rockford park district for davis park state park for one year referred to banking development under code and regulation committee traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on january 13 2021
 for consideration of the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 25, 2021. Referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Under financing personnel, memory item from Todd Hughes, Information Technology Director, regarding an amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement for the RMS project, referred to financing personnel. Item number two, memory item from Jennifer Jaeger, Community Services, services regarding acceptance,
 of the IACAA DHS Employment Barrier Reduction Pilot Grant Award referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. From number four, new committee reports. Planning and Development. We have one item.
 proposed tax increment financing development agreement between the city of rockford and bush development llc for the property located at 7 north batman street the new library the legal direction shall prepare the appropriate order there are motion to approve i'll make the motion is there any discussion
 When you think I will Hi Timber Hi, no, I'm Kelly Hi
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 for a variation to increase the number of permanent business identification wall signs from two signs to three signs approval for the variation to increase the height and menu board from 60 to 63 inches
 approval for a variation increase to primary score footage of the menu board from 36 score sheets to 38 from 4 score sheets and 3 general subject to the conditions and all the amendments that we made in committee
 Item 2, 1115 Charles Street, the special use permit for body hour services and barbershop services in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 1115 Charles Street.
 Subject to condition, legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, 6776, the state zoning board of appeals recommends approval for a special use permit for a quick loop automotive oil change facility in a C2 limited commercial zoning district. Subject to conditions. Mr. Meyer, do I need to read item four since it already was voted down? No.
 Thank you. Item 5.
 1909 11th Street liquor and tobacco. I apologize. This is a community report. So yes, we need to read that. I'm sorry. Thank you. I should have known that. Item 4, 1625 St. Powell Road. Liquor and tobacco advisory board recommends denial for the modification of existing liquor license consisting of a restaurant and video gaming facility to change the liquor license classification to WB 52 and WB.
 for the sale of wine and beer by the drink in a C3 general.
 1909 11th Street Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store. The sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store in the 91 Lake Deseret District at 1909 11th Street. Subject to conditions and legal directions to prepare the appropriate events.
 Item number 6205 West State Street. Necklace Backward Advisory Board recommends following approval of the sale of local by the Durkin Construction with the restaurant by the terminals in an outdoor seating area.
 Also a denial for the sale of packaged water in conjunction with a restaurant bar video game in an outdoor seating area. Approval for the sale of packaged beer and wine in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 205 West 8th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director will prepare the appropriate road ends.
 Item 7908 West Riverside Boulevard. Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval of the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar and grill and video gaming terminals in the C2 Limited Commercial Zone District at 980 West Riverside Boulevard. Subject to conditions, the Director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 18 South 6th Street, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends the following. Approval of the sale of tobacco in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store. We have the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store. Denial of the sale of liquor by the drink and video bleeding through milk in an I-1 light industrial assembly district at 18 South 6th Street. So Alderman, we have eight items before you. Is there any discussion on those eight items?
 Mr. Mayor, just to make sure that item B1, that was read correctly, that all three items A, B, and C are all for approval. Thank you. Is there any discussion? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? No on one. Aye on the rest. Logan in. Aye. Aye.
 Aye. Tumor? Aye. Ross? No on three. Aye on the remainder. Hervey? No on one. Aye on the remainder. Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rowe? Aye. Beech? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp?
 I'M SORRY, WAS THAT AN AYE, ALDERMAN BEACH? AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 Letter C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Item 1, vouchers in the amount of $12,149,288.66. Item 2, intergovernmental agreement between the City of African States and the United States and U.S. Business 20, West Street, and Bay Avenue, San Diego, and Bay Avenue.
 outlining the improvements and responsibilities. That's where the total cost of the project is 9,200,000. The funding sources are federal HPP, $1,837,391. Federal NHPP, $5,522,609. State, $1,434,453. And the city of Rockford is, that number is not accurate. I believe it is...
 Let me go back and find it. Sorry. $405,547. The legal director shall prepare their report with intergovernmental item number three. Intergovernmental agreements between the City of Stockton and Rockville-Bootwater Restoration District for Buxby Creek Bank Stabilization.
 The project is estimated to cost approximately $500,000, which includes an estimated cost of Rack River Water Reclamation District items in this agreement. The $3,500 Rack River Water Reclamation District agrees to reimburse the City 100% of the expenses related to the agreement's specified items, the funding sources, CIP general funds, and Rack River Water Reclamation District funds.
 Item 4. Item 4, the approval of proposed sale of the city-owned property located at 410 North 4th Street to CMBC Investments LLC of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $1,000. The buyer is a contiguous property owner and is planning on developing the block once assembly is complete. The legal director will approve the appropriate ordinance. Item 5, approval of amendments to Section 2-407 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances governing rules governing purchasing.
 We've got five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Bloomberg. Aye. Brass. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 RUES? AYE. BEACH? AYE. QUINONAS? AYE. HANLEY? AYE. MCNEILLY? NO ON 5, AYE ON THE REST. I JUST WANT TO MAKE A COMMENT REGARDING NUMBER 2, MAYOR, WEST 8th STREET.
 I just want to thank staff for all the work they've done on West State Street. It's been several years and certainly very pleasing to myself as well as my constituents to see that we're getting to the last phase of what State Street excluding Father West. So, thanks, staff, for everything you've done today.
 The vote was 12 ayes on 1, 2, 3, 4, and item 5, 11 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. First, Chaz, can you hear me? I was told my, it was a little shaky before. You can hear me? Yes, sorry. Yes, I can.
 Roman numeral five, appointment of Crystal Solpower to the community action board to fill a vacant private sector position. She will serve a three-year term. This comes up now for us to vote since it's after December 23rd. I do realize most of you just got your resume today, so if you wanted more time to be able to reach out to her and contact her, we could certainly afford you that time.
 I would appreciate it. I guess I missed it. I didn't see the resume yet. Sorry. Just sent out today, so we'll get it going. If you could reach out to Alderman Hover by next Monday, that'd be great. I will.
 Thank you. And sorry again that was so delayed. Rule 6, motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development or program regulation committee. But under finance and personnel, we have a host of matters. Work number one is award a bid, 2020 demolition group contract.
 16 time tracker LLC of Loves Park, Illinois in the amount of $124,574 for the demolition of 1633 17th Avenue, 704 Winnebago Street, 916 Willard Avenue, 1722 Westview Drive, 1226 West Street, 3711 Oak Grove Avenue, 522 Napoleon, 2814 Marshall Street.
 1120 Greenmount Rear Street, 719 Buckingham Street, 510 Acorn Street, 1018 12th Avenue, 1225 7th Street. Funding sources, Community Development Block Grant and Sanitation Fund. Number two, award a bid. Network equipment to Sentinel Technologies of Donna's Grove, Illinois in the amount of $37,810. This amount will be utilized as new police property and evidence building the funding sources and bond proceeds.
 Item 3, award of non-competitive contract, chemical feed equipment, supplies and services to Smith Ecological System of Rockford, Illinois for an estimated annual contract of $125,000. The contract duration is one year before possible annual extensions, annual price adjustments for CPI considered as a new rule.
 the funding sources of water fund operating budget number four change order light heat emergency furnace mechanical services to total clothing and heating of mcchesney park illinois original amount is sixty seven thousand six hundred sixteen dollars the change order amount is one hundred seventy one thousand five hundred and eighty two dollars and ninety percent and
 for a total revised contract amount of 239 198.90 city of brockford has received additional funding for assisting with emergency furnace repairs and replacements for income qualified homeowners the funding sources the illinois department of commerce and economic opportunity office of energy assistance resource solutions
 Item 5 resolution for improving under the Illinois Highway Code requires council authorization for use of motor fuel packs on the West State Street Phase 2 construction in an amount of $405,547.
 Item 6, renewal of contract workers compensation excess policy to safety national casualty corporation of St. Louis, Missouri. For the contract amount rates, premium is based on the estimated annual payroll of $90,145,567 at .227 per $100 of payroll. For the total estimated annual premium of $204,630. The contract duration is
 is annual as it's renewed funding source is workers compensation fund so all the main ways six items but this is there any discussion on those six items see no discussion please call the roll jerky hi logeman hi toonberg hi ross hi pervy hi thompson kenton hi hoffman hi
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you. And again, just a reminder, I'm mute, and those who are not speaking, so that you don't have that feedback. Billment in the room, number seven, new business ordinances. Letter A, Planning and Development Committee, an ordinance approving the tax and financing development between the City of Rockford and Bush Development LLC for the property located at 227 North Wyman Street, the new library. Is there any discussion on this? If not, quickly, please call the roll.
 Okay, thank you. All right. No. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 Alderman Canones Aye Thank you. Alderman Hanley Aye McNeely No 10 ayes 2 noes Excellent. Letter B Code and Regulation Committee and Number 1 in order to improving the variation to increase the height of the menu board from six feet to six feet
 three inches in the height and variation to increase the permitted square footage of the menu board from 36 square feet to 38.4 square feet in the general commercial zoning district at 67 27 east riverside boulevard you could also need to include a tool for variation increase the number of permitted uh business identification raw signs from two to three
 thank you uh director uh that included uh item two in order is approving a special use permit for the body art services and barbershop services and the c4 urban mixing zoning district at 1115 charles street item three in ordinance approving a special use permit for a quick road automotive world change facility and a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 67 76 east state street
 item four an audience approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the i-1 light industrial zoning district at 1901 11th street item five an audience approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and i won light industrial zoning district at 1911 11th street point six uh
 Adam Sexton, audience approving the sale of liquor by the drinking construction with the restaurant bar, video game, terminal center, and outdoor seating area, and a safe work urban mixed-use zoning district at 205 West 8th Street.
 Item 7, in ordinance approving the sale of Packers Beer and Wine at C4 Urban Mixed Use Zoning District at 205 West 8th Street. Item 8, in ordinance approving the sale of Record by the Drunking Junction with a Bar and Grill and Video Gaming Terminals in a T2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 90 West Riverside Boulevard.
 Item 9, an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and to be installed at I-1 White Industrial Zone in District 818 South 6th Street. Item 10, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station to be installed in I-1 White Industrial Zone in District 818 South 6th Street. Is there any discussion on those 10 items before me?
 I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I.
 Aye. Dietsch? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Item number one, 10 ayes, 2 noes. Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, 12 ayes.
 Thank you. Letter C, finance and personnel. Number one, in order to answer proving that incremental agreement between the city of Rockland and the state of Illinois for the State's U.S. business 20, from Day Avenue to Independence Avenue, outlining the improvements and responsibilities. That's where the total cost of the project is 9.2 million, which 400 .
 All of which is $405,547 is the city which is MFT. The city will be using motor fuel pens to match some of the precautions, funding sources are federal, state, and local.
 I'd like to note that in approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rackford and Rackford Water Reclamation District for Buckbeak Creek Bank Stabilization, the project is estimated to cost $500,000, which includes the estimated cost of Rackford Water Reclamation District. Items in this agreement would be $48,500. Rackford Water Reclamation District agrees to reimburse the City $100,000.
 of the expenses related to the specified items. Funding sources, the CIP General Fund and the Water Reconstruction District Fund. Item three, an ordinance approving the sale of the city-owned property located on 410 North 4th Street to CNBC Investments LLC of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $1,000. Item four, an ordinance approving the amendments to section 2-407 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances regarding rules governing purchasing.
 Alderman, there's four items before we go through any discussion on those four items. Question, Your Honor? Yes, Alderman Hervey. For the remainder of West 8th Street, first, what is the western end of the redevelopment, at least as is currently planned, and how many more phases before they get to that western endpoint? Okay.
 Mr. Hinkins from Mr. Saunders. Mr. Saunders yes, thank you. Mayor. So all of them in Herbie, this is phase 2, which the extents are they Avenue to Independence Avenue.
 PHASE ONE IF YOU REMEMBER WAS INDEPENDENT TO CHILBURN PHASE THREE WAS SPRINGFIELD TO DAY AVENUE AND THEN PHASE FOUR IS MERIDIAN TO SPRINGFIELD AVENUE I BELIEVE PHASE ONE PHASE TWO HAVE ALREADY BEEN COMPLETED AND PHASE THREE WOULD BE IS OUTSIDE OF THE FIVE-YEAR STATE PLAN SO THAT PHASE THREE IS THE LAST PORTION OF WHAT WE'RE WHAT THIS IG8 COVERS UH YET TO BE COMPLETED
 Okay, thank you. Thank you. So there's four items for four years. Is there any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Lee. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Kuehl. Aye. Kuehl. Aye. Kuehl. Aye. Kuehl.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Excellent. So next up we have officers reports. I just have a couple of items. First item I have is I just wanted all of you aware, I think I touched on it briefly at our last council meeting. So after the governor's attempt to get the fair tax pass failed,
 I immediately then reached out to my local delegation and urged all of them not to cut or steal the City of Oaxaca's share of the local government distributed funds.
 and then from that point i've reached out to all the mayors and winnebago county chairman shirely and asked them to sign on to a letter uh that i drafted urging all of our local delegations to again not cut the local government distributed fund and then from there i reached out to every mayor of cities over the city with a population of over 75 000 um
 and drafted a letter and had them sign onto that and reach out to their local representatives.
 Again, I'll make sure that you all get a copy of that letter, but I'd urge you all to contact our local representatives, specifically those that cover your areas, representatives and senators that cover your areas, and urge them not to cut our local government district. We know how devastating that has been in years past. And as they're facing an estimated $4 billion deficit, they will always look to hit the easy button,
 if this is correct, and that seems to be one of the reasons. So I just urge you to reach out to them. Second is I did also draft a letter and had all the mayors of Winnebago County sign it and send it to our local delegation as well as Governor Pritzker and asked for a host of different items regarding restaurants.
 hospitality industry and I'll make sure that you get this letter as well but just in brief it outlines the struggles that they've had across the state this year many of which due to the mitigation summit asked for some more immediate assistance to take place right away and others it asked for some prolonged adjustments but I'll make sure that each of you get that.
 The third item I have for you is we have not had the opportunity to meet as a council since the horrific incident that took place at Don Carter.
 A couple of things. One, I'll just start with the thank yous. One, a sincere thank you to our telecommunicators, who are the people who take that very first phone call, incredibly difficult first phone calls for this incident.
 Secondly, a huge thank you to the City of Garford Police and Fire Departments for responding absolutely with no hesitation and professionalism to bring this event to a close.
 to a close before it could have been a lot worse. But that ended up being. Next, I would like to say a big thank you to the staff of Don Carter's who were there assisting patrons and most importantly would like to thank Alderman Beach for his leadership that's occurred after the San Diego mile. That's right snack and his
 his ward and where he's done a lot of advocacy for and shown a lot of leadership in the over the years, but also to all the citizens who just
 and really what robert always does an outpouring of support for the victims and outpouring support for the survivors as well as the business and hopefully we can use this really horrific event to bring this together as we move into 2021 after what was seemingly just a horribly violent year
 On a host of levels, so with that, I'll turn it over and I'll go to. Uh, thank you, your honor. Very well said and I would agree. I think we have some outstanding first responders. I can't think of the job that they do. I also understand that there were some pretty brave folks within Don Carter. That ushered some people out of there.
 And I would agree with your public comments. This does not define Rockford. But the response that we've seen by the community in support of the victims does define Rockford. So thank you, Your Honor, for your leadership in this transition as well. Thank you, sir.
 Alderman Logeman. Yes, Mayor and Alderman Durkee, I don't think I can say anything better than you two just said, but just continued excellent leadership by our city in the face of tragedy. Just a couple other lighter notes, or not lighter notes, but one is garbage, and I think...
 The communications team, I think the second word is the most alleys in the city, and certainly with garbage. I appreciated Laura Marr's communication today that over the next two days, trash pickup might be or is going to be on the street. Obviously, there's a Thursday pickup there, too. That's kind of undecided, but...
 Uh, would just ask and I'll speak with the city's liaison to Rd 2. it seems like residents appreciate the more proactive communication. So appreciate that and continued work with that. But, yeah, just more proactive communication.
 Going forward. And then I was asked by a constituent, David Law, to just talk briefly about shoveling the sidewalks of some of our arterial streets. I'm looking at a press release from the police department here about another pedestrian dying because he or she was walking in the street. And it's, I mean, it really is tragic and avoidable.
 AND I KNOW BEFORE I LEFT TO GO OVERSEAS FOR A LITTLE BIT, I SPOKE WITH DIRECTOR STOCKMAN AT THE TIME. I'LL SPEAK WITH DIRECTOR SAUNDERS TOO A LITTLE BIT. BUT IT JUST SEEMS LIKE THE, A LOT OF THE PROPERTIES THAT ARE ON SOME OF OUR ARTERIAL STREETS ARE THE LEAST LIKELY TO SHOVEL THEIR SIDEWALKS. I SEE IT ALL THE TIME WHEN SCHOOL IS IN SESSION, KIDS, YOU KNOW, WALKING TO AUBURN HIGH SCHOOL OR EAST HIGH SCHOOL ON AUBURN STREET OR CHARLES STREET, SO IT'S, IT'S, IT'S
 dangerous stuff um i'll talk with director saunders a little more on that but um important stuff all around thank you thank you all other men timber mayor all valid points uh spoken uh previously the sidewalks and
 So, Mayor, I gave you a call and submitted you on to her comments on Don Carter. Tragic situation. Our hearts all, of course, go out to the families affected by this.
 us. Don Carter, the business itself, though, just does a fantastic job for our community, has a lot of fundraisers, and is somebody that spends a lot of time there because my son's an avid bowler. I see it firsthand, and it's just a great, great organization. All the way to the beach, thank you for stepping up, too, and doing what you've done, and
 There and chief and chief, and thank you for all your guys and gals who have have done a phenomenal job in the in that moment. So, thank you very much.
 On a little lighter note, as Alderman Logerman mentioned, I see we approved an individual. Is it Sonia? Sonia? Or Crystal, I'm sorry. Crystal Soltow. I thought it was kind of ironic seeing her resume, and she is in the field of fitness and
 And eating healthy as we debated Culver's tonight. So I thought that was a little bit there and and mayor. I. I see that you have redone the 8th floor to make it look like more homey.
 And so you did a good job on that, but I hope that it wasn't at the taxpayer expense. And you might find yourself in our former esteemed U.S. Congressman from Peoria if you had any taxpayer dollars in making that eighth floor look like your home. So got to watch it on that.
 It doesn't look like a PBS special show, that's for sure. All right. Thank you, all the YouTubers. All the results.
 thank you i also was concerned about uh as alderman tunberg indicated the um the downtown abbey look of uh near uh studio or cities in but we can talk about that later um on obviously a very serious note um uh on december 26 when the tragic
 shooting event and fatalities took place at Don Carter. I called the mayor shortly thereafter, and we spoke about his leadership and both chiefs
 Chief O'Shea and Chief Bergston and all the city staff who responded so professionally to that. Within a couple hours, I started getting texts from some of my high school buddies who live around the country, very concerned about Rockford because, as the mayor and Alderman Durkee indicated,
 the criminal acts of this individual don't define our city. It was just unfortunate, obviously, that it happened anywhere, but it was truly unfortunate that it happened within the city of Rockford. But again, what really defines the city is how the community
 for all these folks, the business, the fatality victims, the shooting victims, the patrons that were there and rallied around that. And Alderman Beach, I want to give you, I talked to you also early on, and I want to give you credit and kudos. You've worked with the Miracle Mile for a long time in assembling a team and doing a great job of coming together and bringing people together.
 together especially at the candlelight vigil the amount of variety of media faith you had there praying for these families it was was truly touching so if anything of that unfortunate event can come out of it is how rockford should be defined for responding to that event thank you
 Yes, thank you, Your Honor. A couple things. I just want to remind everyone that we have a new test site. I just saw the email today that is open for COVID-19 testing.
 AND IT IS AT THE UW HEALTH, IT SAYS THE UPPER PARKING LOT. I DON'T KNOW HOW TO DESCRIBE THAT. BUT WHEN I'M DONE, IF ANYBODY CAN THINK OF A BETTER WAY, I THINK YOU STILL GO THROUGH THE SAME ENTRANCE. SO BUT IT IS AVAILABLE MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY. SO SATURDAY IS NOW INCLUDED FROM 930 AND 930.
 a.m. until four o'clock p.m. This is the rapid test. I went and took one when it was still over at the medical school. And it's not like the one where you feel like your eyes are gonna come out of their socket. It's just a bottom nasal swab. You do both nasals, you do it yourself.
 you put it in the enclosure and you drive away. Takes barely 10 minutes. And that included my wait time. So I would encourage if people are
 concerned about whether they've had some exposure or our family wanted to get together I hadn't hugged my sister until since March and it was really starting to get to me that I couldn't go and have a cup of coffee with her so we all went and got tested and
 we're able to at least have some interaction because we all isolated ourselves. So for whatever reason, if you need a test, I believe, Mayor, someone help me out here, this is the only site that is now up in Rockford? I don't believe it's the only site. Director Tegnone or Director Tegnone?
 Thank you, so you're referencing the. The site run by the Department of public health on Sandy how it is the only. Open to the general public at this point in time. I'm sorry go ahead. I'm sorry I thought she was referencing the site down by and I believe that was going to be run by.
 There was one that was run by Oak Street Health, yes. Okay. Okay. All right. So the one on Sandy Hollow is going still open? Yes, ma'am. Okay. There was some confusion because I got a call that that one was, never mind. I'm not going to even repeat it because that will just make it worse. The other thing I wanted to mention without going into a soapbox,
 It is as horrible as the Don Carter shootings were. They were within the 36, I believe we ended up 36 homicides in the city of Rockford for 2020. That eclipsed our previous record when we thought the city was absolutely terrorized by the
 WE HAVE SOME PRETTY BAD PEOPLE AND WE HAVE SOME HORRIBLE SOME PRETTY BAD PEOPLE AND WE HAVE SOME HORRIBLE STUFF GOING ON. STUFF GOING ON. THERE WAS AN ARTICLE IN THE THERE WAS AN ARTICLE IN THE PAPER ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WE'VE GOT PAPER ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WE'VE GOT TO COME TOGETHER AND COME UP TO COME TOGETHER AND COME UP WITH A WAY TO REDUCE CRIME IN WITH A WAY TO REDUCE CRIME IN OUR CITY. OUR CITY. AND I WISH WE COULD HAVE A AND I WISH WE COULD HAVE A SERIES OF FORUMS ABOUT THAT. SERIES OF FORUMS ABOUT THAT. SMALL GROUP, WHATEVER IT IS SMALL GROUP, WHATEVER IT IS THAT WE W
 And it's not just the police department. It's not just how many people can you arrest, how many actions can you take against criminals. We've got to talk about our school system. We've got to talk about the fact that we either cannot or will not teach children to read by the time they are exiting third grade.
 just a host of things, but it is, it kind of not ruined my New Year's, but I couldn't get that out of my head. All of the things that are impacting our crime rate in Rockford and how that in turn is impacting whether people want to be here.
 I just think we're on the cusp of some very great things in the city of Rockford, from economic development, from rescuing some neighborhoods and businesses. I think we've done huge work as a council over the 12 years that I've been on council.
 to advance everything from operating policies to economic development strategy. And I'm excited about those things. But the crime has – it's dampening everything that we do. And I don't want to sound like, you know, wet blanket Nellie or something, but –
 We've got to come together. I'd love it if council, if we could have a retreat. And again, on a positive note, what are some things that we can do, grassroots all the way up to business and leadership, state partnerships to address the crime issues that we have? What are the root causes? What's causing it?
 check the egos at the door, but I'll stop at that point. It's just a huge issue that's just not going anywhere, I think, until we take some definitive, positive, direct steps to address it. Thank you. Thank you. It certainly needs to be attached to all the accounts and credits.
 Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. First, I have a few things. One of the things is the alley, the garbage picked up in the alley. I want to thank Public Works for acknowledging the fact that the trucks couldn't get down the alley. But I think we had a conversation a
 a couple years back to there, when we pulled the pickup out of the alley that we would do all the alleys for that pickup, which wouldn't confuse any individuals. I had some calls saying whether or not the pickup would be in their alley. Some individuals have their alleys plowed and some don't.
 So maybe we can get with public works to find out if we have a situation that we can't do, that we just blundered and go out of our way.
 That's one concern. Another concern I want to compliment the city staff and the public works department for the main furrows that for the snow removal. Unfortunately, I had quite a few calls and complaints about the residential areas.
 with our contractors and I've had to call public works several times over the last few days for streets that were not even plowed. I don't know if we've got new contractors or if we've changed the route or what, but I think we need to pay attention to that so it doesn't happen again.
 And also I wanted to mention to our residents about the jet food. There's a lot of things going on and I just want to assure them, Your Honor, with your staff that nothing has been decided upon.
 We cannot afford not to listen to any developer that comes to town whether it's going to come into fruition or not. But we have not decided on a just move, at least as far as I know we haven't. You would know if it does. You guys would be the ones helping us decide on it. We have not decided, and quite honestly, our articles probably are a bit premature. Our team is just simply doing.
 Doing our analysis as we do with every proposal, if we bring them forward to you, I'm sure I too have received phone calls and emails and some believe that.
 they're the first to tell us uh of this tournament's background uh our team's been well aware we've known about it for months and just continuing to work as we do with all potential development as you still do and we'll do our due diligence and have full faith in our team and if we bring something forward it'll have uh protections and if we don't uh we'll keep moving forward and see what else we can work on thank you
 And Happy New Year. Happy New Year to you as well. Next up, we will go to Alderman Hoffman. When you did Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank you, Mayor. There's not much more I can say about all the great people that worked on the issue with Don Carter. There's just so many who did a wonderful job, and the citizens coming out on Saturday, all of that was wonderful. But to back up Venita, I would like to see us start focusing on diversion programs,
 so that we get our kids away from gangs before they ever become problematic and before they ever pick up a gun. I'd rather help them in the beginning so that they have a good life rather than try and figure out how to rebuild it after they get out of jail. I want to stop prison graduations.
 And just keep the kids in our community. So I think that's something we need to really look at is diversion. Thank you. Absolutely. I, again, think public safety needs to be our top priority, but I.
 One, having the most homicides in any year, some of the most violent cities I've ever seen, does not accept it. But with that being said, I do think you should also take pride in some of the initiatives that we have passed that I think will have some long-term benefits. Thank you.
 I mean, it didn't come easy, but I can't hope that works with young people impacted by trauma in their households and in the homes. Quite honestly, guys, that's who is shooting at each other today. So that's why that program was so important that we got that passed.
 when we talk about the cannabis policy we brought up seven, eight weeks ago now, putting money into not just the diffusion but the reentry, those folks who are coming back and get those programs funded that aren't just simply grant dependent as we've had some good success in the past is really critical. And I think also another program through Jennifer's office and
 in the mayor's office of domestic violence and human trafficking prevention is it doesn't get a lot of press but it's a georgetown low entry initiative so that these young people aren't entering as you just mentioned alderman hoffman never entering into the system at all as opposed to just dealing with folks on the back thank you thank you mayor i mirror everything that is said
 uh uh i think we you know one of the things brought up about kids uh in our schools is we have to realize that when when kids are growing up under trauma
 circumstances that their brain doesn't develop at the same rate as a kid who normally has a loving family and people who reach them and things of that sort. And when our community comes to that realization, we're going to continue to put resources into those kind of programs that address trauma. But there, I mean, just seeing it every day, you know,
 Trauma is really the issue that we're facing. And the Erickson data that came out last year really models what that data says. It says that young people in this community are experiencing trauma at exorbitant rates.
 and that it's impacting their educational achievement. And so until we really address that problem, and I know we are doing it through Camp Hope and through the Family Justice Center, but really putting more resources into counseling, you know, really mandating that our hospitals provide services, you know,
 the state to mandate that because the state isn't doing that. We're going to continue to see this. I also would like to bring up an idea of really looking at the focus deterrence model that we are doing except for the grant we lost through R1 which allows for navigators to work with those people coming back from
 a prison population and offering them resources that keep them out of that criminal activity when they do arrive here. I'm hoping that that could be a conversation we look at, but also taking an approach where it's just frustrating because I've been to more candlelight vigils this year than my three or four years combined, and
 I don't know if people get sick and tired of going to those candlelight vigils. I know I am. And I think we have to really come to some decisions as a council as to what we want to do about it. And I would agree with Ms. Hervey that I'd like to get a broader conversation with all the aldermen around that and even take a look at some of our housing policies because we know we're not providing...
 Not even mediocre housing in this community for for young people and they're experiencing that as a result of this trauma. So. I would just like to say, in regards to the shooting at Don Carter, our police department and 1st responders just deserve. Just, I mean, their response time was critical and get in saving lives and.
 We have some of the best EMTs. We have some of the best officers in this community. And the way they responded saved lives. And my prayers go out to the Don Carter family, the people that work there, the people that go there, that make that place a home, and continue to support that family-owned business. And just real quick, one other item, the NESMA program.
 um neighborhood which is north end square neighborhood is hosting a zoo meeting around some of the criminal activities that is happening uh in and around the ward and they're going to be doing that on wednesday so they can uh get the link from uh vicky fogle who is the uh president will be hosting that meeting and we'll have some officers and uh from your administration on that as well
 That's it, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I was just doing some thinking here about what many of the aldermen were saying. You know, it's very interesting when you look at the iceberg. Only about a third of it is above the surface, two-thirds below. And I think oftentimes what we're doing is we're trying to treat the symptoms to the problem.
 I think as Vanita said, we need to get to the root cause, whether it's the root of bitterness, whether it's moral impurity, whether it's thoughts of suicide, real or perceived. Many articles that I've read have said that kids think they're going to be dead or gone by the time they're 21. They have nothing really to care about. These guns come out and they fire.
 I'M REALLY SORRY ABOUT THAT IT REALLY HURTS ME VERY VERY DEEPLY AND THAT'S WHY I THINK THAT WE NEED TO UM TAKE IT TO A DEEPER LEVEL TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IT IS I I WILL JUST BE UM WELL I THINK THAT'S ENOUGH SAID FROM THAT POINT UM
 It does disturb me. You know, I guess I say one more point. That's one of the things that's really bothered me a lot about the Head Start program.
 NOT DOING A GOOD JOB, BUT I THINK THEY CAN GET DONE WITH THE CHILDREN BY THE TIME THEY'RE FIVE YEARS OF AGE. AND NOTHING REALLY OF SUBSTANCE, IN MY OPINION, TAKES PLACE BETWEEN THEM AND THE TIME THEY GET OUT OF HIGH SCHOOL, LET ALONE MIDDLE SCHOOL WHERE A LOT OF THIS STUFF, DECISIONS ARE MADE IN THESE KIDS' MIND WHERE THEY'RE GOING TO GO TO IN THEIR TIME WITH
 and what's going to happen as far as their life goals are. So I do think we've got a lot of discussion that can be done. Another thing, Your Honor, is I think that the public works director, Kyle, sent me kind of a rendering drawing of what people might be able to do to help when the snowplow comes by the second time and shovels them in.
 and they're very upset about it and I don't blame them. I don't know whether he can take a picture of all the aldermen, get a picture of that they might want to distribute it out to the constituencies, to their Facebook or whatever. I thought it was very useful. And then again, to maybe close out my remarks, to see the tender heart of both John Summer, his family, and Brad, his son,
 I WAS OVERWHELMED SATURDAY NIGHT WHEN I STOOD ON THAT PLATFORM AND SAW HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE THAT CAME OUT IN THE COLD TO PAY THEIR RESPECTS. AND YOUR HONOR, YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT. THAT EVENT, THAT TIME, THAT MOMENT, THOSE PEOPLE, THOSE CANDLES DEFINED WHO WE ARE.
 for your leadership in that area. That's the end of my comments. Thank you. Alderman Pinone? Yes, Your Honor, I got two things. The first thing is I want to thank Chief O'Shea and Chief Berks and the first responders for doing a good job out there with the Don Carter incident. And my second thing, Your Honor, is I've been on a lot of phone calls.
 Bars and restaurants. They like to know when they be able to open up, talk to the governor and see what kind of time frame we can get because people are ready to go back to work. Thank you. Alderman Henry.
 Thank you, your honor. So the rest of the city council kind of summed up pretty much everything I had to say, except for there really aren't any words to express how horrible and senseless what happened at Don Carter lanes was truly. So my prayers, my heart goes out to all the victims and their families. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeil.
 I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO EXTEND CONDOLENCES TO EVERYONE REGARDING THE BOWLING ALLEY. IT'S EXTREMELY SAD TO KEEP HEARING ABOUT THE SHOOTING. AND I DON'T KNOW IF ANYONE REALLY HAS AN ANSWER FOR IT, BUT I'M GLAD THAT WE'RE ALL CONCERNED ABOUT IT AND WORKING WITH IT. AND REGARDING THE EDUCATIONAL ISSUE THAT AUTUMN KIRBY BROUGHT UP.
 I think that if we're going to have a discussion as community leaders, we can't leave out the one person who is the main person in education, which is the superintendent. So I do hope that he would join us in discussions regarding the kids from kindergarten through the third grade and have that improvement and be able to see our kids take advantage of the promise
 that we passed a few weeks ago. I wish everyone the very best of the new year to you and your families and to all of my constituents and the whole city. Thank you. Thank you. And I think I'd be remiss if I didn't offer Chief Occhiai and opportunity to keep everyone in the same place.
 Thanks, Mayor. Thank you all the women for all the comments and acknowledging the police and the fire and the dispatch telecommunicators. They did an amazing job. I will tell you, in 31 years, I've had two mass shooting incidents. And I watched the men and women of Rockford respond to this one. And I've never seen better trained.
 more high quality officers and firefighters than I did that night. And I have to thank all the other agencies that really helped us out. I mean, from the County Sheriff, the State Police, the Loves Park, the Park District, the State Police, Cherry Valley, Roscoe, Durand even sent officers, Pecatonica. I mean, everybody that heard the radio calls sent officers to come and assist us.
 For an hour afterwards, and we are very, very fortunate not only to have our people here in the city. But we are very, very fortunate really good partners in law enforcement and. Fire protection outside the city so I just want to say, thanks. Thank you. You had another comment concerning.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Yeah, I'd ask if you could ask Chief Berkson to give a little bit of better clarity and correct some of my statements related to the availability of COVID testing within our community. I've never thought you've been wrong on anything, Mr. Tejnani, so it's hard for me to do this, but Chief Berkson, can you please correct any misstatements that I've mentioned so far?
 I'd be glad to. Like I said, I don't think he's ever been wrong either. It's just clarification. Oak Street Health is running a free COVID test. It's a rapid test and it is free to anybody who wants to come by. We're going to set that up in the upper parking lot at the UW Sports Center. And then the one, like you said earlier, from UICM Parkview has relocated to the old Kmart on Sandy Hollow and they're operating as normal. The same,
 the same task drive through, and that's been working out very well. People have been getting the results back in 24 hours or less. So we are gonna have two testing sites. We still have the one that just moved from UIC and then Oak Street's gonna be getting theirs up and running. I don't have hours on it yet, but we can get that from our EOC tomorrow and get an estimated time, and then we can email that out, have Laura send that out to everybody for that. Any other questions on the testing site?
 I WOULD LIKE TO THANK EVERYBODY FOR THEIR NICE COMMENTS. LIKE CHIEF O'SHEA SAID, WHEN YOU LISTEN TO THOSE CALLS, THAT FIRST FIVE TO TEN MINUTES IS VERY CHAOTIC. INITIAL TELECOMMUNICATORS THAT WERE ON PHONE,
 on the phones with people inside and talking with people that were shot, trying to get them assistance, and then for the police officers to secure the scene so we could get the victims removed. It seems like it takes forever, but it worked very well, and
 Very harmoniously with everybody and then the paramedics did an incredible job and the telecommunicator stuck with him the whole time and the police officers are making sure everybody was safe to get in that building and anyone that was left. So, thanks for all your comments and definitely a great job by everyone. Thank you. With that motion to address so moved.
 We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion? No. I'm just saying. Logaman. That's through me. I was thinking if there's time to fight someone against him. Alderman Tumber. Aye. Rocks.
 Aye. Herbie? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Alderman Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye.
 11-9. Thank you. Have a good night, everyone. Bye.