With that, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toomer. Hervey. Irvins. Hoffman. Rowe. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Alderman Frost. Alderman Rose. Ten present. Thank you. We have a quorum. Can I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for city council meeting held on December 18, 2017? Yes.
 All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Item passes. We have no proclamations this evening, and under petitions and communications for Codes and Regulations Committee, Alderman Chiarelli.
 Just trying to make you do more things at once. Thank you. I got three items this evening. First item is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on January 10, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Rights meeting on January 22, 2018.
 A memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the amendment of the Moe to Own Program Properties List. The third is a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the transfer of city-owned property to Rockford Corridor Improvement, RCI, under the Blood Reduction Program. All three will be referred to Code as read, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Next, will you have public speakers? I will remind public speakers that they have three minutes to speak. Alderman Frost, did you have additional items? I'm sorry. Under the Finance and Personnel Committee, there was an item that wasn't attached, but it's a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding approval to retain outside counsel regarding an opioid litigation matter, and this matter will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. I'm sorry. I missed that.
 Moving on to public speakers. Each public speaker will have three minutes to speak. And our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Job, the fifth chapter, the 17th verse, it says, Blessed is the man whom God corrects, so do not despise the discipline of the Almighty. What I want to speak about tonight, how to balance your budget...
 by using my system, the $3.75 a week system. If 95,000 people in Rockland give $15 each a month for one month, that's $1,425,000 times 12 months. That's $17,100,000 for one year. Enough money to balance your budget for 2018. You wouldn't have to go up on property taxes or go up on business fees. These property taxes are killing people in Rockland. If you keep
 using my system, you would never have to worry about any more deficit. You wouldn't have to lay people off. Every time you go up on business fees, people leave Rockford. And business fees, this make you lose money. And if you keep your prices low, business would move in Rockford. And business that's here would stay here.
 This would help bring more revenue in Rockford. This also would help put people to work. This also would help reduce crime in this city. Because people would be worked. They wouldn't be have to. They wouldn't be idle. Because idle mind and idle hands are the devil's workshop. Rockford, you got to stop depending on them idiots in Washington or Springfield to help you. You got to help yourself to get out of this hellish condition you are in. If you subtract...
 11 million dollar deficit. I know yours is only 10 million 200 thousand dollars. But if you subtract 11 million dollars from 17 million 400 thousand dollars, that will leave you with a surplus of 6 million 400 thousand dollars.
 I've never told you, but I got a degree in finance. That's why they had me in neighbor and tells me. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Happy New Year. And I've been wanting to tell my good friend, Ponser Brown, this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, Ponser Brown. I love you. You can't do nothing about it. And a happy birthday, and I wish you many more. God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet Yusuf. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Derek Shelby. Luke chapter 12.
 Verse 19 and 20. And I will say to my soul, soul, thou has made much goods later for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, thou fool, tonight thy soul is required of thee. Thou fool, tonight thy soul is required of thee. Didn't anybody see the paper Sunday at the memorial with the, what was it, yesterday?
 With all the dead people in Rockford that has passed, the Lord's going to call your soul one day, especially these filthy, wicked people down here on this council. I sit here and listen to y'all this whole night. Y'all done said one thing about spending money from the west side, not one. That's free income revenue that y'all count on every year and don't put nothing back. Thank you.
 Take every dime out the West Side. I'm counting out a billion and 50 million. I counted from 2015, 16, 17. I added 5 million just to be fair. That's a billion and 50 million dollars you done took out the West Side the last 52 years.
 pure wickedness. You sit down here and talk about all this money tonight and this dumb stupid stuff about liquor and cigarettes and look, do y'all ride on the west side? Do y'all see the streets? That they ain't did a damn thing to them in 52 years? That they are totally decrepit and the people on the west side pay taxes.
 Thou fool, tonight thy soul is required to be. There are some people this year, the Lord going to call you into his judgment, and they going to say how good they've been in all the red carpet, them 55 people that I had mentioned once before.
 Somebody gonna die this year and all this all these plans don't mean nothing So he said later It's for these all these years and eat drink and be married the Lord when the Lord called you a fool you're in trouble You hear me anytime in the Bible the Lord calls you a fool you're in trouble and Jesus ain't this book y'all He's a person that didn't
 that did not sin and shed his blood for our sins and the Lord is not pleased with Rockford. Y'all not going to be happy till the Lord do something and bring this city to its knees. A wicked, filthy, evil city. Take all the money out the west side and don't put none back. Every year they sit down here, that lady sit over there talking about the budget.
 And then you've got the alderman talking about $10 gallons of paint that somebody paint some COVID. What about all the money you're taking out the west side and the black people and the poor white people on the west side? All that money you're using for revenue to take care of this wicked city. Thank you. Thank the Lord Jesus for his blood. Appreciate that, Reverend Shelby. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Bramley.
 Happy New Year, Mayor McNamara, our Auburn women, and the rest of the citizens that's left here in our chambers. Proverbs 27, with all the problems and concerns the leader had, it can be easy to overlook the very people who most deserve attention. I'm going to drop down to Galatians 2.15, verses 17.
 We who are Jews by birth and not sinful Gentiles know that a person is not justified by the work of the law, but by the faith in Jesus Christ. So we too have put our faith in Jesus Christ that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the work of the law, because by the work of the law, no one will be justified. We was at a fairground house in an area for a Christmas dinner on Saturday, December 16th.
 The party was motivated by desire, a beautiful beginning, and hosted by myself, a new attorney point program. We had food, games, DJ, entertainment, and we had over 133 youth and 19 adults from the Fairground Housing Area. We want to thank our sponsors, special guests, help including leaders, organizations, politicians, outstanding community members. The only downside about this event was most of the youth and adults,
 has not even heard of the Holland Gold Travelers game, and most of them didn't even know who Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was. And this here bothers me because we can't wait on our educational system to teach our youth our own history. It's up to us to step up to the plate and start teaching our history.
 We, I'm saying our history is being slowly but surely eradicated from our minorities. That's why they continue to do drugs, getting involved in a lot of negative things because they don't know our true history. On Wednesday, I reached our goal for the 30 youth and adults. On Saturday, we was able to take 45 youth and adults to the Harlem Gold Travel Gang at 2 p.m. The ticket at the door was $32.50. We was able to get them at $18.50.
 a person a razor with nine hundred dollars in less than ten days god is good i have and i will always keep the faith and leave everything in his hand whenever he called me i'm always there to do his work by the way the law has always given me some of the hardest job to do i have never complained because i love doing when he called on me to do i would always be there i want to also thank uh... market here for rockland housing authority and the c o from the bank
 center for working behind the scenes to come up with 12 more tickets so that we would be able to take a few more youth to the Harlem Gold Travelers game. I also want to mention about the libraries have stepped up to the plate when I mentioned about the 15th with
 District 1 during an event in Fairground. This is now an opportunity for the Police Department to build a relationship with the peoples in Fairground, but not just showing any kind of movie, but showing a movie talking about Martin Luther King. The library stepped and went out their way and brought several new... Thank you, Mr. Brantley. I'll talk about it next week. Thank you.
 Moving on underneath new committee reports alderman Shirely for coats and regulations committee. Thank you your honor First item the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to chapter 28 article 3 Of the city of Rockford sort of ordinance is to reflect sewers and sewage disposal service That is being controlled by the Rock River water reclamation district and not the city of Rockford number two Your honor and requesting that be laid over and
 Number three is the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of special use permit for motor vehicle repair of autos, light trucks and vintage vehicle restorations and accessory parking in a C3 zoning district and an R2 zoning district at 325 Walnut Street. Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval of the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store.
 at 3816 Auburn Street and 3814 Auburn Street. Number five was laid over at committee, your honor, I believe. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's denial of the sale of Packers Liquor in conjunction with the convenience store and sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store at 513 Toner Avenue.
 Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval of the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and brewery. And for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the restaurant and brewery. And for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an outdoor seating area at 6551 East Riverside Boulevard as amended by the committee.
 Number eight, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the hotel, banquet hall, video gaming, and lounge at 3909 11th Street. The ninth, the committee recommends approval of final plat of Jefferson Street Plaza subdivision. Place those items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So there's a motion to lay over item two. Is there a second? Sorry, I'm cut. So two automatic layover, correct?
 So item two is laid over, and item five's already been laid over at committee. Is there a discussion on the items before us? Okay, no discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Thunberg. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No on item six. Irvins. Alderman Hoffman. Alderman Rose. Beach. Anones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items one.
 10 ayes, 0. 10 to 0. Item 3, 10 ayes. Item 4, 8 ayes, 2 noes. Item 6, 9 ayes, 1 noe. Item 7, 10 ayes. Item 8, 8 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 9, 10 ayes. Thank you. All items pass.
 Moving to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you. First is the committee recommends the approval of vouchers tonight in the amount of $8,432,194.55 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee held earlier this evening. Number two, the committee recommends the approval of the 2018 budget discussion package one. I place both these items up for passage. Thank you. Alderman Frost, is there a discussion?
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toomer. Aye. Frost. Irving. Aye. Irving. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Ten. Aye. Scott.
 Thank you. So those items pass. Moving on under officers' reports, I just want to make everyone aware, I believe you should have received an email as opposed to a paper copy of this. Practicing our...
 electronic use. I just want to make you aware, though, that Rockford Ministers Fellowship every year does a really wonderful job celebrating Martin Luther King's legacy in life. And they have three different celebrations this year. One on January 12th, which is at Court Street, United Methodist, which is 215 North Court Street at noon.
 The second is January 14th, which is a religious celebration at St. Paul, which is located and that's at 7 p.m. and that's located at 1001 Bishop Washington Avenue. And then January 15th, 2018 at 10 a.m., which is a community celebration which will be held this year at Nordloff Center right downtown at 118 North Main Street.
 I'll make sure that we get this out again so that you'll have all this information. But I think those who have attended one or many of these celebrations will say it's a really nice community celebration and really does a wonderful job to honor the legacy of Martin Luther King. Other officers' reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. First of all, Happy New Year to everyone here as well as within our city.
 And secondly, I want to thank the fire department. Two fires over the week, at the beginning of this week, that was in my ward. I know it was not easy being out there in the cold, freezing temperature, and trying to battle those fires, and I know that
 with the fires on the street, a number of cars being parked and still attempting to address the fire situation. And you guys did a really great job. When I seen the fire and called on Foster, a number of people had already called, and the 911 operator informed me of that, that you guys were already there and working on it. So very quick response to that fire. So thank you.
 for all that you guys do. Thank you very much. Thank you, Alderman McKinney. And Alderman Quinonez. Yeah, I want to, the people at Valhocan Plaza, I want to thank the mayor for showing up and giving a good response and answering all the questions they had. They wanted to make sure that I relayed that to you. They asked a lot of questions. In the 11th Ward, Mark Stockman and Mitch Leatherby, they did a good job in my 11th Ward.
 I got a lot of calls on how they cleaned the snow recently. So I want to give them credit for doing a good job at 11th Ward. Thank you. Alderman Nervins. I know it's way ahead of schedule, but Memorial Day I am looking forward to putting on a kickball party.
 in the sixth ward. I've mentioned this before. Unfortunately, I don't have my flyers yet. I was gonna distribute them today, but I am challenging all of the other aldermen to come up with a team to bring to the sixth ward kickball party, actually it's gonna be called the Six Block Kickball Party. Pretty soon I'll be holding
 meetings at the Kenrock Community Center. And I'm looking for sponsorships, I'm looking for volunteers. If you guys have people in your wards that love to get involved, love to get their hands dirty, then let's do it. It's gonna be tons of fun, not only kickball. We got some dodgeball, some tug-of-war,
 I'm hoping to get some inflatables and hopefully some food free of charge to the community. And I'm hoping that I can have all you guys' support and help in making this happen. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, and then I'll go right back. Thank you for allowing me a second time, Mr. Mayor. I, too, want to thank Director Sackman for the work with the snow. Thank you.
 I know that when the first day of the snowfall, it came at a time when people were traveling, so it got kind of slushy and wasn't easy even for the guys to be out there working with it. I did see...
 the snow plows out and the salt trucks out. However, because of the traffic and the way the snow was falling, that first day got kind of messy, but I think you guys did an excellent job after that particular day and got everything cleaned up
 Pretty much dried up and I was impressed when I went out the next day to see that everything had been cleaned up And secondly, mr. Mayor, I know that Mr. Shelby had made the comment that the city has not been spending money on streets on the west side I certainly would like to say that We have been spending money on streets on the west side every year. We we've gotten a
 a fairly decent amount of money, as every ward here has received. And that money has been spent on the west side, certainly in the 13th Ward. And sometimes Public Works has bent over a little more than that dollar amount. So I do want to correct Mr. Shelby that we are addressing the streets on the west side. Thank you.
 Thank you. It's convenient that he leaves before we talk about the capital improvement plan. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. There was, and I want to apologize for the, there's a letter to the editor in today's newspaper, and I clipped it out. I was going to bring it so I could thank the gentleman. He lives, I believe, in Alderman Beach's ward somewhere near Fairview.
 and he mentioned that the wind had blown a lot of paper and refuse and leaves and things into the fence. So he raked them up and put them in the disposable lawn bags, but there's no more pickup. So he made a call and loaded, I think he said, eight bags into his own vehicle and took them out, and I'm not sure where he took them. But long story short,
 they charged him $50 to dump those bags. And it sounded like we're kind of rude to him and said something to the effect, I don't know if they said we have nothing to do with the city of Rockford. I would love if we could follow up and find out, I'll give him the $50 back because I love the heart that he had to clean it up, number one. But what do people do?
 if they pick up refuse leaves that are in the gutters or something that were left over or that blow between now and and when we start the spring summer pickup again where is the dump site and
 you know, he said next time I'll just put it in plastic bags and dump it in the landfill. You know, and he was trying to do the opposite to make sure that he was being good environmentally. So if we could find out the response to that and figure out where it goes, what do people do in the wintertime if you have? Certainly, we can look into that and get back to you and see if we can also follow up with the gentleman who wrote the letter. Thank you. Oh, and then the other thing,
 I wanted to ask if Public Works could get something posted on the website. With the deep freeze that we're in, I've had several people call me over the holiday and say, what is it you're supposed to do to keep your water from freezing? You know, those of us in 100-plus-year-old houses are just laying there terrified most of the time. And I know they say to turn the water on and let it just a small trickle. Will we again give people some credit?
 for their water bill adjustments between now and these deep freezes. I think we did last year because it got so cold. So that was one of... I told her, you have to let your water run. Just moving water doesn't freeze as readily. So they were concerned about the water bill. I should have listened to you about 48 hours ago. My washer... Oh, no. Yeah, it's all frozen. So if I wear this same thing tomorrow, you'll know. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
 We will have staff look into it because I think there was something done. Yeah, if we could just do that again. But also if we could post something. I think we did last year that tells people what to do to save their pipes. There's a lot of people who really don't know. I mean, yeah, thanks. Yeah. Alderman Rose, and then I'll come back to Alderman Irvins. I just want to make a comment.
 In regards to Reverend Shelby's remarks and also Linda's remarks, every ward is allotted a good sum of money. We've seen a lot of development along north and south Maine on the west side. We're seeing projects along west state take root. Okay.
 I met with Mark Stockman a few days ago and looking at our SIP and potentially looking at ways on how we can stretch that as much as possible so we get as much bang for our buck for roads on the west side of town. And I made a New Year's resolution this year and it's not to listen to that kind of stuff.
 anymore. I'm not going to listen to it. And I think we need more people standing up and coming out to city council and talking about some of the good things that we're doing. Some of the things that our city staff are doing. I've been on a lot of boards and commissions and teams in my life and I'd say that this is a world class one and I continue to look forward to that kind of work. So, and I'm not saying that
 pat myself on the back, it's for the people that are in this room that have to deal with sometimes those kind of comments, so that's my New Year's resolution.
 Thank you Alderman Rose. Alderman Irvin, do you have a follow-up? Yes. I got two things. I just want to respond to Alderman Hervey here. When I used to work for Beacon Hill Apartments as maintenance, we wouldn't leave the water running. In some cases we would, but what we would do is make sure that the temperature of the room didn't drop below 55. So if that requires turning up the heat,
 in the basement, putting in some ventilation. I'm not sure, maybe a heater, but maintaining that 55 degrees will keep the pipes from freezing. One other one I found on the Internet, and this might help people. If your kitchen pipes are on the outside wall, which is the case for many of us, as the mayor can appreciate, open the lower cupboards.
 and keep those open. And I'm told that that helps just to keep the warm air flowing around the pipes. If you close the doors, everything inside the cabinet is cold. So open your cabinet doors. Keep doors open for closets that you might normally close. If you have a 120-year-old, uninsulated. But enough about me.
 keep the doors open. It's a little uncomfortable until they get warm, but if you leave them open, you're not going to have the freezing as badly as you normally would. I feel like you guys are all talking to me.
 Other Alderman Irvins. Yeah, my second comment, and I hope it's not offensive. It was a statement earlier in regards to being foolish in God's sight, and I just want to make a statement. You know, the scriptures also say that a fool vents all, but a wise man holds his tongue. That's it. No other officers' reports. We'll move on to unfinished business under finance and personnel requirements.
 Alderman Frost. Thank you. The committee recommends the approval of the 2018 to 2022 capital improvement program. I place the matter up for vote. Alderman Beach. I'll thank you, Your Honor. I have an amendment, if you don't mind, and I move to amend the committee report.
 under unfinished business, the one that was just recommended here by our chairman. For 6C, item 1, as follows, the $200,000 proposed allocation for the conversion of Church Street in the cattle improvement plan shall not be allocated until 2022. Is there a second? There is no second. The motion fails. I can't second it. Second. Second.
 Alderman Irving's seconded it. With that motion on the floor, is there a discussion? Alderman Tunberg. Yeah, and let me make sure I'm up to speed on this. And that is with the Church Street two-way? Mm-hmm. With the, okay. Fortunately, Alderman Beach and I had a very extensive conversation on this, and I see his point on the issues, I would say, as part of the,
 third ward going into Alderman McNeely's ward that I have had conversations with staff
 I've had conversations with the RAVE board, the chairman of the RAVE board specifically, in discussing issues that they may have with events at BMO and the process of getting in and out of the concourses.
 Where we left that was with smaller crowds at the BMO, which many times happen on weekday events such as the Hogs games, that parking does...
 Access to in and out of the concourses don't seem to be a real issue. Their concern a little bit more was the issue during weekend events when the Ice Hogs have bigger crowds, also when you have big concerts, sellouts. I offered that we would look into the possibility of various means of traffic control during those events.
 And he seemed very appreciative of that and open to that idea. We as a city would like to get, and it is part of our, I think our long-term plan is to get Main Street under our control, under municipal control versus state control, and
 With that, Main Street would become a two-way all the way through, allowing easier access to Rockford's amenities by bicycle and pedestrian means of transportation. And part of the situation, I think, that we're looking at, to my understanding, is that the state will not
 turn over Main Street to the city of Rockford until a plan is presented, but that plan is Church Street two-way from Cedar all the way to John. I think personally it would be a... there are some issues Alderman Beach has that are legitimate issues that would need further discussion
 But to have Church Street and right at State Street and all of a sudden go from a two-way to a one-way I think is going then you're gonna have drivers jogging around The various streets to get back into the direction. They wanted to go in the interim time or during that time so I think on a
 For the few times, I would like to think there's more times in the future that BMO will have sold out events. But for Church Street to be interrupted from two-way going to a one-way for a few events a year,
 I think is putting an inconvenience on the day-to-day, everyday activity of our citizens. So I would encourage individuals, especially with our goal to take Main Street under city control, which will allow us to do more things than IDOT. I mean, right now as it stands, IDOT has so many of our streets downtown
 We're strangled in what we can do in many cases. So to do traffic calming measures, et cetera, we can't even think about it for the most part because so many of our streets in our downtown area are under IDOT control. So...
 I appreciate my fellow aldermen, in this case Alderman Beach's, viewpoints on many of the issues and I think some of those warrant further discussion. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and thank you, Alderman Tunberg. I agree with you regarding Alderman Beach's request to keep
 Church Street as it is around the BMO Center. I think that it should, as you stated, not go from one way to two way, that it should be consistent. And I hope that the aldermen would...
 Not support alderman beach tonight, but to maintain the plan that we currently have for church street along there Thank you alderman beach Thank your honor Alderman Toomer and I did have quite a lengthy discussion today. Maybe 90 minutes I won't tell you where he was We did have a conversation. I want to just make a comment or two the subsidy that
 we have been giving to the Metro Center over the years has been in excess of $2 million. And they have worked to streamline what they're doing to where our subsidy is around half a million dollars. And that didn't come just because there was just a few events other than the Ice Hawks. There's many events, and what we're being told by their marketing staff is a number, let's say, north of 40%.
 The people that come to these events come from outside the city of Rockford. And we need to look at the customer service that any venue offers their customers. And if you come into town and you're held up by lines backed up to get into a parking deck,
 and you're coming in from some other place, that's your first impression of this city. We can do all the money we want, spend all the money we down, but it's the first impression, and if your parking wanted to get in and get out, and you have that problem, that leaves the wrong impression. Now, I speak to the same officers that Alderman Thunberg does. I speak to the general manager, I speak to the president of the board, and I must say that what I'm hearing,
 is that they are concerned about that. And when I look at that two-way stretch, frankly, that's just across from the deck. They have like a loading zone in the street, takes up one lane. The other lane would be where cars are stacked in, trying to get in. And you put that to a two-way, and then to think that the answer that we have is we're going to hire policemen, per se, most likely in overtime, to come in direct traffic?
 Well, that is perhaps one way to solve that problem, but I don't think it's the efficient way. So do you think that I think this is going to pass? No, I don't. Because I've talked to many of you, and you think I'm crazy. But I'm going to try anyway because I think it's the right thing to do.
 I think it's the right thing to leave at least that block or two, a one-way street, for the efficiency of that Rave Center, that BMO Center, that really brings a great deal of entertainment to this community and the residents that come in to visit us. So that's my follow-up response, and I'm prepared with another amendment if this doesn't pass.
 One, I think you deserve some of that credit too. You've been on the RAID board and done a tremendous job benefiting this council and the entire community. So thanks for all your work. I too fall on the line of Alderman Thunberg's thought process here. I just think making that block a one-way street where the rest of it is two-way becomes cumbersome to 100% of our local traffic.
 and for those 40% of folks I keep mentioning we've had long talks too about it if South Bend, Indiana can figure out how to get 50,000 people on a two-way street into Notre Dame Stadium I think we'd be able to figure out how to get 6,000 people a couple of nights a year and hopefully more into the BMO
 Other discussion on this? A couple minutes to you. Alderman Irvins? Not really a discussion, maybe a suggestion. If we made all the roads one way coming into Rockford, no one would get out. Thank you. On that note, clerk, will you please call the roll? On the amendment, on Alderman Beach's amendment, please call the roll. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Irby. Irvins. Aye.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely. Five to five. No. Five to... Okay. Alderman Beach, did you have another amendment? What was that vote? Five to six. Five-four? Five to six. Five-six-four. Okay. Yes. Five ayes, six against. Okay. Well, that was good. And I think that...
 Will not bring out any more amendments about this. That's just a waste of time Although maybe it isn't I will bring one more minute Yes, sir To move the committee report that Church Street will not be converted to a two-way street From State Street on the north to cedar on the south. Thank you with that motion Is there a second seeing that there's a second is there a discussion on?
 The motion on the floor, correct me if I'm wrong, Alderman Beach, is to Church Street shall not be converted to a two-way street from State Street on the north to Cedar Street on the south. Right, just that two-block stretch. Very similar to the previous amendment. Somewhat. Somewhat, somewhat. In the same ballpark as the previous amendment. Is there a discussion on this?
 I just feel compelled as a former alderman of that ward and someone who drives that every day multiple times to state that I support the two aldermen of the adjacent, current and adjacent wards. I just don't think making a portion of that street one way with the rest being two way is convenient nor wise to the citizens of Rockford. Alderman Toomberg.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I would like to reiterate your point as well. I would like to mention also with many other cities that are going through transformations of their downtowns, it was pointed to me from an individual that is very active in everything downtown development, et cetera, that a recent study showed that
 One of the first things to do in transforming a downtown the way that we're looking to is to convert, start converting a lot of those one ways that exist in these cities to two ways. So I think that would also help in our processes going forward. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thanks, Your Honor, again for letting me speak twice.
 For just a moment, if you can think about North Main Street. We went to two-way on that up to Park Avenue, right? And then it goes into one-way again. I haven't heard anybody from our traffic department. I've heard no complaints from the citizen that tells me that it's very difficult to go from a single lane across Park Avenue and continue as a one-way.
 It would be no different than if it's a two-way on Church Street, a State Street, and moving ahead into a one-way. So, I mean, I don't see there's much difference than the Main Street from two lanes to one way than State Street ahead south-right.
 one way for those couple blocks. So, you know, Your Honor, I just have to say this. This is probably my last chance to talk about this here. No, we'll have next year. No, that's fine. But, you know, over the last several years...
 Since we talked about converting to one ways We were told that people couldn't find her way around Rockford that we were kept visitors Come in town and they get lost we had all that discussion as I told all of a tuber today It's funny that every single year our Convention Bureau tells us there's not been more people come to Rockford More people visit this garbage for there more people to the Metro more people to Rockford and you know what? I have any complaints I
 Well, people can't find their way. I tell you the truth, Your Honor. Maybe I'm a little not with it electronically, but I travel around the city, around this country, and I put the address in my GPS. And it doesn't take long to get in that new city, and the little girl says, turn right, go two blocks, turn left.
 No, if I go wrong, they say make the first legal unit. I mean, if that's really what it takes. So I don't buy into the fact that our one-way streets is stopping people from coming to Rockford. They just aren't. If there's another reason, okay. But anyway, thank you very much for letting me speak on this topic. I would like Alderman Rose to speak.
 Well, and you might be right, Frank, on that, but I think one of the other things that our roads department and city is looking at is other modes of traffic, especially biking, is a big one. And my hope is that we, as a city, come up with a more holistic look at our traffic.
 biking traffic as the years come on. But one-ways do impede some of that. So, and having it change for a two block change is in some cases inconvenient. And probably in some cases the people that do visit here and make all those stops, they make all those stops because they get lost and they have to make those stops.
 But my hope is that we continue to look at these and better our traffic in our downtown areas especially. Thank you, I'd just add also that Park 2, Maine, there's not a lot of conversation about it because we've already approved it to go to a two-way. So I'm saying until that happens, until that happened, there has been that two-way to one-way. And incidentally,
 That's not a new fine going south of State Street one way people have been driving one way on that for years So that's so that's not that's not new. I mean people aren't gonna be confused I mean, they've been doing that for years. They might be confused two ways, but thank you Thank you clerk. Will you please call the roll on the amendment the second amendment to bird for us Kirby Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach
 A little hesitation. I like it. Known as McNeely, Shirely, four eyes, six nose. Okay. Item fails. Is there other discussion? Alderman Hervey.
 No, was that the end? Are you asking for additional amendments at this juncture? Any amendments, discussion, whatever you have. Yes, I have two amendments, and I do need to say these are on behalf of Alderman Thompson-Kelly. I believe they're on the crib sheet. But I move to amend the committee report under unfinished business, Roman numeral 6C, item 1, to remove the $450,000 allocation for the Rockford Register Star parking lot.
 Thank you. Is there a second to that? There's a second to the motion. There's a motion on the floor. Alderman Timber, did you have a hand up? Thank you, Mayor. This is in the third ward. I've spoken with the city on this, other parties. It is an issue that we're looking at and in my discussions understand that.
 It's owned by the Register Star and under an agreement, we would be, have the power to use that lot for the city and for events, etc. Whether it be city market, whether it be events at the Riverview Ice House. We would make improvements to it. That's the estimated cost.
 And there would be, we would have, you have full rights to use that lot going forward. I would like for this to go through so we can continue the discussion with further details
 concerning the agreement with the Rockford paper on this. And that can be certain things like the first right of refusal,
 issues like that in case they sell it we would be first in line to be able to buy it. Maybe we could have this money credited towards that purchase. If they sell it to someone else maybe we would have the right to recoup, etc. So I've talked with personnel on this and they seem to be also in favor of this for the best interests of our city and downtown. Thank you, Mayor.
 Alderman Hervey. Just, I didn't get to talk to Alderman Thompson-Kelly in detail about this, but I know a couple of her concerns were, in fact, just that. You know, we're spending a half million dollars when we're already crunched and our CIP is weeping to...
 pave over and redevelop a private lot. I understand that the Madison Street corridor is taking off, but if we're talking about additional parking space for Riverview and other areas, you know, why is the city paying the total cost for it? We're also talking about purchasing and developing some other parking lots in that area, and I, for one, would like to see a comprehensive parking plan for that corridor before we spend a half million dollars on the Register Star lot.
 I would even say we could possibly do a lease agreement for a year or two or something to help with some of the stress on city market and some of the other venues that need it for valet parking even. But, and I actually agree with Alderman Thompson-Kelly on this, I think it's very premature.
 to spend that much money on that parking lot when it's not within our ownership, irrespective of rights of first refusal. I'd like to see the comprehensive. And I know we did the corridor study there, but I don't want to start spending money on that until we take a look at the overall big picture. And I don't think we're there yet, and I just think it's a bad policy move. Alderman Rose next.
 Yeah, and I would second that in the scope of things. When we look at our overall budget for our ward plans, I mean, this parking lot equals more than my entire ward plan development. And so that's just stunning. So I think in moving forward to keep that in mind, that this is a private parking lot that –
 It currently is a private parking lot and to put forward that kind of money for a project that could service an entire ward and then some, it seems like we're putting the cart before the horse on this. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg, then Alderman Frost. Thank you, Mayor. My understanding is the city currently has lease agreements with surrounding...
 private entities is that correct uh Mr. Kegnelly defer thank you your honor so there are situations in which um we lease private parking lots and we've improved them in the past under the terms of the lease in this particular situation um you know should it be approved by city council to remain in the the CIP we would
 have more thorough discussions with the Rockford Register Star on the possibility of a long-term lease with the understanding that there would be improvements made identified within the proposed budget. We would then bring it back to City Council for consideration of the full terms of a lease and improvement plan
 for you to make a determination on if it's acceptable or not. Certainly, that would be contingent upon this first step in theory if you think it's worth us pursuing. We have done analysis of the downtown area related to uses, the Downtown Strategic Action Plan, and we identified this lot and general area for potential additional parking
 based on redevelopment efforts that have already taken place and anticipated continued growth in the downtown area. Do you have a follow-up? Thank you, yeah, thank you, Mayor. Thanks for your input, Mr. Cagnoni. Yes, so really my, I think,
 My intention here tonight is to keep that conversation going. Alderman Rose has legitimate points, absolutely. Anytime we're looking at 450,000, we'll throw up a red flag with many of us. So my point is to let this conversation continue, and I think that's what we're trying to do.
 of between the city and the rockford paper if we to my understanding if we uh amend this tonight approve the amendment all conversation on this issue will end uh is that fairly correct i because my intent my intention on i just want to keep the dialogue going correct and if we decide as a council
 down the road that this does not make sense, let's vote on it and shut it down at that time. But my interpretation, and correct me if I'm wrong, is that if we vote to have this amended, this amendment on the floor, we vote it that the conversation will end. Mr. Cagnoni, do you want to comment to Alderman Toomberg's question about the process? My understanding is Alderman Toomberg...
 may be for, may not be for the city taking over this lot, but has concerns that he thinks may be addressed, may not be addressed during the course of continued dialogue with the Rockford Register Star. And would the amendment that Alderman Hervey put forward this evening, taking that money out of the capital improvement plan, would that stop our conversations with the Rockford Register Star?
 I'll start with the last question first. You know, if the item is removed out of the CIP, it's not going to be a priority for staff to continue to pursue the item, because clearly we want to advance the priorities of the council as a whole, and if this isn't a priority, we wouldn't pursue it. Certainly, if you don't want it in the CIP and still want us to pursue the opportunity, we'd be willing to do it, but I would take that your direction is to not, should it be removed.
 as it relates to some of the terms
 of what may take place should we have a, are successful with an agreement with Rockford Register Star, I'd qualify by saying we've only had preliminary conversations at this point in time, and these conversations began approximately a year ago. We felt as we moved forward with the CIP this year, it was important to raise the issue with this council to determine if it's something they wanted to pursue or not. If you do wanna pursue it,
 we would then vet out what the terms of a lease may be and what the improvement plan may be for your final consideration.
 Alderman Frost. I would suggest that the amendment go through and then tomorrow that maybe Alderman Thunberg can call the paper and continue the conversation because there's nothing stopping anyone from having a conversation about why we're not already able to use that particular lot. I'm familiar with the lot north of Market Street, south of Riverview Ice House and I don't know, frankly I've never parked there, but it is close to a variety of venues from the ice skating rink to City Market.
 It's a little bit ironic and startling, I think, to come in and ask for us as a city to make, I don't know what type of improvements need to be made, $450,000 seems to be a lot of improvements to be made to a parking lot that serves their employees as their primary place where they park their cars during the day.
 So, if we're going to continue about a lease of the city using it, which I don't know, I'm not saying I'm even in favor of that, our percentage of time using that lot is rather small. And so, I think there's nothing stopping a conversation tomorrow asking the paperwork.
 can we or why can't we use that lot during events that exist? I mean, when their workers are parked there, for instance, on a Friday night, why can't that lot be used? And I don't know the shape of the lot, but one thing I do know is that we've got a lot of fire stations around the city that have lots that are in much worse shape. So before we're gonna lop off $450,000 to improve someone else's private property,
 I mean, I've got a parking lot in my business. Maybe the city can help me take it as well. It's a little bit odd to ask that in the use of the CIP. I don't think it really goes with the foundation of the CIP. And I really disagree that the city can continue to have a conversation, whether it's a priority or not, depending on who's delivering the message. But a phone call can be made and conversations can take place, whether or not the item is necessarily a critical priority on the CIP.
 So based upon those views, I would ask that I'm in favor of this amendment by Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelley. If somebody's in power, I would actually agree with her for once. Yes, thank you. MS. She's probably falling off her chair, yeah. MR. I would just say I think it's a valid amendment. I would just say in regards to what Mr. Cagnoni was saying as a priority, I think he can deliver the message, but if council says they want to move in a different direction, I think
 We have limited staff. We don't want to have staff spending time on things that council is not in favor of. Alderman Hervey? Just in that same regard, I didn't take a long, strong look at the Madison Street corridor plan. I'm partly jealous of it because I have some other areas that I think are getting pushed into the background in favor of that one.
 You know, I look at Prairie Street, I look at some of the other venues down there, and we do need to look at parking for the area. So if I was going to suggest allocating anything, it would be perhaps some of the, I think you call it engineering and design. We've always allocated about a quarter of a million dollars each year for vetting for future projects.
 to look at the corridor and determine what we are going to do about parking down there, perhaps in conjunction with the Park District and some of the other users. Because I want to see Prairie Street continue to be strong, but we've got to address the parking issue for them. We've now got the indoor market.
 You know, we've got to address the parking issue. So on a comprehensive level, I would like to see us do that.
 And I think we can continue to have those discussions. But I think once you put it in the CIP, the other thing that happens is we're not using this money for some other purpose within the CIP because that's not going to be a priority for staff. So I don't want to see it die. I just don't think it's appropriate for now. And I think that's an accurate reflection of Alderman Thompson-Kelly's position. Understood. Alderman Urbans. I'll keep you short.
 I believe that there's a time and place for everything. I believe this is the right place but the wrong time.
 Alderman Timber and thank you for thank you mayor. Thank you Alderman Hervey, I think that was well said You acknowledged rightfully so that there is a parking issue down there and with the with the brewhouse with other activities with the with the ice house with the Indoor city market there is definitely a parking issue. We need to tackle down there So I again him in
 I just want to make sure that the conversation continues, whether it is in the CIP or whether it's not in the CIP. That's my main concern, is that the conversation continues and that we acknowledge there is a parking issue that needs to be confronted. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on Alderman Hervey's amendment? No.
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll on that amendment? Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Ten ayes. Excellent. Alderman Herbie, you had a second amendment. Yes, I have a second amendment, again on behalf of Alderman Thompson-Kelly, and that would be to move to amend the committee report under unfinished business, Roman Rule 6C, Item 1,
 Oh, I'm sorry. Item 60, item 1, to include a provision in the capital improvement plan that all land acquisition for West State Street be completed by year end 2018. Thank you. Is there a second? If I may expound upon that, Your Honor. West State Street is stalled. It was supposed to be done, the initial discussion was two phases. This goes back...
 12, 13 years, Alderman McNeely, and then it went to three phases. And Alderman Thompson-Kelly is justifiably frustrated, um,
 because it just seems to be stalled and now the state has pushed it back. I don't know whether which explanation is right or wrong, whether it's the city that did not move quickly enough on the land acquisition last year or whether it was the state that did not allocate the money for the land acquisition, but it is stalled and
 It needs to get jump-started. My understanding is we as a city are actually conducting land acquisition, but the state is reimbursing either 80, 75 or 80 percent, if not more, of the Land Act for that portion of it that is for the widening of the road and changes to the roadway itself. I know we were doing some blight reduction at one time for some of it.
 But it's just stalled and it just makes no sense that that project just stopped right in the middle. It mirrors my frustration with South Main Street that it took two extra years to get it done. I don't like the east side, west side thing. I mean, I just don't. I want to get past that myself.
 But, and I don't think it is an east side, west side, but it is frustrating that we seem to be having so much difficulty with these major roadway projects, both of which involve the state. So if we need to do something to help the state, if we need to be a better partner, something's got to move, and especially on West State Street. Thank you.
 So that's her purpose. She wants to put that in to get, make it a priority that we're gonna get that done. She fully understands that all the pieces have to come together, but getting it done. Thank you. Yep. Alderman Rose. Well, just this is more for staff. In an estimate, what would that cost of land acquisition be if we were to put something like this forward for 2018?
 One second. Director Meyer. So it's not necessarily a cost issue. There's a number of steps that have to go to complete the land acquisitions. We did hire a consultant to handle most of the acquisitions. I believe they're based out of St. Louis. I had a meeting with them just before the holiday. Alderman McNeely was also present and also some of our staff.
 To outline for my benefit what the delays have been and from the explanation I received it's been the first step is that the state has to identify the parcels to be taken and then submits plans to the city, the engineering on how much of the parcel, is it a partial taking or a whole taking?
 submit those to the city for approval and there's been a significant delay in getting those, that step taken care of from the state and when they have submitted plans that they consider to be 90% complete, our own staff has said at this point there's no sense, you know, it's a partial taking but you have a bike path going through this man's living
 So, with that back to the state, and there's been a lot of back and forth on several properties. Once we've approved the plans, then the land acquisition will move forward.
 But that requires legal descriptions drawn up and then I believe three different appraisals which take a significant amount of time. And then once that's taken, once we get the go-ahead for the price, then we need to find the owner and come to a consensus as to what the price is going to be. All that's then funded from the state, but we're bogged down in those different procedures. You can have all the money in the world.
 It's not the allocation problem, it's the process problem. Alderman Rose or Powell? So a question of mine is, you know, in just approving, or not approving, but in just taking $450,000 out of the SIP for a parking lot, is there a possibility that we take some of that and put it forth, some of that work that we can get this done?
 because I feel the frustration. I mean, I remember reading about this back in 2011, 2012, and a lot of residents thinking, hey, we're finally gonna have this brand new West State Street and something to look towards to, look forwards to. And I feel like it's gone on for far too long too. And
 You know, we're only going to get this project done if we take it, if we allocate the money for it, and if there's a possibility to do that. So one quick thing, and correct me if I'm wrong, I don't think it's a money issue. I think it's a...
 dealing with the state and the entire process issue. But, Director Tagnoni, did you have a point you wanted to make? Your Honor, I was going to relay the same message. I don't see it as, you know, putting more money
 more money being budget towards the process is going to make it go any quicker. With that said, on a staff perspective, we understand the concerns. We have no objection to the amendment moving forward, but we do want to be transparent that some of those issues are outside our control. Director Meyer engaged in a meeting with Alderman McNeely before the holidays, understanding that it is a priority to make sure we put this on the quickest path
 that we can to pursue with the land acquisition and we're going to do that and we'd be happy to provide regular updates on how we're advancing that forward. But there are some steps that become obstacles that we also just want to make sure the council's aware of. I'll get to you in one second, Alderman Hervey. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and I certainly appreciate Alderman Thompson-Kelley's concern
 I have, as city attorney stated, I have met with city staff as well as the state Illinois Department of Transportation regarding West State Street.
 could be more concerned about getting this project done than myself. This is a project that started with Senator Durbin. It's probably been over 15 years ago.
 that at that time the money was allocated for this project. This project has changed in those years, over those years as well. The acquisition of the properties has nothing to do with it being on West State Street or on the west side of the city.
 My understanding is that there was some misunderstanding between the state of Illinois and the city of Rockford and the mapping that they had seen. The original plans,
 for West State Street would have removed a number of properties that have not been moved in, and those properties in that first phase are still standing. It's not expected that the state is going back to move them. The sidewalk part of it, the walking path part of it has been set, and it appears to be functioning. Design-wise, it looks nice.
 The next phase that they're going through there will have to be some acquisitions of properties that the state had not originally Put in their plans not originally But second somewhere along there was a second or third plan whatever the original plan was to take those properties but after then I
 it was redesigned and those properties were not to come out. However, it has been determined that those properties, a number of those properties have to be removed. So I don't think it's necessary for Alderman Thompson-Kelley amendment to go forward. I believe that the city and the state are moving accordingly. It has nothing to do with $450,000 or
 or one dollar, it has everything to do with the state and the city working this out properly so that at the end of the day, we have a Bain thoroughfare that we all can be proud of and that we can all make use of. So as the aldermen,
 of the West State Street project, I would ask that this council not approve this amendment because I don't believe it's necessary. I truly believe that the state and the city are working to get this resolved. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey? In terms of even the consultant, did we even have one all of last year?
 How long has it been since one was even on the project? And I think that's the kind of thing that she's talking about. Okay, let's find an answer for that question. Mr. Meyer? The council approved hiring a consultant in 2016, and I believe that was the same consultant who worked on the first phase of West 8th Street, and also had worked some on North Main Street as well.
 There's several properties and it hasn't been for lack of effort on our consultant side or on the city staff side alderman herby you had a follow-up No, okay with all that discussion. Is there a clerk? Can we take a a roll on the amendment by alderman herby? timber frost herby urbans hoffman rose beach quinones mcmillie shirely six eyes pornos
 Okay, passes. With that, I'm a little afraid to say it's a rather further discussion. Mr. K. Noney.
 So, on the crib sheet, there's one other amendment that was not addressed. Because it came in from multiple aldermen, we didn't duplicate it. But if someone wants to read off the crib sheet, there was a, not that alderman staff is supporting it, but out of transparency purposes, I want to make sure that . Well, Alderman Ripps. I'm sorry. No, go for it.
 There was another amendment on the Spring Creek bike path issue and 60,000 a lot in the SIP. And I am suggesting after many, many conversations with both staff and I Bike Rockford,
 multiple people in biking in Rockford that we move forward with, you know, that portion that's set forth from the $60,000 and one reason I suggest that is that my hope is that as we
 put forth a small portion of money in our overall SIPP for that project to take a look at it, that we take a much bigger approach, a much larger approach on biking throughout the Rockford region. And that include areas of Huffman and West State and Auburn and some of those places that, you know, sometimes people say these areas get ignored, whether they do or not.
 that they be a part of that. And, you know, people all over the city bike and they might not do it for recreation. In some cases they might do it because they have to get to work. So I would like to pull back that amendment. Okay. And Alderman Hervey, did you want to put forth that amendment?
 that Alderman Thompson-Kelly also had. So I just didn't know if you were going to be. And the amendment would be that the $60,000 proposed allocation for the Spring Creek bike path study shall be, well, let me see. This one was shall be reallocated for city sidewalk repair and replacement to conform to ADA. I believe Alderman Kelly's...
 original request was that it simply be eliminated. Money has to go somewhere. That it would basically, I would say, then go with the reallocation. And I want to piggyback, though, on what Alderman Rose was saying, because Alderman Thompson-Kelly and I talked about this also. There are large areas where people bike for necessity that people
 You know, I remember some years ago Alderman Frost was talking about this. We have gaps where we had started with bike paths, especially in the downtown area, extending from South Main. And then it goes nowhere. I would love to see us fill in those gaps and go back and look at that rails to trails, and it was a part of that whole greenway and bike path beltway process.
 Instead of all of a sudden now Spring Creek just came up and it's all in the forefront and it's a priority. I'm not against that.
 looking at Spring Creek at some point, but I think prioritizing it that way is the wrong thing to do instead of closing some of those loops and going back and looking at that plan and saying where should we be allocating right now. Spring Creek might rise to the top because it's adjacent to Senecipe, but there's some other areas that...
 Need to be reconsidered to especially in areas where people are biking not for recreation, but this alderman row said out of necessity. And that's especially true in some of our older brownfield center city areas where it's not a choice. Thank you. Thank you. And I would just add, I think if you go back and look at.
 the bike plans for the last 30 years. Spring Creek has been in there and it actually does what you're wanting. It fills a gap and I think Alderman Frost had his hand up. Is the motion gone through? Do we run on the motion? I didn't do a second. Oh, I'm sorry. Is there a second on the motion?
 to take out the $60,000 for a bike path and put it towards sidewalks? Sidewalk repair and replacement for ADA. Is there a second on that motion? Okay, there's a second. Alderman Frost, discussion? Speaking on this issue, Alderman Hervey's right. I did speak here probably at least three years ago on us having kind of a hodgepodge plan, and I talked to Alderman Roosevelt about this earlier tonight, of having a path that really, I said, you know, that goes nowhere. It isn't connecting anything, and I think
 Two things about, well, just historically for the newer aldermen, the Spring Creek issue was brought up with the water reclamation issue. It kind of brought the light again because the city's going to have to spend some money on the road. And the first thing we looked at was we did, I believe, a survey on the matter to see. We spent some money already, a nominal amount of money, on the survey issue of whether it would fit on the right-of-way. It won't. It's the last thing we looked at.
 landowners, including the folks that live, I think, on both sides of the roads have come forward and said, yes, we would be willing to work with the city or donate to the city some of our land to have something there.
 The connectivity is so important of this stretch of road because it does bridge the gap from the east to west side. It allows folks that are riding from down on our bike path on the east side of the river or downtown from Sports Corps 1 on the west side of the river to actually utilize a legitimate bike path, and then it would allow them to continue east.
 to Springbrook Road to get out to the Perryville Path and then from Perryville Path they could go north or south and come back on Charles or go north into Rock Cut and then from Rock Cut they can make the loop around the Harlem High School back across the river by the Forest Preserve, the Sports Corps One, back downtown, so it really completes
 Right now, the area that's missing is one piece, and it's Spring Creek Road. That would allow those to be connected. So the connectivity issue is really one of the reasons why I think I'm so in favor of this issue. The second issue that's been discussed is folks bike out of necessity.
 I went to Holy Family Church on Sunday morning. I was at Spring Creek in Alpine. It was frigid cold out and an individual was riding his bike the wrong way on Spring Creek Road, out of necessity, I'm sure, heading west.
 And those are serious issues that cause traffic, that put the bike riders at risk, that put motorists at risk. I mean, he was halfway in the lane, and he was clearly out of necessity. And we've talked a lot about, you talk about, you know, some of these other areas of towns, at least other areas of towns, there sometimes are sidewalks that exist. There are sometimes roads that are 30-mile-an-hour roads that exist that are two-lane roads.
 Well, ladies and gentlemen, I drive Spring Creek Road to get here every time I come here. It's not a 30 mile an hour road. I mean, it's an expressway running through the middle of our city on the north side. So, and it does, and right now it lacks everything. So I see kids walking to Eisenhower. I see kids walking sometimes to Guilford High School and they're walking the road or walking the grass. I'm not saying it's gonna work because we don't know the cost of this project. If the cost comes back and it's an astronomical cost,
 Maybe we just can't do it out of a financial need. But, you know, one thing that maybe would come out of it is, I mean, if we don't get a bike path, if it costs too much, maybe we're able to get a sidewalk. So at least a bicyclist, out of necessity, could utilize a smaller sidewalk to ride along Spring Creek Road instead of being out in the lane of traffic putting –
 himself and others in harm's way. So I think it really does meet both criteria. It really improves the connectivity of our whole city and it actually provides a service for not just the recreational or avid bicyclists like Alderman Toomberg
 claims to be, but it allows people out of necessity, it allows them to actually have a chance to get off the road, which is a benefit obviously for the rider or for a pedestrian or for the motorist. So for that reason, I would ask that you vote no and let us go forward with the feasibility. This is just for feasibility. It's not a commitment to the cost of the bike path, we don't know yet. It's just on the feasibility of going forward is can it be done or not? Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Ertons.
 As far as feasibility, I don't even know if that's a word, but is it? Yes, okay, good. Vocabulary. Anyway, I think it's feasible to put sidewalks where there's no sidewalks. And, you know, in my very own home, managing my own budget, you know, there's needs and then there's wants. I don't think it's a need at this moment. There's people that...
 I said, don't have sidewalks, don't have curbs. We have people coming into the chambers talking about let's put more money back into the west side. I could see that happening with the $60,000 and that would make people happy. Yeah, that's pretty much it. Thank you. Alderman Tumbrich. Thank you, Mayor. I want to express my
 appreciation to Alderman Rose on reconsidering on this. I think, yeah, $60,000 is a lot of money to everyone. But this is an issue that seems to never die. And in order to finally put this to rest, I think is necessary. Otherwise, it's going to be one of those Rockford
 Rockfordisms of what if, or should it have been, or could it have been. Now we're able to find out what the cost would be, if it's even feasible to do, if it's possible, even if it's possible to do, we'll find out the answer
 finally, so we can finally put it to rest either way. I would also stress the connectivity is just insurmountable on what Alderman Hervey and Alderman Frost pointed out, but I'd like to also add for the necessity of individuals biking also for those that just would like to bike is the access to Rock Valley College.
 The access to Rock Valley College by bike, unless you're living right around there, is about zero. So I think this would give, for those living in other areas of the city, a direct access to one of our educational institutions that I think has, to say the very least, stepped up to the plate to address our community needs going forth.
 So thank you. Mayor? Thank you. Further discussion? Alderman Irvins. You know, I think that's a real valid point, having a bike path that leads to the school. And it reminds me of my very own ward, Jefferson High School, and just mapping it out. Jefferson High School in every direction does not have a sidewalk or a bike path. And we have students walking in the mud
 Walking in the mud, walking in the street, if the snow was there, you know, there's reports of people getting hit. This is a safety issue. You know, I think without even studying it, putting that $60,000 towards a study towards it, I think it's feasible to put some type of path there. I mean, I'm not trying to allocate this money in my war, but there are more important places to put this money where it could be used. Thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Tumberg. Unfortunately, Alderman Beck is not here, but I'd like to remind him that that is in his ward, by the way. I'm seeing no further discussion. I will not see any further discussion on this. Clerk, could you please call the roll on the amendment to take out the $60,000 for the bike path along feasibility study for the bike path along Spring Creek? Tumberg. No. No.
 Ross No Herbie Urbans Hoffman Rose No Beach Kenonaz McNeely Shirely 3 ayes, 7 noes Okay, so that amendment fails. With no further cribbed amendments, is there any other amendments from the floor?
 Well, that is true. No, I actually told Ottoman Khaganoni, and I'll make this very short, one of the things
 Almost had me voting no for the CIP is that for the past five years or more? I have said that I want to see for all of the arterials and the collectors and the secondary Collectors and a secondary collector is a street that is not an arterial Collector and you have most of them in some of the older parts of the city, but they're not Ward streets Marcassano Drive is a good example some are in deplorable shape and
 And they're nowhere on the radar. I don't care if it is a 50-year plan, because that's the response I got. Vanita, if we did what you're asking, it would take 50 years to do every street. I don't care. They're not on the radar. Morgan Street was supposed to be done in three phases. The last phase has been sitting there for five years, and it's going nowhere as the street further deteriorates. We went from a five-year CIP to what I consider a two-year with placeholders.
 All I want to see is the arterials, collectors, and secondary collectors on a plan that says, based on the pavement condition and everything else, here's where these streets would actually fall. In the absence of having that, they fall nowhere. And that's not an acceptable answer. Thank you. Good point.
 Seeing no further amendments, before we make this vote, I do want to thank Director Stockman. I want to thank Tim Hinkins for the work that he put in, Christina Peacock, Kyle Saunders, and Jeremy Carter for their tremendous amount of work and time that they gave all of us around the horseshoe in this plan put forth. So thank you, and also thank you for being here at 9 o'clock. I was going to say, we should apologize, too.
 With that, clerk, will you please call the roll on the 2018 to 2022 capital improvement plan? Toomer, Bross, Herbie, Irvins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirelli. Nine ayes, one no.
 Excellent that passage moving on appointments laid over that is still laid over until after January 3rd moving under motions and resolutions I believe item B is being held out about 8b one please. Thank you underneath finance and personnel alderman frost number one is a non-competitive bid
 For the data center core switch replacement to Sentinel Technologies of Downers Grove, Illinois, for a total cost of $113,000. The funding source is the information technology operating budget. Number two is the COPS hiring grant approval. The grant provides funding for five additional officers for three to three years.
 With the city sharing approximately 50% of the expenses, the term of the grant is the same three years, and the city is obligated to fund the five officers for a period of one year following the end of the federal funding period. The net cost to the city would be $280,000 for 2018. And lastly, Your Honor, is the Long-Term Financial Plan Grant Agreement with the National Resource Network for Development of Long-Term Financial Plan, and I place all three of those items up for passage.
 Thank you. We have three items up for passage. Is there a discussion on the three items up for passage? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Timber, Frost, Hervey, Irvins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirelli. Ten ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Moving on to new business, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Number nine, B.E.
 1, 2, and 3, Your Honor, are laid over this evening. Number 4, an ordinance approving an amendment to Chapter 28, Article 3 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, amendment to reflect sewers and sewage disposal services being controlled by Rock River Water Reclamation District and not the City of Rockford.
 Number five is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a motor vehicle repair of autos, light trucks, and vintage vehicle restorations and accessory parking at 325 Walnut Street. The sixth is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store at 3814 and 3816 Auburn Street. Number seven is laid over, Your Honor.
 Number eight is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and brewery and for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the restaurant brewery and for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with outdoor seating as 6551 East Riverside Boulevard as amended at the committee level.
 Number nine is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the hotel, banquet hall, video gaming, and a lounge at 3909 11th Street. Your Honor, place those ordinances up for passage. Thank you. So, Alderman Chiarelli, just so I have this confirmed, we have items 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9 before us. That's correct, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there discussions on items 4, 5, 6, or 8 or not? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toonberg. Toonberg.
 No votes. Frost. Hervey. No votes. I don't agree, major. Urbans. Hoffman. Rose. No votes. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items four, five, 10 ayes. Item number six, four ayes, six nos. Item eight, 10 ayes. Item nine, nine ayes, one no. All items but six pass. Excellent. With that being said,
 Thank you. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Yeah. All those opposed? Excellent. Have a wonderful night.