How do we get everyone in the world to do the impossible? Thank you. Our next speaker tonight is John Branson. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the women, all the women, and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. Proverbs 29, verse 25 says, Fear of peoples can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form that can make you afraid to leave your home. Now we are in the new year, and already on the first day of the new year, we have
 We have our first murder of African American youth. We talk about how the police around the country are killing our youth. However, we do not talk much about the black on black crimes and the domestic violence. I have found myself in the middle of many domestic violence and at-risk youth. We have babies raising babies. On top of that, we have too many of our young African American sisters
 that feel that they should take care of their child, their children, and also some of these dysfunctional African American males out of work, uneducated, felons, gang bangers, dope building brothers with their pants hanging off their butt.
 We have lots of our young mothers that want our help. However, when you do try to help some of them, they still go back to the same old domestic violence relationship. We have too many of our young mothers that are still in relationship with violent young men that are not working a job and that some of them
 Some of them, they have been banned from Rockford housing projects. Nevertheless, the females keep letting some of them come right back into their home. We are losing too many of our young youth to gangs, drugs, violence, and the prison system. Just this past month, December, the week before Christmas in Rockford, four people, including two young boys, were killed in a shooting in their apartment.
 I was at the funeral. This was the first time in my 60 years of living to see the mother and her two sons in the same casting with her. So, some of our so-called men feel that the only way that they can show that they are a man is by hitting on a woman. That is dead wrong. Some of our sisters are so angry that they feel that they can say and do anything to a man because they know they can call him a lot.
 and have them locked up. By the way, the law going to believe her before they believe him. Oh, I can teach a class on this subject. I know that I only got three minutes, so I'm going to go here with the subject. We need to talk about domestic violence. We need to take positive steps to lower the number of domestic violence that is committed by both male and female. This is why I have to talk about our history.
 I'm around so many of our young people, and I listen to what they have to say. Most of them do not care about what happened in the past with Dr. King, Malcolm X, or whatever. A black woman can get a job before a black man, or think it's okay to use the N-word. I feel what Brother Al Gray has said.
 2015, is the black church still relevant? If so, why? If why, why not? I think not. Why are the social reform programs in the church? Why are the social justice programs in the church? We have not been able to move forward since the killing of our former leaders such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, President John F. Kennedy, and I can go on and on. By the way, three months before Dr. King was killed, they was working on the Poor
 I just want to finish by saying I was at the visual Saturday and we had almost 200 people that was at the visual with that 15 year old that got killed and she had no business being out at 2 o'clock in the morning. It hurts me because she's one of the youth that I was working with. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Toby Mullen. At the last hour of the last day of the year, the deal was finally signed.
 To the bad guys, prostitutes, and hooligans, start packing your bags and get out of my neighborhood, for your presence will no longer be tolerated. The foot dragging is over. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. To our speakers, the same thing. Petitions and communications.
 thank you your honor I have two items tonight the first is a memorandum from Todd kick no knee director of community and economic development regarding the choice neighborhood implementation grant application
 The second is a memorandum from Wayne Dust, our planning administrator regarding the U.S. EPA revolving loan program. This is for asbestos removal at the Rockford Watch Factory additions. Both of those items will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you, Madam Speaker. Mr. Elliott. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, zoning and land administrator, regarding the final plan of IFF subdivision.
 That would be referred to the codes and regulations committee. We have the Rockford traffic agenda for the meeting to be held on January 14, 2015. That's also referred to the code and regulations committee. Thank you, Commander. Is there anything further petitions and communications?
 Alderman Durkee submitted a memorandum from Jovina Donahue regarding a request from Servicom LLC 175 Executive Parkway for Community Development Block Grant Funds, CDBG, to assist with job training of 400 new full-time equivalent jobs referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Alderman Durkee also submitted a memorandum from Todd Kignoni regarding a request for Mary's Market proposed development agreement for 4343 East State Street, 43XX East State Street, 4432 East State Street and 44XX East State Street and this is referred to Planning and Development. Thank you, may I just be referred for the petitions and communications, proclamations?
 Good evening. I have one proclamation this evening. This is regarding George Washington Carver Day. I invite Booker T. Woodard to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Is Mr. Woodard here? Well, I will read it in his absence, and he will... Oh, McNeely, you're not here for this, are you? Okay, sorry. Well, I'll read it, and we'll make sure he gets a copy of it.
 Born into slavery, George Washington Carver became a distinguished scientist and agriculturalist, a humanitarian and guiding light for illuminating racial understanding. Whereas no stranger to well-deserved honors and accolades, George Washington Carver was appointed director of the Agricultural Experiment Station at Tuskegee University, authorized by the Alabama Legislature of 1896.
 whereas George Washington Carver was the recipient of the Roosevelt Medal for Outstanding Contributions to Southern Agriculture and was accepted as an honorary member of the American Inventors Society, whereas George Washington Carver died January 5, 1943.
 Committing his life to helping and teaching all mankind regardless of color race or creed now therefore I Lawrence J Morrissey is mayor of the city of Rockford, New Haven I proclaim January 5th 2015 to be George Washington Carver Day And we urge citizens to remember and appreciate the remarkable accomplishments Achieved by George Washington Carver. We'll make sure that the intended recipient. Mr. Woodard receives his proclamation and helping us support this important day. Reports committees Alderman Hervey. Your honor
 I have two items tonight I would say to my own fellow council members that item number three is going to be laid over it will be on our first committee meeting night for next week and this is the CIP plan the draft CIP plan for 2015 to 2019 so I hope everyone will be at those meeting that meeting next week so that they can see the CIP it's it's truly
 a good document. And also, we did receive the links to it this week, and it is an extremely interactive document. So if you can download the electronic
 format, there are links that you can click on in the document that will take you to other sections. They really did a bang-up job. This is not our father's CIP, so it's a good document to look at. And I would encourage everyone to take a look at that for next week. We do hope to pass it by the end of the month in order for the department to be able to get the bids out and get the best bids early. So just a little plug for the CIP.
 Item number four is a finance and personnel committee report recommending that the city council adopt an ordinance repealing the sunset clause for the taxes on food, beverages, alcoholic liquors and hotel rooms to support the redevelopment fund of the city of Rockford with the legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinance. That item will lay over.
 And item number five is committee report recommending approval of total vouchers for the week of January 5th, 2014, the amount of $5,011,827.59, and I would place the vouchers up for passage. Thank you very much. The vouchers and the amount of $5,011,827.59 are up for passage. Is there a discussion? If not, clerk, please call the roll. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chair.
 Gatches McNamara Kirby Hill Odo Newberg Beach Elliott McNeely Shirley Tonight's round Thank you for the reports of committees Thank you Robert
 I have several committee reports. I have a committee report sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board, thereby recommending that the City Council deny the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the grocery store in the name of Pedro Silva doing business as Guanajuatro Rockford Court at 519 Marcassano
 I have a committee report sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board thereby recommending that the city council approved the sell of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant in the name of Tina Quintana saying John Obama doing business as sisters Thai Cafe at seventy eight oh one East State Street subject to conditions one through eight and
 I have a committee report sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board thereby recommending the city council approved the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the name of max convenient stores LLC doing business as circle K 1437 at 2225 West Riverside Boulevard subject to conditions one of seven
 the committee report sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board thereby recommending the city council approved the sale of tobacco products conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the name of max convenience store LLC doing business as circle K fourteen twenty five at thirty eight nineteen Broadway subject to conditions one through seven
 I have a committee report sustaining the zoning board of appeals thereby recommended the city council approved a special use permit for a 10 foot power extension on the existing 70 foot ATC tower for an overall height of 80 feet at 64 49 East State Street subject to conditions one and two
 I have a committee report sustaining the zoning boards of appeal, thereby recommending the City Council approve a special use permit to allow an electric fence that is not approved material at 401 Harrison Avenue. I have a committee report sustaining the zoning board of appeals, thereby recommending the City Council approve a special use permit to allow an electric fence that is not approved material at 5456 Sandy Hollow Road.
 I have a committee report sustaining the zoning board of appeals, thereby recommending the city council approve a special use permit to allow an electric fence that is not approved material at 208 Quaker Road. I have a committee report sustaining the zoning board of appeals, thereby recommending that the city council approve the variation to reduce the parking drive aisle width from 24 feet to 22 feet at 210 North Main Street, except in conditions one and two.
 And all those items will lay over, Your Honor. Thank you, Mayor. We'll lay over to the other person, please. Mr. Lee, the officer's reports. A few items this evening to report on. Number one, I just want to join in, again, having to share our sympathies for the family and friends of another area child who died as a result of senseless killing. Jasneek Fort was killed this past weekend.
 just 15 years old, making it three children of Rockford School District 205 that lost their lives over this last holiday season. A tremendous tragedy for our community. There are no words that can really give comfort to families and friends suffering through this time. The only thing I think we can do as a city organization in our capacity is to try to bring justice, again, to the perpetrators of this type of harm and senseless killing.
 And then to be able to say that we will continue to do all that we can do as an organization, partnering with citizens throughout our community, partnering with other law enforcement agencies to make sure that we create the safest community that we can.
 I continue to pledge my efforts, and I know our council does, on behalf of our efforts to create peace and safety in our community and look forward to our work this year. We've had some success in 2014. We know we have a compelling need to bring more success in 2015. And our efforts won't stop until the day comes when we can see the end of these types of acts of violence.
 A few points about weather concerns. We've provided additional information out to the community about warming centers. If there's any questions about those centers, George Davis from our Human Services Department, my office, Julia Valdez helping on the communication side will continue to try to get that information
 Tonight's meeting is not being shown live by Comcast. They are recording it. Unfortunately, there were some technical difficulties. So I apologize for our council and community members that can't see this live. But it will be recorded and it will be rebroadcast. So that's hopefully something that will get worked out before next meeting. And speaking of the next meeting, I think Alderman Her, you already alluded to it, but next, this is the last meeting this year under our old structure.
 of doing our committee meetings and our council meetings in the same night. Next week will be the first evening on the 12th where we will be dedicated to exclusively managing our committee agendas. I look forward to working through that, and since it will be our first time, if there's a few bumps in the road along the way, I ask that our community bear with us as we work through those issues. But I appreciate all of the efforts by our community
 Council members to move forward with this new approach and we will give it a go next week. There's a couple suggestions that came. I know I had an email from Alderman Beach and some conversations with staff about how we might make it as supportive as possible to having a good dialogue like we've had at the committees in the past. One of the suggestions that staff and some of the council members made is we may set up
 so that if we have community members or staff members that are making a presentation, if there's not enough room at our respective spots where staff's already assigned and there's other staff that are coming in, we'll probably set up a table like we've done in the past for CBA meetings so that staff can present. We've only got the one microphone right now. We can look at getting additional ones in addition to the microphones around the horn and my microphone up here so that our staff can be recorded. From a practical standpoint, from a council perspective,
 From a participation standpoint, we're probably going to be stuck with the layout and the structure that we currently have. I know we've all looked at over the past year, year and a half or so, some options for realigning and setting up our council room a little differently so we can be more collaborative and make the space more flexible. I'll be happy to work with council members and take a look at that as we move into 2015.
 And again, Happy New Year. We look forward to a strong and positive 2015. Further officers' reports? Oh, you know, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and Happy New Year to you and everyone else here throughout the city. My heart goes out to the family of Jazzy, a life, a young life taken. And as recorded in the newspaper, she wanted one day to become an attorney.
 and that dream dies because of selfish, inconsiderate individuals in the community that choose to make use of guns that don't belong in any community. My heart also goes out to the family of the young lady in Belvedere, again another senseless
 Just to take life, no value, no value on life whatsoever. It truly hurts my heart to see so many deaths in such a short period of time. So I pray, and I would invite all to pray to whatever God or whoever, but certainly to become circumspect and think about...
 These families may not have touched you, but certainly for everyone to think and try to be more understanding and more considerate. Thank you. There's an article in today's paper that I wanted to alert a number of people to. Mary Constance Tucker, who we all knew as Connie Tucker, passed away on November 12th.
 Connie Tucker spent her entire career teaching in Westside schools. I happen to know her because she spent a number of years at Washington, which is almost in my front yard, and I kind of had a special connection. And I met her because of her involvement in the schools back when I worked in People Who Care. She is one of the first people I ran into when
 who I can tell you that regardless of a child's skin color, economic status, or anything else, she promoted and had the highest expectations of all of her children. I never witnessed her treat a family or a parent in a disrespectful manner, and she often put up with disrespectful parents in the most gracious way.
 Connie Tucker was a longtime member of the Swift board and a supporter of Southwest Rockford, even though that is not where she lived. She devoted her time, her energy, her money. She was just truly a wonderful, gracious person, and she will be greatly missed.
 There will be a celebration of her life at the University Club, which is at 945 North Main. And it's being hosted by Pamela and Tom Laughlin and the families of Nate, Nick, and Noah Meyer, who are Tom Meyer's children. As I said, she just touched so many people in many different ways. The event is going to be, looking for the date here.
 I'm sorry, it's from 2 to 5 p.m. this coming Sunday at the University Club. So I'm hoping a number of people can attend that. And just remember Connie as the absolutely great woman that she was. I believe there is a fund that will be set up somewhere. I don't see it right offhand here in the room.
 item here. But I can also say I don't have all the organizations she was a part of. SWIFT is just in the fifth ward and close to my heart. But she was a supporter of the Rockford Symphony Orchestra and numerous other places and she will be greatly missed. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for allowing me to speak. I did not see that article. I certainly agree with Alderman Hervey. Ms. Connie Tucker was a counselor at Auburn High when I was there, and she was one of the beloved counselors at the school. And when I ran for alderman, I went to some event, and there was a woman who was a counselor
 Ms. Tucker and Ms. Lane were at the event, and both of them, I barely walked through the room before they came running toward me to hug me and thank me, it had been years since I had seen either one. And I have fond memories of both of them. And I'm so sorry to hear that Ms. Tucker has passed. Thank you for allowing me to speak of you. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Over the last several months,
 I've been able to be in part of discussions with your staff Jim Ryan people from the Park District and others trying to make something happen up there that Alpine Hills and we're so exciting this past week to go up there and see families sliding down tubing down and taking that magic carpet ride all the way back up and
 Some of it was on natural snow, some of it was artificial, and quite an exciting thing. And I know that more and more of the people of Rockford are going to join, but it's kind of neat to see something that's kind of a dream all of a sudden happen right in the center city. And also, the second item, Your Honor, is that the National Parking Area is going to
 Being that we just passed this first snow event, I'd like to compliment Tim Hansen in this new creative way of writing to everybody through Facebook. It was really kind of interesting to get the note out there and then push the button, send to friends, and you know that the next number of hundreds of people on your particular list are getting the same note and just seeing the feedback come back. So I think it's very creative to you, Tim, and I don't know who told you how to do that, but I'm pretty impressed. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 believe me his children are great teachers for him so I'll tell you a good job of helping him out. Further officers reports? Unfinished business. Thank you, Your Honor. Under unfinished business Roman number one committee reports laid over December 29th. Item number one is approval of the agreement with Illinois Public Works mutual aid network for a total of $500 for membership in the network. The funding source is a general fund with the legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Under Roman numeral II, ordinance is laid over December 29, 2014.
 is an ordinance for supplemental appropriations for the city of Rockford and municipal corporation to finance those functions pertaining to its government and affairs including the general fund information technology fund nine one one fund health fund equipment fund property fund water fund parking fund community development block grant fund sanitation fund east river tax increment financing district fund mulford and state increment
 financing tax increment financing district fund state and central tax increment financing district fund global trade part one tax increment financing district fund Springfield corners tax increment financing fund financing district fund the library fund human services fund all of those for the fiscal year 2014.
 Under Roman numeral three, motions and resolutions laid over December 29th, 2014, authorizing, number one is authorizing the mayor to execute an agreement for parking lot T construction, that's for the outdoor market with Stenstrom of Rockford, for the amount of $792,100. The funding source is the River Edge Redevelopment Zone grant.
 and under Roman numeral number four, appointments held out December 29, 2014. Item number one is the reappointment to the Airport Authority Board of Mr. Kenneth Edward Copeland for a term ending May 2017, and those items are all up for passage. Up for passage. Seconded to the Finance and Personal Committee. Number one, item one. And under Roman numeral two, item one.
 for passages in the discussion. I'm sorry, Roman numeral four, I'll stop. I'm sorry, Roman numeral four. I'm sorry for passages in the discussion. All of them have been dealing. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And item number one, under Roman numeral one, the organization that the Public Works Department wants to join, exactly what benefit will that provide the city? Mr. Hansen, I'll take that.
 This is something that came out of our trip out to Maryland for a tornado disaster, anything that's a disaster within the city. If we need resources from other communities, other counties, this list has about 200 different communities, counties that are in it. If we need assistance from them, we can get equipment from them. There's no obligation from them to commit to give us equipment or manpower.
 and for us back, but it's something that if you have a community that's in trouble and you can send equipment to them to help them out, this is what these communities do. Now, Winnebago County's in there, Stevenson County's in there, Aurora's in there. There's some bigger communities that are in there, but it's something that we've watched for the last five or six years, and finally since we've got some bigger cities that are participating, we felt it would be good for us to do that as well.
 Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Thank you, Mayor. Roman number 3, number 1, the 792-100 for the outdoor market, was that put out to bid? Mr. Hanson, you want to take that one? Yes, that was sent out for bid and it came back under Stenstrom. Actually, I think there's two bids that came back.
 and that came I think five hundred and eighty dollars under the estimate there were sure there were there were only two there is only two that were returned yes thank you thank you for the discussion hearing none please call the roll judges McNair Kirby Hill Odo
 really I'm gonna move forward I have one night nice one other me 10 a.m. thank you best best for their business thank you your honor your woman or one committee reports laid over to separate 29 2014 number two approval of the enactment of section 3 dash 68 basket training for liquor license holders the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 number three is approval of vacation for the portion right away adjacent to 2515 Kilburn Avenue subject to the following conditions wanted to the legal director shall prepare
 4. Is an approval of the amendment to section 16-263 authority to remove vehicles to adopt statutory authority to remove vehicles. The legal director shall prepare the necessary ordinance under Roman number 02, number 02
 here legal director are hereby authorized to execute the attached amendments to section 17 dash 41 have the city of Rockford court of ordinances vehicle seizure and impoundment place those items up the passage we think you're a passage under a lot of items to three
 Thank you your honor. I hope I'm not being redundant but with regard to the BASIT training I can't recall in the information whether it's required just for the liquor license holder and they can then retrain individual staff or does each individual who serves alcohol have to go through the training and at whose expense?
 All servers had to go through the training. Servers, okay. And the expenses can be quite low. There's online available at very modest costs. As you may recall, this is fully supported by the Licensed Beverage Association as well. Yes, I just couldn't recall what level of training, like the health food service and things, if it was just the manager, if it was each individual server. Anybody serving alcohol?
 And my understanding is that it can drop the insurance premium some for people too for Dram Shop and things that, so it's not a burden is what I was giving you. Okay. Okay, because that question did come up, so thank you. Your Honor, if I could. Ms. Trace. Yes, please. Thank you.
 Sorry to interrupt, but on Roman numeral one, item number three, it's the indulgence of a layover. The vacation of a right-of-way is subject to a public hearing, which we have not published for or scheduled, and we need to get that done. We prefer to do that before the council has a whole act on the committee report, so we'll take care of that. We'll take that as said. Thank you.
 be laid over tonight put it back on the gender at least market for the agenda when the public hearing is ready so it is good I will thank you know so for passage just to you thank you Mr Mayor item number two under Roman number two
 I'm not sure that I recall what this is I know that item number four under roman numeral one is so they have a brief explanation thank you Mr. Hughes do you want to go through that one yes your honor there's two items moving through the city council this one relates to the disposition of certain funds for impounds of vehicles when people are apprehended for
 and it has to do with how those funds are going to be utilized. So that modification went through codes in order to enable the original intentions of the council related to how those particular funds were going to be utilized. What's the other one just for reference? The other one that's out for committee action, committee report approval next week, it was read in I think earlier today, relates to the empowerment. I'm sorry, this is the order.
 The other item in the committee report that was approved has to do with our
 enacting an issue related to an appellate court case to clarify that the city has adopted state law provisions in order to enable our officers to embound vehicles under a variety of circumstances. But the matter that's up for passage right now relates to utilization of funds only to the particular subset of impoundments related to the offensive solicitation. Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, please call the call. Thank you.
 Hill, O'Neal, Beech, Shirely, Tenney's Mill. Thank you, Madam Chair. Pass further on the meeting. This is a motion to resolution. Thank you, Your Honor. We have a number of items tonight, so bear with me here.
 Item number six is a resolution authorizing the mayor to execute an agreement for the demolition of 2411 West State Street with Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford in the amount of $28,200. The funding source is the 25% sales tax and 75% IDOT funds.
 Item 7 is resolution authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for demolition group 3, batch 10, with Northern Illinois Service of Rockford in the amount of $21,550 and with G&G Construction of Winnebago in the amount of $24,450. The funding source is Construction Services Operating Budget.
 Item 8 is a resolution authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for the Demolition Group 3, Batch 11 with RWTD of McChesney Park in the amount of $26,194 and with G&G Construction of Winnebago in the amount of $32,950 and with NTRT Group of Loves Park in the amount
 The funding source is construction services operating budget. Item 9 is a resolution authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for storage and disposal of impound vehicles with Greater Rockford Auto Auction, GRAA of Rockford, for an estimated $1 million in revenue annually for the general fund. There's no cost to the city.
 Item 10 is adoption of a resolution authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for towing vehicles with Haas Towing of Rockford for an estimated total of $227,830. The funding source is the Police Operating Budget.
 Item 11 is a resolution authorizing the mayor to execute an agreement for a no-bid contract for 2014 citywide vehicles for 3-4 transits, 5 F-250s, 1 F-350, 3 F-450s, and 2 F-550s.
 13 Ford Explorers, 1 Ford Escape and 4 Ford Fusions with Anderson Rock River Ford in the amount of $1,067,656. The funding source is Department Capital Budgets in 2014.
 Item 12 is a resolution authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for Biennial Bridge Inspection Program with H.R. Green Incorporated of Rockford in the amount of $174,035.75. The funding source is sales tax.
 Item 13 is the adoption of a resolution authorizing the Mayor to execute an engineering agreement for Cessna Drive water main and well 24 pavement improvements with Crawford Murphy Tilly of Rockford in the amount of $69,150. The funding source is water replacement and improvement
 And item 14 is a resolution authorizing the Mayor to execute an engineering agreement amendment for the reconstruction of airport and drive at Falcon Road with Crawford Murphy Tilly for an additional amount of $199,989.20 and an amended contract total of $747,317.78.
 motor fuel tax, GRAA funds, IDOT, EDP funds and the EDA grant funds and all of those items that are placed up for passage and just as a note item 15 is held out and will be presented next week when the full council is available for the committee meeting.
 Thank you. So the items up for passage include the following motions and resolutions. The first, authorizing the agreement for 2411 West State Street demolition with Northern Illinois Service, the amount of $28,200. The next, authorizing the demolition of Group 3, Batch 10 with Northern Illinois Service, the amount of $21,550. The G&G construction, the amount of $24,450. The next is the agreement for demolition of Group 3, Batch 11 with RWTD,
 the amount of $26,194 in G&G Construction, the amount of $32,950 in N-TRAC Group.
 in the amount of $28,434. Next is the agreement for storage and disposal of in-pound vehicles with Greater Rockford Auto Auction for an estimated $1 million. Next is the agreement for towing vehicles with Husk Towing for an estimated total of $227,830. Next is the resolution
 The agreement for an open contract for 2014 citywide vehicles for three Ford Transits, five F-250s, one F-350, three F-450s, two F-550s, and 13 Ford Explorers and one Ford Escape in four Ford Fusions with the Anderson Rock River, amount of $1,967,656. Next is the agreement.
 engineering agreement for by Hennele Bridge inspection with HR Green in the amount of $174,035.75. Next is the engineering agreement for Cessna Drive, Water Main and Wall 24 pavement improvements with Crawford, Murphy and Tilly in the amount of $69,150. Finally, the engineering agreement amendment for reconstruction of Airport Drive and Falcon
 murphy and tilly for an additional amount of 199 900 item number six
 demolition on West State Street. We're using 25% sales tax. This is not part of the West State Street reconstruction. So my question is why are we using sales tax? Mr. Wright. The West State Street corridor study has been a combination of utilizing motor fuel taxes as well as local sales taxes to match the state's program.
 Thank you. Secondly, Mr. Mayor, item number nine, the storage and disposal of impound vehicles. It states estimated $1 million. Do we have the amounts in previous years? Do we have a minimum? It comes in at $70,000. Mr. Mayor?
 The amount that we receive, that million dollars in revenue, is a combination of impound fees that they collect on our behalf and provide to us, which has run about $800,000 per year over the last three years. And then there was a note in the memo, which you don't have here in possession, that we received 75% of the proceeds from the sale of vehicles that are picked up. I believe that's been in place for,
 for the third year and that generates about $200,000 annually. So that's how we come to the million dollars. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, item number 11, the no bid contract for purchase of various vehicles listed. Why is it a no bid contract?
 Thank you, Mayor. What we started to do procedurally last year was for a couple different reasons. We rather than going through the state contract and receiving state bid pricing and then purchase purchasing those vehicles from a dealer that's located in another locale, we decided to approach vendors after discussion with the finance and personnel committee.
 to approach the local dealer here, the one-four dealer with the state bid price. And if they would match that state bid price or come in lower, we would achieve the best pricing that we could receive typically. And we would keep that purchase local. And that also had a secondary benefit of keeping the warranty work and the maintenance for those same vehicles at a local dealership.
 So then, Mr. Mayor, are we checking with this list of purchases and we already know what the state price would be if we had gone to the state? I believe so, Mr. Black. And able to move forward? Yep, that's correct. We would take that pricing, and depending on the maker of the vehicle and the vehicle it is, it comes out a different time of the year, typically in spring or late spring, early summer, and then we go to the dealer and say this is the pricing we're receiving. Okay.
 Thank you. And finally, Mr. Mayor, item number 12, the bridge. Again, we're using sales tax dollars for the bridge maintenance program.
 Mr. Hanson. Mayor, this is our biannual bridge program that we have to pay for those inspections. If there's any construction that has to be done with those bridges, then it's an 80-20 split. But we take care of the inspections. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor, have we always used the sales tax for this program? Thank you.
 Well, not always since we've gone over to the 1% sales tax. We have used the sales tax money. I think before that was MFP money. Thank you, Mayor. Follow-up to McNeely's question. We're using sales tax, not motor fuel tax for that? Correct. Mr. Hanson, can you repeat that? Yeah, that is correct. And one more, please. On number 10...
 the 227 thousand eight hundred thirty dollars is the estimated is that for impounded in being abandoned cars what let's take that thank you sir thank you there I'm I have
 It includes a variety of tows. Most of those are generated by the police department per their request. It includes disabled city owned vehicles, lost and stolen, abandoned vehicles or police requests which make up the majority of the units.
 of oversized vehicles and such. But I think the vast majority of the contract comes from lost, stolen or abandoned or other vehicles towed at the police department's request. Close to $150,000 out of the full $227,000 contract. So this is just the amount that we were not able to collect that we're being billed for,
 This is a towing fee that we pay, and if we typically recover the fund, recover those dollars from the party that has the vehicle towed, and we do receive it back. That's correct. Thank you.
 A question, Your Honor, follow-up to Alderman McNeely's question regarding item number 12. Do we not have a specific levy that is for the bridge program? I was a little confused about this, too. I thought we had a levy that provided for this biennial inspection.
 No, we don't have a levy for bridge inspection. Well, yeah, we do. We do levy something for the bridge. I guess my question is if we're using sales tax for this portion, why are we using sales tax and not that specific levy? Mr. Ray? The street and bridge levy that we do assess on our property tax levy goes for street operations and not a contractual contract for bridge inspection.
 And many years for the bridge inspection program, we did utilize more fuel taxes. But when we had the additional flexibility of being able to use the capital sales tax, they have migrated to that for the inspection program. Okay. And I think the point that Alderman McNeely is probably alluding to is that as the money for sales tax in the CIP becomes more scarce because we are using it for some reason,
 admittedly worthwhile but capital improvement projects such as hotels, such as Ingersoll. We really need to take a look at some of these things in that 1% because we have to be able to demonstrate to the public that we're meeting the needs that we told them we would with that 1% sales tax. And for most people, that's streets and roads and they want to see those projects and I understand that the bridge inspection is important and it's a necessary
 But when we shift those funds, I think it's important that that be highlighted so that people aren't surprised by it. We know how much we're encroaching into that sales tax. Further discussion? Mr. Hayes. The item related to the award for citywide vehicles requires 10 boats because it's a sole source, which means it needs to be unanimous tonight. Thank you. One moment. Okay.
 then I would add I will hold that item out I know there was some concern about the timing of it but my assessment tells me that we will not meet that threshold so I'm going to
 I will hold that item out and re-refer it after next week and maybe we need to put that one on the committee report with some tweaking or on the committee agenda for next week for finance and personnel when we have the full council to get some better explanation and justification on it. So that item I will hold out so. Item 11 on the crib sheet related to the no bid contract for 2014 citywide vehicles will
 any other questions on the other items so the items that are up on the group sheet six seven eight nine ten twelve thirteen and fourteen are a passage there's no further questions i'm gonna ask the clerk to call the roll on those items gotchas make the mirror curvy hi hill hi odo newberg beach ellie mcneely shirely
 I didn't number nine twelve and fourteen nine nice one not only major time I feel like I think that's for the motions and resolutions business thank you right I just have one item tonight item number seventeen is found held out until the ordinance comes up next week
 Item 16 is an ordinance authorizing the mayor and legal director to execute the attached mutual aid agreement between the City of Rockford and the Illinois Public Works Mutual Aid Network for a total of $500 for membership in the network and that item will lay over.
 think you're on an ordinance that the mayor and the legal director are hereby authorized to execute the attached amendments to section sixteen days two sixty three of the city of rockford court of ordinances to adopt statutory authority to remove vehicles
 have an ordinance that the mayor and the legal director are hereby authorized to execute the attached amendments to section 3 dash 68 of the city of rockford code of ordinances asset training for liquor license holders those two items will lay over your honor holding out thank you
 motion to adjourn second motion second meeting all those in favor please say aye opposed no nice to have you meeting adjourned thank you