for us. All praises do to God, our Lord, the Lord of the heaven and the earth. Our Lord, we ask you to help and guide all these ladies and gentlemen to make the right decision for our beloved city, the city of Rockford. Our Lord, help the law enforcement to keep the great job to help and serve our city and its people.
 We ask you, our Lord, to keep our city to be a safe place, safe businesses, safe schools, safe homes, safe houses of worship. We pray for the people of Rockford to live their lives with peace and tranquility and harmony. And the same for our beloved country with all the states and counties and cities and all the citizens. Amen.
 United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. So I'm going to call for the roll call and then we're going to switch up the agenda. We have an alderman coming that will provide us with the quorum that we need to move on with our agenda momentarily, but to keep the evening moving, we'll just adjust the agenda if aldermen do not have an issue with that.
 So, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Gasparini. Here. Thunberg. Frost. Here. Hervey. Irving. Thompson-Culley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Here. Keonis. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Thank you. Seven. So we don't have a quorum, but can I still move forward with petitions and communications?
 So I'll move forward with petitions and communications and ask Alderman Rose for Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item, a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the 2020 through 2024 five-year consolidated plan, the 2020 annual action plan, analysis of impediments to fair housing choice, and neighborhood revitalization strategy area.
 under the Community Development Block Grant and Home Investment Partnership Program and Emergency Solution Grant Program, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. We'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from LaFecuria Vaughan, the Assistant City Attorney regarding the third quarter report.
 from July through September 2019 on the liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement. Number two is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on January 8, 2020, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on January 27th.
 2020 and I also have a referral for the agreement between the city of Rockford and Winnebago County Homes Association for a rock house on revel Avenue and that will be also referred to the Code and Regulations Committee for discussion on January 30 of 2020 I refer all of those two codes and regs your honor Thank You alderman Trelli next move to finance and personnel and to alderman Kevin frost. Thank you. You are a
 There's one matter which is a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty regarding a 2% general wage increase for nonrepresented employees. This matter will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Frost. I'm going to move next to, if there's no concern from Alderman, I'll move next to the public speakers and I'll circle back to the acceptance of the journal. So our first public speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Exodus, the 23rd chapter, the sixth verse, it says, do not deny justice to your poor people. What I want to speak about tonight, no Martin Luther King and groups of black preachers who met with Trump.
 Many of us have been indicted, arrested, and our homes bombed. But when we stand before the Negro population at prayer meetings, we can repeat that it is an honor to face jail for a just cause. If only those words of just cause and sacrifice of the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., and the action of thousands of others, both black and white, had touched the souls of the black preachers who met with Trump. They could not have
 praise a man who has vulgarly demeaned women, executed a policy of locking brown children's cages, and labeled black African homeland an
 assholes, yet their skunk-like presence could not have hit so hard. If more of the authentic preachers who fancied themselves as moral leaders had stood up forcefully to the obscenity of the Trump brand in the vacuum of leadership, the skunk-like passage just walked into Trump party, became intoxicated by having a seat at the table, and left a smelly scent over just causes of the black community.
 The meetings was organized by Pastor Paula White, a white Trump supporter, to discuss prison reform, but made no mention of the racial injustice that fuels it, nor why black football players protesting the broken criminal justice system are called SOB by the Trumps.
 While King's name was mentioned in the meeting, the minister should have emulated him by speaking forcefully as moralist with an agenda that should have included taking Trump to task for constantly chopping down black people such as CNN Don Lemon, representing Maxine Walton, LeBron James as dumb or low IQ individual while this character assassination may energize
 It also helped make black Americans vulnerable to hateful acts of harassment and discrimination. King and his disciples often had a seat at the table meeting with presidents, but they were accountable to those who depended on them to address their pain. In high-level meetings, the King aides worked to control the content of the agenda, searching for a win-win position. Only if that failed did direct action or boycotts and marches follow.
 model of the King's non-violent method was a meeting with President John F. Kennedy, which resulted in the 1963 March on Washington after the President had not agreed to force Congress to pass a strong federal civil rights bill. Kennedy's initial react reportedly was that the march was ill-timed, but the movement leaders decided there was no right time for justice. The march resulted in the bill signed in law on July 2, 1964. The Trump preachers apparently marched to a different beat.
 but despite their felons, they are only part of the problem because some black church leaders and major civil rights groups who carry weight in the black community have not raised their voice loud enough or united to strategize to counter the abuses of Trump and his racist cronies who protect him. So what happens when there's silence among the righteous? The crooks have a party and convince themselves of their grace. It's time for followers of Jesus Christ to stand up and speak up and say, Trump,
 We are tired of you and your racist cronies, and we are not going to put up with this garbage anymore. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. All right.
 They don't count my minutes, do they? Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons that are citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I want to start out by saying, forgetting the past and looking forward to what lies ahead. Proverbs 4, verses 25, 27 say, keep your eyes straight ahead.
 ignore all sideshow distraction watch your step and the road will stretch out smooth before you look never neither right nor left leave evil in the dust as luke said if you are
 faithful in little things, you will be faithful in large ones. And if you are not faithful with other people's things, why you should be trusted with things of other people's and being honest. So always be faithful. I want to start out by saying that really I want to talk about Donald Trump, but I just want to mention because it concerns all the nations.
 If another nation had to take out our Secretary of Defense, we would be at war. That Iranian was the equivalent to our Secretary of Defense. I want to congratulate the fact, and I'm not surprised, that the first day of the marijuana sale was $3.2 million. And then five days later, they made $10.5 million, and they had to close the doors because they ran out of money.
 marijuana i find that very hard to believe but the dope dealers on the streets are still busy now getting to what's in hand last year i want to thank the chief of police for allowing us for the second time to use the community room we instead of us taking forty we wind up taking we had tickets to take sixty five we wind up taking seventy eight people to the Harlem Gold Travelers game this year
 uh... speak with care and speak with other dignitaries and the mayor and speak with the uh... state representative we are going in two weeks from now we got a curriculum to go to springfield to do a tour my youth brought it up at the uh... mayor's uh... democratic youth
 a Trivial Contest that they wanted to go to Springfield. And I'm a gun-hole for that, where our youth want. But them going to Springfield, not only will they be learning about Springfield, but they'll be learning about our future.
 by taking our middle class and our high school kids to Springfield, then that would also get credit. I'm going to be meeting with Earl Dotson. He's 100 percent behind it. Ten years ago, we talked about reach one, teach one. We asked the churches to reach out there to reach for our youth, our at-risk youth, bring them in. The city also mentioned it several years ago. Well,
 Renewal turning point is going to be that pilot. I'm looking at the mayor helping us out with us going to Springfield. But most of all, I'm looking at teaming up with Dr. Leticia Wallace. Next month, she mentioned about going to the Underground Railroad. I've never been. Everybody I spoke to looked forward to doing that. And then you're getting credit for going to these different events. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Okay. Thank you.
 Our next public speaker this evening is Michael Hemmerly. Hello. I am here to discuss racism today and how to address it in schools and in society. Prejudice, discrimination, or antagonism directed against someone of a different race based on the belief that one's own race is superior. Racism has thoughts who've been around since the colonial era and has gone from lay-in overt to passive prejudice and discrimination.
 Today, it is often used as a means to express our frustration or opinions on differences of races in a way that is not as noticeable. Thusforth, we are unaware of our racist behavior as it has become so intact within our society. This is why subtle racism is so widely mistaken as normal, acceptable behavior. This is why when subtle racism is left to manifest, it can cause us to vote.
 vulnerable to mental, verbal, and physical issues. Unlike overt racism, convert racism goes unnoticed in our society, therefore it goes unnoticed and untreated. It then can cause us to have a divide in society and cause prejudice, thus creating a vicious cycle. There are two feelings that go into racism, prejudice and fear. All of us have prejudiced ideas towards one another. This comes from ignorance on our side. It's human response to have prejudiced ideas towards others because we have unlimited knowledge of them.
 thus all are prejudiced black people feel that higher levels of poverty and lower levels of economic mobility in their societies are the faults of america's legacy of systematic racism and underinvestment while white people are content with blaming black people themselves with racism in america
 No one feels safe. Muslims who are texting on commercial planes have been asked to leave, and people feel that when they shop, they are personally being targeted by the security based on racial ethnicity. Nowadays, we cannot pray to what religion we believe in without having some prejudice comment on how they feel about it. Imagine this.
 We're all at an important meeting, and they all ask for everyone to pray. We would expect people to get upset and cause commotion. This is an example of how people feel when they have specific religions that are looked down on. Our only option is to start talking about racism openly, starting now. Besides the cruelty of racism, letting it fester serves no one, not even the predominant group. We're all in this together. It's ironic, then, that we focus on labeling differences among us, particularly...
 whether those differences are negative or positive. For example, if a teacher looks at her students before her at the beginning of the school year, she will likely wonder who are going to be the easiest ones to teach. Isn't the one we assume to be easy to teach the student who most reflects our own culture, or the one who looks similar to a student from last year we enjoy teaching? We're already sorting according to built-in biases. We are, we wonder,
 Who will be the hardest to teach we often guess the students who don't look like anyone we've talked before we categorize others by using previous knowledge or from card catchers like white people who live in trailers are alcoholic Alcoholics we categorize Americans this way because of the biases we have adapted to Racism is an uncomfortable topic to address in all of us this day
 and all of us know this to a degree we avoid such talks in school because it could stir up issues we aren't prepared for we are afraid we will lose friends or peers because we fear to say the wrong things and seem racist thus crippling constructive opportunities we have thank you mr hemmerle thank you i'm going to go back to
 I don't think we need to do a full roll call, but acknowledge that alderman Tumberg is present that we now have a quorum I'll go back to the acceptance of the journal. Is there a motion to approve? So that we have a motion and a second for the journal, uh Proceedings of the city council meeting held on december 16th 2019 any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye Those opposed same sign motion passes so then we're going to move to new committee reports
 it doesn't look like we have any planning and development committee so we'll move directly to code and regulation committee alderman shirely thank you your honor
 First, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store. And B, the sale of tobacco products at 542 North Lyford Road, subject to conditions. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining LTAB's
 the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store. And the sale of tobacco products at 2975 North Perryville Road, subject to conditions.
 number three the committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the grocery store at 4302 Sandy Hollow Road subject to conditions number four the committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license and
 Consisting of a restaurant and a drive up window and a banquet facility to include video gaming terminals at 7128 Spring Creek Road, subject to conditions. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit to allow three business identification wall signs.
 At 2114 Kishwaukee Street, subject to conditions number six, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit to crease electronic display sign square footage from 36 square feet. To 55.82 square feet within the free standing monument sign.
 B, the variation to allow four interchangeable wall-mounted light pole style signs for the purpose of on-premise special event advertising and sponsor brand name recognition. C, the variation to increase the maximum number of wall signs from two to three for the hotel. And D, the variation to increase the maximum permitted square footage for a wall sign from 240 square feet to 289.26 square feet.
 at 416 South Main Street, subject to conditions, and I place those up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So, Alderman, you have six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Alderman Rose. For 5, what were the recommendations on that one?
 I'll ask Director Franzen to provide those. CBA agreed with variance for three signs, although it did request a change in location. So one sign on the north, one sign on the south, and one sign facing the west. Is there further discussion on any of the six items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey? Aye. Gasparini? Aye. Tunberg? Aye. Frost? Rose? Aye. Beach? Keonis? I'm sorry, Beach? Okay, Keonis?
 All right. Chiarelli? So seven ayes on B1A and 2A and eight ayes on the remainder. Thank you.
 Those items move forward next up. We'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you I number one our voucher the amount of sixteen million five hundred and thirty four thousand seven hundred and forty nine dollars and 72 cents as presented last week number two is the committee recommends approval of the transfer of two city-owned properties Under the city's moda own program. The first property address is six one five Furman Street and the second property is one one two eight Blaisdell Street
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the revisions to the City of Rockford rules and regulations, drug free workplace, nonrepresented, equal employment and prohibiting discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment, social media, and victims economic safety and security act leave known as VESA. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the amended and restated intergovernmental cooperation agreement for the assessment compliant intervention between the City of Rockford, the Rockford School District number 205, the County of Winnebago, Rock River Water Reclamation District, and the Rockford Park District. The League of Directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those mayors before you. Thank you Alderman Frost. So we have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items?
 i've seen no discussion clerk will you please call the roll jerky gasparini tunberg frost rose beach kionis shirely eight eyes your own thank you so all of those items uh move forward next up we have uh officers reports alderman frost thank you yeah i just wanted to uh comment on the sun the cresco sunny side uh marijuana
 retail shop that opened last week in the city of Rockford. I happened to be undergoing physical therapy next door, and I was there on New Year's Eve, New Year's Day, and the next day. And I had an email with someone from Cresco that sent, I think, an email to all aldermen asking us to attend the grand opening, which I really wasn't planning on doing, but I happened to be in the fracas anyway. But my email to her was
 What is your plan and protocol going to be for parking? And this email took place prior to New Year's Eve. And she said that I'll get back to you the next day, which I didn't hear back from her on. I did eventually hear back from her, indicating that they were going to have some security guards there. When I was there on New Year's Eve, it was the first day that the medical marijuana had started.
 started up again, I think because of the construction of the recreational side of the business and I couldn't believe what I saw. I've never seen so many cars and I know there are some people here from many of the businesses, but I mean whether it was
 Cars at Xavier's, Mary's Market, the salon next door, the Boy Scouts, Blue Cross Blue Shield, Dr. Zack's Dental Office, this whole area of the city turned into a frenzy of just, unfortunately people meeting the stereotypes of people that you would, maybe some people would think would show up in a place like this. But I've never seen so many disrespectful people, people disobeying just the generalities of business.
 They could not park at Cresco Sunnyside because they had a tent in the parking lot. And that blame really is on Cresco. They knew this was going to be a major event on New Year's Day. They knew that there was going to be hundreds, if not thousands of people waiting in line to do it. And all they had was a tent, but they had nowhere for these folks to park. So I guess by default, they decided to park illegally amongst all these other businesses along the area, which I think were rather shell shocked.
 And it was really a disruption to all of their lives, to all of their businesses, to all of their patrons that really harmed their businesses in a detrimental manner because, frankly, a lot of people just died.
 left the area because of the chaos. So I know at some point the city of Rockford police got involved. At some point, Cresco, I think, hired some private security guards to help. There was a shuttle out there, but again, the sign that said catch the shuttle on it looked like it was prepared maybe by a first or second grader. So I don't know when, I'm hopeful that the retail side of the business
 is not at such a flurry of activity and will not disrupt the businesses. But if in fact this pace continues, and I thank the city. I know Mr. Cagnoni was involved, I know the mayor was involved, I know the police department were involved, and a stern warning was given. But they have got to run this business and take into consideration not just their business, but all of the business in the community around them. Thank you. Certainly.
 Thank you alderman frost. I mean, I think you're you hit the nail right on the head on a number of those points Uh, I think we were all made aware and a number of businesses who are represented here and probably some who are not represented We're certainly at strong negative impacts and I I do want to thank the police department public works department That's been trying to work in the legal department trying to work to a uh
 Move this issue forward in a way that would be suitable and acceptable to all but we still have a lot of work to be done and Hopefully it'll be better Thank you other reports seeing no others. I would just mention when we obviously had a pretty major incident in the city of Rockford Friday evening and just want to I
 First, say thank you to Chief O'Shea. The police department want to thank all the first responders who were involved in the incident. Want to thank the many businesses that stepped up to support our first responders who were out there for hours.
 I want to say thank you to Public Works, to our communications department, which is one person, and Laura Mayer for the work that she did out there. I want to thank all of the other adjoining departments that assisted the City of Rockford.
 what was but could have been even more tragic of an incident. And I just want to say I personally hope that the survivor, uh, the hostage is able to get the services that she needs. Uh, and that our community allows her to have that space to receive those services on that. We're all thinking about her. But a big also thank you to the police and all those who responded to that. So
 Is there any other officers reports seeing none will move forward? Appointments are still laid over to January 15th. So we'll move beyond that and we'll go to motions and resolutions There's nothing under planning and development. So we'll go to code and regulation alderman trout. Thank your honor. I have one item That's a request to list for sale the city-owned property Located at 134 North Main Street place that up for passage. Thank you. So there's one item before you Is there any discussion on that one item?
 Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor, and Happy New Year to you as well. I had talked to Mike before the meeting about the price that was going to be put on this property and
 And he said that it hasn't been completed yet, but it would be the appraisal value, legal straight appraisal value or greater in that amount. I'm not sure what that is, but I wanted to make that comment that it's going to be appraised by a licensed appraiser. And whatever that number is plus would be what we're going to offer it for sale. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Seeing none, although, clerk, would you please call the roll?
 Durkee, aye. Gasparini, aye. Thunberg, aye. Frost, Rose, Beach, aye. Keonis, Shirelli, eight ayes, Your Honor. Thank you, the item passes. Next up we'll move to finance and personnel. Back to Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an award of the non-competitive contract for the firefighter turnout gear to Honeywell of Dayton, Ohio for an estimated contract amount of $150,000.
 The contract duration is one year with the option to extend annually for an additional three years. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Number two is an award of RFP for Brownfields Environmental Assessment Work to Fairgram and Associates of Rock for the amount of $272,500. The funding source is the Brownfields Assessment Grant from the United States EPA.
 Number three is a chain is change order number one for city sidewalk and ad repairs package number four 2019 to Stenstrom excavation in blacktop of Rockford. The original contract amount was fifty eight thousand nine hundred and forty three dollars and Thirty three cents and the current proposed change order is twenty seven thousand three hundred and two dollars and eighty three cents for an amended contract amount of eighty six thousand two hundred and forty six dollars and sixteen cents and
 This change order is needed to the addition of five sidewalk repair locations in an unforeseen field identified stormwater line repair. The added locations are listed in the memo, the funding source is sales tax.
 Number four is change order number two for citywide repairs group number three 2019 at TCI concrete of Rockford the original concrete amount was one million three hundred ninety thousand thirty two dollars and twenty seven cents The previously approved change order was one hundred and sixty four thousand four hundred and thirty eight dollars and the current proposed change order is 274 thousand three hundred and thirty dollars and thirty three cents for an amended contract amount of one million eight hundred and one thousand eight hundred dollars and sixty cents
 The additional work was required at locations listed in the memo. The following work included additional paving areas, curb and gutter repairs, sidewalk repairs, approach repairs, subgrade undercutting, and drainage repairs. The additional work will be completed in the spring of 2020. The funding source is sales tax.
 Number five is the approval of the sale of one used 2012 Ford wheel coach ambulance to the city of Lowe's Park in the amount of $20,000. I place these items before you. Thank you Alderman Frost. We have five items before you. Is there any discussion? Alderman Beach. Thanks your honor. On number four, can we just get a little discussion about what causes the great amount of change order from the original contract?
 Certainly director Saunders. Thank you mayor So as we're field adjusting we our staff we do not do surveying in advance obviously surveying would drive up our overall project cost and
 As our contractors are putting in and making these improvements, a lot of times we may have to change the profile of the curb and gutter as we're doing paving. We may have to encumber additional approaches to meet the grade. And then also while we're making some of these concrete repairs, we notice that there's an additional panel on either side of the approach or an additional trip hazard or just overall deterioration that requires
 additional removal so obviously as staff is going throughout they're making those field adjustments so in this case there were 13 different locations that required additional work thank you thank you sir thank you is there any uh other discussion on the five items before you seeing no further discussion clerk will you please call the roll burkey yes berrini timber cross rose beach pianist shirely eight eight eyes your honor
 Thank you those items pass Next we will move to new business and if there is no planning and development item but there is code and regulation committee all their minch rally and
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 542 North Lyford Road. Number two is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 542 North Lyford Road. Number three is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 2975 North Perryville Road.
 Number four is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 2975 North Perryville Road. Number five is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the grocery store at 4302 Sandy Hollow Road. Number six is an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license consisting of a restaurant and drive-thru window.
 drive up window and a banquet facility at including video gaming terminals at 71 28 spring creek road Number seven is an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit to allow three business identification wall signs at 21 14 kishwaukee street
 And number eight is an ordinance approving the special use permit to increase an electronic display sign square footage from 36 square feet to 55.82 square feet within a freestanding monument. Sign a variation to allow for interchangeable wall mounted light pole style signs for the purpose of on premise special event advertising and sponsor brand name recognition.
 a variation to increase the maximum number of wall signs from two to three for the hotel and a variation to increase the maximum permitted square footage for a wall sign from 240 square feet to 289.26 square feet at 416 south main street i placed those eight ordinances up for passage your honor thank you all the mincharelli so there's eight items before you is there any discussion on those eight items seeing none clerk will you please call the roll
 Durkee? Aye. Gasparini? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Rose? Beach? All B1. Sorry, no on which one? Keonis? Seven ayes on B1 and eight ayes on the remainder. Oh, I'm sorry, Alderman Shiroly? Aye. Aye. Seven ayes on B1 and eight ayes on the remainder. B1 and B3 both had seven, right? That's correct. I'll vote aye on both of those. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you.
 Next up we have finance and personnel committee. No, I'm sorry. I
 Yeah, next up we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost. Thank you, there are four ordinances here. Number one is an ordinance approving the transfer of city owned property located at 615 Furman Street to West Gateway Coalition under the city's Moda Own program. Number two is an ordinance approving the transfer of city owned property located at 1128 Blaisdale Street to Robert Esmond under the city's Moda Own program. Number three is an ordinance approving the revisions to the city of Rockford rules and regulations.
 Drug free workplace nonrepresented, equal employment and prohibiting discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment, social media and the victims economic safety and security act leave. And number four is an ordinance approving the amended and restated intergovernmental cooperation agreement for the assessment complaint intervention between the city of Rockford, Rockford School District, number 205, county of Winnebago, Rockford Water Reclamation District, and the Rockford Park District.
 I place those four matters before the council. Excellent. So we have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Gasparini? Aye. Toomber? Aye. Frost? Aye. Rose? Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye.
 really hi state eyes your honor thank you so those items pass and i think only because our legal director would never want us to have a short meeting i'm going to turn to alderman shirely thank you your honor if we say no what happens takes one person to say no right right alderman quinones no tape so i i make a motion i make a motion to convene and to
 And to close session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters and pending litigation your honor we have a motion we need a second We have a motion we have a second any discussion all those in favor I'm gonna need to take a roll call so please call the roll Gasparini timber Kevin Rose Beach
 Aye. Pionis? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eight ayes. All right, we'll move to closed session.