Ross, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirelli. Eleven present, Your Honor. Excellent. First up this evening, we have a special presentation by the Visitor and Convention Bureau with John Groh and Tana Vittori. So we have, we set right up here. And while they're making their way, I just want to say on my behalf at
 as well as thousands of citizens. Thank you for the work that you have done to make Stroll a fantastic annual event that I think families and our entire community looks forward to every single year. And to think it's completing, it completed its fifth year. Now there's a whole new set of kids that everyone who are under five years old,
 only thinks of Stroll being the place that their family goes. It's a pretty special event that you guys have created and really brought to life throughout our community. So thank you so much for the work that you do, not just on Stroll because this is one piece of your job, but this is a really special event, and we're fortunate to have it. So thank you. Thank you very much. Happy New Year. Happy New Year.
 It feels good to be back. And I do want to thank you. I think we both want to thank you very much, Mayor, and City Council, for inviting us to do a fifth-year anniversary short and brief recap with you of Strollen State. Thank you.
 I hope you are as excited as we are that each year more and more of our local residents and families are saving the date and making sure that they come and enjoy the tradition that they've made it and enjoy.
 and they come and enjoy it with their friends and family. Many, we have heard from, actually have rearranged their travel schedules and have invited their family to enjoy the holiday weekend with them. So they are coming and visiting Rockford for the very first time. So that's pretty exciting. I don't know if we can tell you often enough how grateful we are to you and value your partnership with Stroll on State.
 Five years ago you said yes and you believed that something was possible and we often say that if not for Stroll, if not for X, Stroll wouldn't happen and we have a
 wheel of spokes and you are first spoke on that wheel of importance to us. And I'd also like to thank Kelly Noakes, I know she's not here this evening, and Mark Stockman and Public Works.
 They help and work with us to plan for logistics, road closures, we work with police and fire through them, and they have been great partners. I can only imagine what we could continue to do outside of Stroll-On-State as our partnership continues. Yes, I should change. Certainly without you and love from our community, Stroll would not be Stroll, so we thank you.
 This year, as I've already said, marked a significant milestone in the fifth year. So a few of the changes and enhancements that we made is that we reimagined the Stroll-on-State parade. And while it included all of the horse and wagon rides and the fun features that we've had in the past, this year we kicked off the event of Stroll-on-State on the top of the day. And many of you were involved in that. And we also...
 invited the community to participate, and they did in a big way by building and including holiday floats as well as music. And for the first time that I'm aware of, we had large scale helium balloons, the same helium balloons that are featured in Chicago and at the Macy's Day Parade. And we got our feet wet by introducing the helium balloons this year.
 Additionally, we have a new partnership with Fleet Feet, and we had our first 5K Dasher Dash run walk with a record number of participants at 954. I've been told by them that that's now the largest race in Rockford. Who would have known? And you can only imagine if history repeats itself, what could be next year? Sure.
 But most important to us is that our community comes together and we celebrate together and kick off the holiday season with our family and friends. So before John speaks to some of some important results, I'd love to share with you some of the comments that we, I extrapolated from the Strollen State Survey.
 Best ever, parades and balloons were absolutely unreal. The vibe, everyone is in good spirits and polite. Something is happening every minute. The festive spirit is happy and safe. And I think that's, we heard that comment over and over again. We just saw, I just noticed what we knew what happened. Alderman Shirely has noticed that his name came up, but it's actually your son's name because your son's band performed at Scullin' State.
 We anticipated that though. This is a compilation of a word graph of things that people like most and your son's wonderful band was one of those things.
 People commented over and over again that they love seeing so many people out enjoying downtown, and it just fills it with life and beauty in our city. There were several comments that talked about the river lights and the activation that that brings and the beauty that that brings to the river walk. And I think that we, not every city has a river that runs through it. So we need to embrace that and continue to be proud of it.
 And I think one of the things that I notice so much in Stroll is that when I grew up and before I came to CVB, I often heard about this divide.
 And with Stroll on State, the west side is as activated as the east side, and there is no division. We see that in the reports from vendors and how well they do, regardless of which side of the river that we're on, and we see that through the aerial shots where you see people that are collected on both sides. So I think that we're really proud of that, and I can say from my own personal self is that
 of all the things that I've had the opportunity to work on and do in my life, Stroll is near and dear to my heart and among the top five for sure.
 Two business owners commented. Sarah Leon, she said, Stroll for me is about having fun for us. We cut loose and we are just ourselves. And they did some on the spot sales as a business owner, but it was mostly for them about seeding business for the future. A lot of people called the week after and they made appointments for cuts. So that was great to hear. And Karen Alleya,
 she reported in an article that she really counts on special events for more than a one-day sales boost. And we see this over and over again, that special events help tremendously because so many new people discover us. And when they return throughout the year, that's really what keeps her in business.
 But the best comment, and I'll leave you with this, the day after when I'm scrolling through Facebook and almost every post is something positive about Rockford, that's when you know you've started to transform your city. And I hope that we are immensely and incredibly proud of that. I'll turn it over to you, my friend. All right.
 I don't know that I can get better than transformation, but what I wanted to share with the council, with the mayor, staff, and those watching at home are some of the ways that Stroll and more broadly special events and activation are transforming our central city, but the city more broadly. This slide shows just the feedback that people have about their experience. A total of, let's see, about 10,
 Well, 95% say they have a good, a very good, or an excellent experience in downtown for Strollon State. And I think that's fantastic. People comment that it's a fun event, it's a clean event, it's a safe event, it's a vibrant event. And we're thrilled as your partner to be able to help make that happen.
 We look at, because one of the goals is about exposing individuals to our downtown community and the retailers and entrepreneurs. If you look here on the left, about evenly split between daily, weekly, monthly, and once every few months is what people report as their pattern for coming downtown.
 about 21% daily and 24% weekly. I look back at the original survey that we did in 2013 and 15% at that point said they came daily and now that's 21%. 24% say they come weekly and that was 22%. So we're seeing increases in frequency. Then if you look at the perception of downtown before coming to Stroll-On State, on the right,
 You see that 53% said I love downtown and 40% say it's neutral, it's fine. And then about 7% say I have a negative perception.
 Well, if you look back, and I think it's important for council to think about this a couple years ago, given the significant focus that you've had as a body on our central city for the benefit of our whole city, 47% in 2013 said, I love downtown, and now that number is 53%.
 So we've moved the needle really significantly on that. And then we move those people from the fine and neutral. And typically in any business, you want to move people from being neutral to being positive. It's usually the negatives that you can't ever move, and that's consistent in what we're seeing.
 We asked this year, did being downtown during Stroll-On State change your perception? And 56% said it positively changed their perception. And when you look at what they were impacted by or what they walked away from, people are saying it's cleaner than I thought, it's safer than I thought downtown, there are more places to eat and more places to shop.
 And those numbers are consistently, and those categories are consistently the ones that are high. The top two always being it's cleaner than I thought and it's safer than I thought as I look back over the past several years.
 Would you visit downtown again? 92% of the people who were at Stroll and responded said they probably will or definitely will. 8% were neutral, and only 1% said probably not. I think that gives high marks to your downtown and what is happening through many investments, including activation like Stroll OnState.
 We look at repeat visitation versus new visitation. About 20% said it was their first time at Stroll-On State, which buoys our projections of attendance growth. Further, if you want to peel back the onion layer,
 About 20 to 25% in each of the five-year categories, one, two, three, four, and five, have said they've attended one year, two year, three year, four year, five year. So again, I think it's showing that people are repeat attendees to the event, which also helps demonstrate growth.
 One of the things that our entire team, Tana and I and our staff, really looked at is to see how this slide changes, which is the demographic of people who are coming to the event to downtown. And this is the decision maker, the person answering the survey. Right there in the middle, 42% are 35- to 50-year-olds. Very intentionally, and then right after that, 27%, 18- to 34-year-olds. This event, unapologetically, is multigenerational event.
 family-oriented, but geared to and targeted toward younger generations under 50. Because we are building downtown a central city for the next multiple generations, it's important to see moms with strollers, families, young couples, groups of friends coming downtown. And we see that as hugely positive to the growth of our community and the central city.
 Money spent and time strolled continue to be strong indicators at the event, with some people staying all seven-plus hours and some people being there just under an hour. One thing I want to leave on before I play a short video to recap the night
 We look at one thing that's called a net promoter score, and this might be a little wonky, but it's something that businesses and organizations across the world look at to understand the strength of their product. In this case, the product is Stroll, undergirded by a strong downtown. We have a solid 68 net promoter score.
 Anything 70 above is considered world class. And the way net promoter scores work is, essentially, if you're above zero, you're good. The range is negative 100 to positive 100.
 Above zero is good, above 50 is excellent, and above 70 is world class. So I hope you all are proud of the world class event that we have in our community that we're able to produce together. As Tana said, we could not do this without the support. We wouldn't want to do it without the support of the city at all levels. And we hope that you're proud, that our citizens are proud. By the way, the attendees who come are by and large Rockford residents and Winnit Baywood County residents.
 with about 10% coming from outside the county. That was always important to us at the Visitors Bureau, to our staff and our leadership team of volunteers, that we create something that's for our community. And certainly this tells us that those people who are coming believe it's a world-class event that they love to repeat and come back to. Now I'd like to share just a quick one minute. Oh, this is important. I'm sorry, Mayor. Mayor.
 Positive identity for the community. We have at the Bureau, you know, been looking at and talking about the role that activation and celebration have. And I believe that activation and celebration leads to transformation.
 Our community, I believe, is right in sync with that. This is a statistic from a countywide citizen survey that the Bureau and the city, Transform, Rockford, and the county are going to be coming out with the results. So a sneak peek, 50% of our citizens strongly agree that events like Stroll on State have a positive impact on the identity, the perceptions of our community, and another 38% agree as well. And...
 I think that means our citizens are hungry for these and that they change the perception and the reality of our community. Now, the video, which is just about a minute long. Glenn, do you want to help me out? Who has the computer? No, we need you up here, Glenn, I think. How do you go back? I don't have a computer. Oh, we can't miss the video. Can you do that? Go ahead. Go back two slides. There it is. Isn't it?
 You told me not to get trigger happy. Okay. Don't get trigger happy. Did you click that? I did click it. I don't know what code I got available. Can that play me? Well, it was fantastic. That's okay. Can you share that with us? I will. If I send it to your office, you can maybe send it out. Well, Mayor, that's what we had, and we'd be happy to answer any questions. Certainly. I'll open it up to questions. One thing I failed to mention is just speaking with some businesses –
 As you walk throughout and you just talked to business owners, several told me that Stroll-On-State was not just their largest night of the year, but it actually makes up, they call it their 13th month. So it's really impressive the amount of people that you draw down to our city core. And I know we thanked you and your staff, but I think...
 Public Works fire police a big thank you for the work that you do to help put on this fantastic event And I'd be remiss not to mention Heartland Church and the tremendous amount of volunteers And I would suggest any alderman throughout Next year when strolls on going into the sixth year stop by the Santa's workshop to just see the number of
 of people giving their time, absolutely free of charge. Some can't even make it to the event itself, but just want to give their time to an event that benefits our entire city. It is really humbling and inspiring to see. Just tremendous effort, so thank you. Thank you. Any questions or comments?
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I want to thank you, all of you, all the volunteers, certainly all the city staff. This is something that the city needs so frequently. We hear residency, and there's nothing to do in Rockford. And over the years, we had a few really good events.
 I haven't always agreed with the funding, or the amount of funding, but certainly knowing that this is what we need as a community, just for ourselves, just to enjoy living here, enjoy working here, to have those moments of celebration, of relaxation.
 I didn't attend it. I heard all about it, the number of people. The kids just loved it, especially the big –
 snowmen coming down the street. They just love that. So I certainly want to encourage the volunteers, want to encourage individuals to volunteer next year and hopefully it can be even bigger and better. And people don't need to go to Chicago now and go down State Street to look at the windows and the celebration. We have a beautiful State Street. Because we have it here. Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Alderman Rose. Well, I want to congratulate you guys as well as being 35, I have a lot of friends that have moved out of the city and moved to surrounding areas and I
 I look at our city and I, when I see them come down for this event and see people stay in town over the holiday weekend for this, you kind of make them feel bad for leaving the city, you know, and saying, hey, maybe you should come back. So, it's just one of those events that is inspiring and the work that is put into it, it's overwhelming and I know you do that and
 So I just wanted to say congratulations on that work. I did want to also challenge you in the upcoming years to look at ways that we can include neighborhood organizations as a part of it. Also, I'm a big ugly Christmas sweater guy, so get a contest for that, because I'd like to compete in that. Thank you. Alderman Toomber. Good one, Alderman Rose.
 Thank you for everything you do, both of you, for Stroll On State. On behalf of the Third Ward where most of it takes place, again yet another great event taking place in the Third Ward, which the Mayor and I both live in of course.
 So, but speaking of the mayor, he hit on some great points and points that I was going to hit on as well. Thank you for what you had to say about Stroll. I would reiterate those points as well. Heartland Church, I want to put out a thanks to them, too. They have a lot of work with us.
 But this is an event, similar to kind of piggybacking on Alderman Rose, this is an event from someone such as myself that has lived away from Rockford for many years before coming back. This is something that I would be absolutely proud to have anyone come in from out of town, from anywhere, and attend this event. It is just a fantastic event. I applaud you also on really getting a lot of the activities
 This year that happened on the west side of the river. A lot of the food trucks, the carriage rides, a lot of those events we attended there. And I just thought, Tana, that that was very accurate. It just really is a unifier of our city. So thank you very much for all you do, both of you.
 Alderman Frost wants to talk about his age group. You said we were there in 24 percent. As the alderman that's appointed to the CVB Board, I'm never surprised at what this group does and can do. John and staff are...
 keen on having early morning meetings, which I don't mind attending, some maybe do, but throughout the course of the year, at the meetings, Stroll On State is discussed, but it's not like it's the primary purpose, obviously, of the CVB. And it's amazing that Tana and your staff and everybody can pull this event off.
 I mean, I've watched it grow. I've seen, I mean, it's a large event and I've been around a lot of large events before and it takes a lot of work and prep work and logistic work. And to see this event, you know, this year the weather was fantastic.
 the balloons with something new. To have something new and creative and not turn it into the same thing year after year, that's the hard part. And as time goes on, I'm sure that's a challenge. But so far, so good. And every year there's been new creative ideas.
 Still keeping the core essence of it the same and again we have some folks from out of town here that weekend And it is it makes you Really proud to be to be a rock 40 and to be from Illinois and to see an event take like this take place in our Hometown is fantastic, so keep up the good work. Thank you Alderman Beach Thank you your honor I
 I love families. And John, this has been just one of the great things. I know that I'm that age group of 5%. That would be about 4,125 of us down there. You're always gonna find that. Down there. But to see the happiness and to see the families together,
 seeing kids pull on their mothers and fathers, whatever it might be, to see the s'mores and the hot fire coals, it's just wonderful. Thank you very much. I would like to also thank you for providing some transportation, the buggies and the horses for the aldermen, their families. That's always special. Thank you for that. We don't take it for granted. And if possible, I'd sure love to be able to get some of these pictures. Thank you.
 I'd love to see some framed pictures of the huge crowds. So I don't know how you would do that, whether you want to sell them or what. But, again, for the bottom of my heart, personally, and our family and our citizens. Now, of the 10th Ward, now, Thunberg said that there are a lot of 10th Ward residents downtown. Thanks again, John. Appreciate that. You're welcome.
 Thank you. Thank you so much. If I could add one comment. There are many groups who help make this happen, many churches, many employee groups from large employers.
 And so we welcome neighborhood groups, we welcome organizations that want to be part, Girl Scout groups were part of it this year, to reach out to us. And the sooner the better, so we can plan well. But we love, I mean, this is for the community, by the community, and so we certainly welcome groups to be part of it.
 I would be remiss. There are so many wonderful events that happen in our community throughout the year. We view Stroll as really the kickoff to a wonderful holiday season. We call it the merry and bright season. So we think there are many wonderful things yet to come, greater things yet to happen in our city. And we appreciate the support for this and whatever else might come in the future. Thank you both. Really appreciate it.
 Next up, we have appointments laid over, an appointment for Gregory Harley to the Mechanical Board for a five-year term. This appointment will fill the vacancy for a license holder and refrigeration. This item is up. Is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Back. McNeely. Chiarelli.
 Ten ayes, one no. Thank you. That item passes. Next up, we have public speakers this evening. We have three public speakers. The first, I'll remind all public speakers that they have three minutes to speak. The first public speaker that we have this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 105th chapter, the 15th verse, it says, Touch not my anointed ones. Do my prophets no harm.
 What I want to speak about tonight, children, you are not stupid.
 Have you ever thought of yourself as being less intelligent than others? Did other kids at school call you dumb? If so, how did this make you feel about your ability to learn and be considered a good student? I know someone who was held back in first grade and lived with this stigma of being academically slow for the rest of his school career. Yes, he had difficulty with classes that focused on reading, math, and writing. But I assure you, he was not stupid.
 He had above average artistic skills and was one of the most creative person I know. Perhaps you know someone like this or maybe this is similar to your story. Many people simply because they do not excel in certain subjects at school are labeled as dumb or slow and are considered inferior to others too. But are they really dumb? Are they really in fact inferior?
 Or is it just that most traditional school systems focus on a particular approach to reading, writing and arithmetic? What about those students who natural abilities do not lend themselves to success in those areas? Who and what really is stupid?
 but they are eight kinds of smart that people don't talk about and i'm gonna name them tonight one word smart two logic smart three picture smart four music smart five body smart six nature smart seven people smart eight self smart by broadening our understanding of what it means to be smart it becomes easier to understand in what ways are you smart find out and use your smartness to become successful in life the man
 that I was talking about saved my life in Vietnam. He was the first African American to get the Congressional Medal of Honor in Vietnam. His name is James Anderson, Jr. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet Yusuf. Next public speaker we have this evening is Reverend Derek Shelby. Next public speaker we have is Mr. John Tech Brantley.
 Good evening Mayor McNamara and Happy New Year to everyone that's here. All the men and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 29 verses 25 say, Fear people can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form that can make you afraid to leave your home.
 By contrast, fear God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear people who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word. Let's talk about white privilege and hatred.
 Plus, Dr. King, Dr. Michael Luther King's birthday this month. How many police stations here in Rockville will be honoring on January the 15th on Monday that school is out? It's a sad day that so many of our young people do not even know who the Harlem Gold Travelers are and that very few have ever been to the game. Yet most of them have very little knowledge of who Dr. Michael Luther King Jr. is, why he is the first.
 first African American to have a national holiday on January 15th. This year will be about education, training, jobs, black on black crime and domestic violence. We can't wait for somebody else to talk about our history. We got to start talking about our history ourselves. When other people talk about their history, they come off as being patriotic. When other people talk about their history, they come off as European explorer. But when black people do it, they are labeled militants, they are called rebels, they are called Afrocentric.
 That's a big difference. Our history for some reason seems to have become offensive. I realized that they were going out of their way to omit certain facts pertaining to the African American presence. I knew right then and there that I had to do something instead of waiting for someone else to tell our story. So we have to stop being afraid to tell what our true history are. African American ethnic group is deeply divided. Until we start working together, we will never be able to achieve our goal for better education jobs,
 safety and training. Now I want to talk about this opium that's been going on in our community for decades. Not too long ago, 60 Minutes did a special opium, why by Congress passed a law freeing up the prescription drugs. And when the white privilege started to overdose on these prescription drugs, now it's in national news. In the hood, it's in the
 People have been dying for years. Back in the days when former President Nixon declared war on drugs during the 70s, then President Ronald Reagan got up and got in office during the 80s. He took it to an all-new level. It was never a war on drugs. The war always been on us.
 We hate the fact that some white people see African Americans as their pets or property. Let's talk about the American flag. It's supposed to represent all Americans, not just the military. Let's look at the military service for segregation. It was segregated up until World War II.
 The Civil War was not fought to free the slaves, but to save the Union. During the Civil Rights Day, I was just as shortly back then during the riots of the 50s, 60s, and 70s, the police and military was used against us. More than 99% of the police shootings of African Americans, the police have won the case. Thank you, John. Okay. Next up this evening, I believe Alderman Mogman may have a special message for us.
 Late over a portion of the meeting, I move to convene and to close session in order to discuss pending litigation matters and labor negotiation matters. We have a motion and a second. Is there a discussion?
 before you called on Alderman Logerman. I know it's not on the agenda, but because of the time of the month, and tell me if we meet again, would it be possible to give an announcement about a community meeting in the 10th Ward? So, with January being Human Trafficking Month,
 We're holding a public forum on January 18th, that's Thursday, at 530 at the First Evangelical Covenant Church. And I'm going to just, in just time, ask the clerk to please hand out one of these flyers so each of you will know what's going to happen, but I would want the media to pick that up as well. So thank you very much, sir. Yeah, thank you. So we have a motion and a second, no discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Thank you.