of all who are concerned. Lord, we pray also that you'd be with our fire and police department, Lord, as they protect the city from fire and police as they take care of the streets and try and keep citizens safe from any harm and danger. We ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name, amen. Amen. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Excuse me. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Getsis. Here. McNamara. Here. Hervey. Here. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Here. Veach. Here. Elliott. Beck. McNeely. Here.
 Chair really 12 present. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum their motion to accept the journal December 19th moved in second except the journal of December 19th as there any amendments or changes here none all those in favor of accepting the journal policing from the saying I was no I said thank you we have several speakers sign up for public participation this evening or minor speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber.
 You have three minutes to make their comments. If you start going over your time, I will ask you to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 25th verse, the psalmist said, I was young, but now I'm old. I've never seen the righteous forsaken or a seed begging for bread. God take care of his children. What I want to speak about tonight, Dr. King dreamed a dream deferred.
 Dr. King dreamed of the day that African Americans would enjoy full measure of freedom. However, he knew that we would not enjoy full measure of freedom until we gained economic empowerment. The last speech that he gave before his assassination
 in Memphis, Tennessee on April 4, 1968, dealt with the subject of the necessity of African American economic empowerment. Many of the major corporations that he challenged would take out full-page ads commemorating Dr. King and his dream, and on the other hand, would deny any business opportunity or shelf space to African American business interests.
 I believe that Dr. King would be greatly disturbed if he were to return to see nearly all of the business in the African American community being run by everyone to the exclusion of the black people that live there. If you but look to the business in all the ethnic communities, these businesses reflect the people that live there.
 This holds true for every community except the African American community. Well, the opposite is true. It would sadden Dr. King to see a large percentage of major retailers who are strategically located in the African American community and supported almost exclusively by African American consumer dollars routinely deny any business opportunity or shelf space whatsoever to African American businesses.
 It would move Dr. King to tears if he were to return and see African American and Hispanic young men brutalizing, killing each other at an alarming rate. African Americans and Hispanics occupied the lowest rung on the economic ladder. And I am convinced that these young men involved themselves in acts of crime and violence because of the overall poor economic condition that exists in their communities and translate to their homes. When they can't find a job,
 and basic economic necessity and other needs at home. They seek these basic resources through the gangs and in the streets without question. There's a direct correlation between economic empowerment and the quality of life. If we would but empower and change the economic landscape in the African American and Hispanic communities, the social problems, the crime, the killing, the violence would stop. There will be many celebrations commemorate Dr. King's birthday as there should be. I
 that those who celebrate and commemorate this man of greatness will begin and renew the fight to make Dr. King's dream of justice and equality and freedom a reality. To paraphrase him, as he began on his long journey for freedom for an oppressed people that began August 31, 1955 in Montgomery when he spoke
 the words of Amos from the Old Testament. Let justice roll down like water and righteousness like a mighty stream. Then finally, Dr. King's dream will be a dream fulfilled. And also, I didn't forget my friend last week, Ms. Pamela, but happy belated birthday and I wish you many more. And God bless you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brown.
 Happy New Year. Good evening, Mayor Marcy. In your final terms, all the men and all the women and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. James chapter verses 14 through 26, the New King James verses say, What does it profit, my brethren, if someone say he have faith but does not have work? Can faith save him? Thus also faith by itself does not have work,
 but someone would say you have faith and I have work. Show me your faith without your work, and I will show you my faith by my work. This is the new world order that's coming to the White House. He's already been rolled. What part did you not hear him put down the 17 intel experts? The strange thing is,
 He talked about the elections being rigged and what he was going to do if he did not win before the November election during the spring and summer of 2016. President-elect Donald Trump is skeptical of the intelligent community's finding on the Russian election and interfere by having raised fear among experts that Russia, Trump would bypass intel analysis and demand that his personal team conduct its own analysis and raw data.
 So there are a lot of people out there who don't want Donald Trump to be the President of the United States. Maybe that's because he lost the vote by more than 2.5 million in the elected vote, but he won the electoral vote by 307,000. Now, a lot of people feel that their vote does not count. That's not true. Come down to the local election,
 Your vote do count right here in Rockford. I'm running for the Third Ward Alderman. There are two other people that are running for Third Ward, the Tom McInerney office. Nevertheless, he's running for mayor. I actually have been around where these two individuals come from, where were they at before the election was going on, and what do they have to offer?
 I'm not running because I want to run, I'm running because the people in the community want me to run and have been asking me to run for the past two years. This is what we have been doing in the community, not just talking but walking the walk. We go to the YMCA every Thursday, we take 20 to 30 kids thanks to the RHA transportation and others who help us take the youth to the YMCA. We have a great time when we came with over 40 of our youth to the Harlem Gold Travelers game.
 raised over $1,270.50 to take over 40 of our youth to the Harlem Gold Traveler. I was stunned to hear and learn that some of our youth had never heard of the Harlem Gold Traveler. Some of their parents who had heard about them had never been or seen one of their games. This was a historic day for our youth in Rockford. I also learned that some of them did not know what 9-11 was or mean. Plus what is Kwanzaa?
 I knew then and now that we have to work on teaching our youth about their history and American history. We are deeply want to thank all the sponsors that have been helping Renewal Turning Point program reach out to our at-risk youth. This is what we are planning on doing this Tuesday, January.
 The 10th, we have a Peace and Love Valley meeting at Fairgrounds Community Center. Wednesday, we're going to Mount Zion Church. Thursday, we're going to the YMCA. Friday through Monday, Rockford Minister Fellowship is having a King's Day celebration. Plus, on Saturday, the 13th annual Martin Luther King Jr. Scholarship Breakfast at the Radisson Hotel. We'll be going to all these different events. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. All right. Thank you. Thank you.
 Our next speaker is Nancy Godowski. Happy New Year everybody. It is my understanding the City of Rockford has a budget shortage of $5 million. Property taxes have skyrocketed to the point we are in the top five nationwide and highest property taxes. We have moved certain services such as street sweeping off property taxes and added it to the garbage fee, but we didn't see a reduction in our property taxes.
 Speaking of fees, this body has raised our water fees to pay for water main improvements. But this body introduced a referendum for a 1% infrastructure sales tax. Constituents voted for this under the premise they were going to get more roads fixed and take care of water mains. Instead, we have used this money for wants and not needs.
 We didn't need the $10 million bridge to nowhere. We didn't need the $10 million main Auburn roundabout, which has produced three times the number of accidents since its inception. We also used this tax for a 36% pay hike for the mayor. When did a mayor become a piece of infrastructure?
 We squandered this money and now again we are $5 million in the hole. Adding insult to injury, you took away our streetlights to save money and crime is now out of control. In the past, you have forgiven millions of dollars in city loans to politically connected families. Now you are getting ready to forgive a loan for a non-for-profit organization but let them keep their business anyway. You are also getting ready to extend their loan on another business.
 Obviously, they are not a good risk at this time, and the city cannot afford it at this time. Where are you going to get this money to forgive loans and extend loans? Your budget doesn't balance, but you are giving away taxpayers' money. Again, you are asking taxpayers to carry the burden with higher property taxes, more sales tax and higher fees.
 You take away our street lights, don't improve our streets, and still bond out. Remember, bonds are bad, and that is why you wanted an infrastructure sales tax. Now you want to impose a utility tax on us to cover your sloppy finances.
 When is this bait and switch policy going to end? Why don't you listen to the residents who actually live in Rockford's neighborhoods to hear what they need, not what the administration wants? Our needs are very simple. We just want excellent basic city services, police, fire, public works, water and sewer, and streetlights. Rockford's population keeps dropping. I wonder why. Happy New Year.
 I've been pastor at Zion Lutheran Church for seven years, continuing the legacy of Pastor Denver Bittner, who's here, and the community of Zion Lutheran Church that has invested since it sold its property in 1982 near the corner of Spring Creek and Mulford, the eight acres, and committed itself to being in the city.
 As a pastor at Zion Lutheran Church, we have the legacy of building up programs that enrich and change lives. Zion's helped create Patriot's Gateway Center, Katie's Cup Coffee Bar, the Zion Outreach Literacy Program, Zion Outreach Black Hawk Farm and Gardens Program in partnership with RHA and Angelic Organic Learning Center, and Zion Development. As a part of Zion Development and all of our Zion partners,
 Zion Lutheran Church and its partners have invested over $60 million since 1982 when it committed itself to being involved in the city. And so as we think about Zion development tonight, I'd like to encourage you to consider supporting the Longwood Gardens proposal this evening.
 As we think about the loan that we leveraged, 12 to 1 investment for the Longwood program, Zion's proposal is simply today to ask for an extension of the current loan for two years so Zion has time to determine the best course of action and to implement it. The financing for projects such as this is often complicated and difficult. The option for Zion faces simply is to reinvest in the property so the building is improved physically as well as financially or sell it.
 There are very few other options. When Zion Development developed the Longwood program and the wellness program, it saved the city and our taxes hundreds of thousands of dollars. Next week, I understand the Planning and Development Committee will be investing into revisiting the request to forgive the TIF loan on 5-28-7th.
 I also ask that you support this proposal as it allows Zion to bring a new tenant into Midtown. Zion's already in discussion with a party that's willing to rent the commercial space, but the loan forgiveness is vital for us to obtain private financing to build out the space.
 The conditions placed on the loan forgiveness protect the city from simply handing out forgiveness without successful development of our first floor commercial space. Zion has successfully filled half the development of the occupied spaces on 7th Avenue between 4th and 5th Avenue. This would eliminate another vacant space of commercial district. This is only the second time Zion has asked and the other time that was not carried out because conditions were not met.
 Zion's been instrumental in the success that's occurred in Midtown. Zion has partnered with the city and United Way for two strong neighborhood houses, including the house on 8th Avenue and Irving Avenue. In addition, Zion is committed to being a member of the Rockford Community Partners. Zion Development is a nonprofit, yet we still continue to pay our share of property taxes on all the properties that it owns, with the one exception of the strong neighborhood house that's run by the police department and United Way.
 As a former chaplain of the Rockford Police and Fire Department, you continue to be in our prayers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Thomas, and thank you to all of our speakers. Petitions and communications. All McConnell.
 I have a memorandum from Nora Doyle, Legal Department, regarding Rockford Metropolitan Area Planning Agency, our MAP report, referred to the Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. That will be referred. Alden Shirelli. Thank you.
 Three items tonight. The first is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on January 11, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Code and Regulations meeting on January 17, 2017. The next two items are Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda and the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on January 17, 2017.
 January 19th, 2017 and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on January 30th, 2017. All three of those items will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you, matters will be referred. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director regarding Head Start program governance.
 review of documents and I also have a memorandum from Angela Hammer, Assistant City Attorney regarding approval of funding in the amount of $4,956 pursuant to the 1986 Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement for Assessment Complaint Intervention. Both these items will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you, matters will be referred. We have no proclamations this evening, so we'll move on to committee reports.
 All in McConnell? It doesn't matter. We can just tell them we got the number in. Okay. I have three items to suspend the rules on for planning and development. I'd like to place these up for passage. Second. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on enrollment number 5A, items 1, 2, and 3. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended.
 I like 5 a one is committee recommends approval of the Rockford community partners 2017 budget request and work plan the interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Roman numeral 5A2, committee recommends approval of intergovernment agreement with Winnebago County Health Department for lead clearance inspections. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And 5A3, I move to amend the committee report under Roman numeral 5A2,
 A, for planning development to reflect the approval of the request by Zion Development Corporation for a two-year mortgage extension for property located at 1055 East State Street, Longwood Gardens. There's been a motion and second to amend Roman numeral 5A3 to read that it would be...
 Reflect approval of the request by Zion development corporation for a two-year mortgage extension for property located at 1035 East State Street Longwood Gardens is their discussion on that proposed amendment to Roman all 5a 3 hearing none all those in favor of the amendment please signify by saying aye aye Opposed no eyes have it and it will be amended any other amendments on the other two items all the men herby Oh not amendment. I just have a oh go ahead just a comment on a
 I'm not going to hold it up, but I just wanted to indicate I have not discussed SWIFT's plan with them, and I think there may have been some miscommunication because of what my schedule used to be and what it is now. So I would ask that I have the opportunity to confirm that plan, given that we've started on the South Main implementation. I want to make sure we're on the same page.
 with that and just ask the disbursement of those funds be just postponed until we have a chance to ensure that that gets done. Mr. Cagnoni, assuming this passes tonight, any problems with Alderman Hervey's request? Could you meet with her to discuss that? We'd be happy to accommodate that request and coordinate the meeting with such. Thank you. Thank you. And for the discussion on the items, it's 5A1 and 2 and 3 as amended.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just want to reiterate my concern regarding the Rector Community Partners. And I've talked with Director Cagnoni regarding for next year so that we will be working on that and not having the concerns that we ran into this year as well as previous years. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Just one thing I did want to, and thank you, Alderman McNeely. I did have a couple of notes on that. And one is to ask, there have been several different proposals that came forward. One is that there be some kind of open, like a grant,
 operating it like a grant proposal. The second we had talked about several years ago, I think Dr. Durkee had requested that we start to look at diminishing funding so that new groups could be brought in and developed. So I'd like to see a plan for that, maybe some kind of
 base funding for operations for ongoing programs that some of the stable neighborhood groups, Swift, Midtown, River District, some things that they do each year that has sort of been incorporated into city events. But at the same time,
 providing that support to teach those groups grant writing, helping them find grants and other ways to become self-sufficient and sustainable. So I would ask that the staff look at those, maybe some of those outlines,
 That's not my forte, but I believe there's some other people here who probably be good at that. I would just suggest, for anybody who's interested in those items, again, assuming this passes as it's presented tonight,
 to follow up with staff. Obviously I'm a short timer, I hope you're around. But just, I expect a lot of our staff will still be around. Just to make sure that the items get picked up and don't get, what tends to happen is we get busy on other things and then we remember it a year from now. So good suggestions, I just would suggest that council members follow up directly with staff afterwards.
 Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. I just ask my fellow council members to support item 5A3. Zion Development has been a mainstay and a catalyst for development in Midtown, not just through their development efforts or their literacy efforts, but also their work with low-income seniors, as well as more recently their investments in education.
 partnership in our strong neighborhood houses, not just in that area, but at 8th Avenue, but also on Irving. So I'd recommend strong support for the Zion Development Corporation two-year extension.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I certainly appreciate all of the aldermen that are in support of Zion development. And my no vote certainly is not an indication that I don't support Zion development. I do support what they're doing. It's just quite obvious to me that perhaps in these particular two situations,
 the two real estates, perhaps they would be in better hands with someone else other than Zion Development. Thank you. Alderman Neuber. Thank you. The one concern I have about the Zion Development Corporation, the East State property, is with an extension of two years, what happens if that property is sold? Do we have any recourse if that property is sold? Ms. Cagnone? Yes.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We hold a mortgage against the property, so if it was sold, we'd be paid. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Thank you. I want to thank Executive Director Zayin for speaking with me in regards to this. I did express my concern for the failure of the agreements that we've had in several of the agreements. I also understand the investment that Zayin has made into this community, and I also understand the fact that they do pay taxes.
 take a long time to pay up to $180,000 worth of taxes. But it has been a direct benefit to the community and the individuals that it has served in this community. It's patrons' gateway with the children and the activities that take place there. But I did make it very clear to them that this is the last time you're coming back to the well that I will support. Thank you. Any other discussion on the items?
 So up for passage is Roman numeral 5A1 and 2 and 5A3 as amended. Clerk, please call the roll. Yes, Jess. Aye. McNamara. Abstain. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. No one. Item 1? Yes, on item 2 and 3. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. McNeely. Chiarelli. Item number 1? No.
 10 ayes, 2 noes, 1 abstain. Item number 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 noe. Matters all passed. Thank you. Alderman Shrelle. I move to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5B, 1 through 4. Thank you. There's been a motion. Second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5B, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Your Honor, I put up for passage Roman numeral 5B, 1 through 4. Matters after passage is their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Betches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Matters all passed. Thank you. Thank you. Call them back.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Items under Roman numeral 3, I'm sorry, Roman numeral 5, C1 through 4, I ask for suspension of rules. Second. Been a motion, second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5, C items 1, 2, 3, and 4. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. May I place them up for passage? Matters are up for passage as they are discussion. Alderman Hervey. I would...
 I am in support of item two, if the alderman was in support of that. One thing we had talked about that I would ask that staff develop is for projects like this that are going to go longer than six months for the redevelopment that we have some kind of financial or proof of financial capability.
 I know we don't actually forgive the fine reduction until they do the work, but then we've had a problem property sitting there again for a year with no action. And that kind of bothers me because that sounds like the person's financially tight. But I'd just like to see some kind of proof or schedule that they have the financial wherewithal. Thank you. Mr. Cagnoni, could you follow up on that suggestion? Yes, sir. All right, thank you.
 Any additional discussion on any of those items? Alderman, back to Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. Just on item two for 1231 North Main, I'm in support. I'd also like to thank Thaddeus Mack for the work that he's done on this. I just want to make sure that staff is continually monitoring this property because it has some potential to be a
 beneficial property to the neighborhood. It's an entryway there right off of Maine, but it's had a whole host of issues over the years, and I'm hopeful that these folks will reinvest in the property as they state they will, and I'm willing to give that opportunity. But as Alderman Hervey said, we really have to monitor this one. Thank you. Any further discussion on any of those items? If not, clerk, please call the roll. Roll number 5C, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. Gets us. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye.
 Panel. Thompson, Kelly. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Tovai, Your Honor. Thank you. The matter is all passed. Officers, reports. I just have a brief officer's report this evening. Let's see. In the back of the council chamber, I'd invite Winnebago County, our newly elected
 elected and sitting chairman, Frank Haney, please come forward. Chairman Haney is a guest of mine this evening and he just wanted to give a brief hello to the City Council and a few other remarks and then I'll just have one other comment after that. I'll do you a big favor and I'll be very brief here.
 You know, after a very long campaign, I made a promise to my board a couple things. I want to work in partnership with them. The unique thing about county government is there's all these electeds inside the government, like your sheriff, your chief judge, your state's attorney. It's very important to me to work together in partnership with them as well
 But the third group and the reason I'm here tonight is to make it very clear to Mayor Morrissey in his closing months as Mayor and then each of you as Alderman that it's very important for me to work together with you. I want to make sure that a year or two from now that we, you can hold me to that. One of the things I talked about over the last few months is this thing called our ACT
 And I say this and people roll their eyes when I say it, but I'm deeply, deeply committed to it, is I want Winnebago County government to be the most accountable, collaborative, and transparent unit of government in the state of Illinois. And to the peace on collaboration, I don't want to fight old fights. I know that 1% disagreement should not make us 100% enemies.
 I don't think that because I got elected that I'm the first person to show up and try to do something good. The guy I followed did some good things, and a lot of them. And I respect that, and we're going to build on them while we also make some changes. And I think that our next mayor is going to be faced with the same thing, is you're going to build on some good things and you're then going to do some things you want to do differently. And that's okay. Okay.
 but I wanted to come here. I do consider many of the people in this room friends but I think that when we're sitting here a year or two from now we need to move the needle on a few things. None of us are happy about
 crime. My wife is a teacher here in town and she called me crying today because there was a gunshot that went through a car right next to hers coming out of school today. Deeply concerning and we have to have some very tough conversations. Economic development, nothing great is going to be accomplished in silos. We know this.
 You know, we look at other things, community health, we look at education. We got some significant opportunities, and I'm excited about that. And all of the people you serve, you know, I serve too.
 And I do think we have a county board that as I'm getting to know them and they're getting to know me, there's a lot of alignment there and I'm working with some good people. And I want you to know that I see that and I think that we have a board that wants to work with our councils, our mayors, not just in Rockford but around the county.
 I'm convinced of it. And again, I want to make sure that a year or two from now, after we've had an opportunity to come together on some things, to disagree on some things that we agree that we're aligned and we're trying to get through this to serve the people that we serve. And I am committed to that.
 It is an honor to be here tonight. It's an honor to serve as chairman, but it's an honor to be here with friends. So thank you very much. God bless the work you do, and I look forward to serving with you. And Mayor Morrissey, I want to thank him. He's invited me up to talk about some issues. I do want to give him a shout-out. You know, he has a few months to go, but he wants to get some things done, and I appreciate that.
 and I like that we're talking and talking about some big things. One thing in closing, there's been discussion a little bit on consolidation.
 Let's just get this out here right away. This is not code. I'm not sneaking up on anybody. This is not saying consolidation or talking about sharing resources or being more efficient in government resources means a particular program or means metro policing. One of the things I'm the most impressed about and I want to follow as a new chairman is the way I see our sheriff and our chief working together.
 This isn't a trick. That said, unless you guys want to lend the county about five million dollars, we could use some. I know you guys have a tight budget. If there's some areas where we can share resources, where we can work together through an IGA
 to find a way to better serve the people we serve, I'm open to it. And it doesn't mean the county taken always either. So let's put it on the table and talk through some of this stuff. And, again, it's an honor to be with you, and I look forward to seeing a whole bunch more of you in the future. And, Mayor, thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, Chairman Haney, for joining us tonight, and we do look forward to a lot of great conversations.
 I just also wanted to mention that we have a short executive session that is planned for the end of council. Alderman Beck will be reading in a referral later on. Thank you. For the officer's reports, Alderman McNeely. I don't have a report to file, but I would like to go back to item number 5B, number 3. I wanted to vote no on that and not yes. Yes.
 I just want to make sure I understood what you just said. You wanted to reflect a no vote for which item? 5B, number 3. Program number 5B, item 3. Clerk, could you record that? Thank you very much. Thank you. Officers' reports. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Couple things I want to mention. Monday, of course, is Martin Luther King Day, the day we set aside to observe his legacy. The Rockford Ministers Fellowship, and by the way, I know there are a number of organizations that have programs going on. I don't know if the city has some of those posted on our website, or if, I didn't see Ms. Bruce, if we could possibly do that, because...
 a number of groups have them. But there are four items that the clergy are sponsoring and they do some of these in collaboration with the larger clergy group in Rockford. On January 13th there's a clergy luncheon at noon at Court Street United Methodist Church. On the 14th there's the annual musical and that's going to be at St. Paul Church of God in Christ at 7 p.m.
 On the 15th, there is a religious worship service at 7 p.m. at St. Luke Missionary Baptist Church. I believe that's on Reed Avenue? 19th. Okay, 19th. And then on January 16th, what we call the citywide or the community celebration is going to be at 10 a.m. at Emmanuel Lutheran Church. So I certainly, if we can get this posted...
 so that people can see it, that would be great. So those four events going on. Our council clerk can get that and then get a copy up to my office. We'll make sure Ms. Bruce gets it. Scholarship is that Saturday? Scholarship breakfast is that Saturday. That is the 14th, and I guess it's at the Radisson this year. And that's sponsored by Alpha Phi Alpha.
 at 9 a.m. I believe tickets are $20 or $25. $30,000.
 30 at the door, I wouldn't recommend the door. It's usually packed. It's a bigger venue this year. It used to be at Rockford College. But it's fantastic. They do an oratorical thing where the young men receiving the awards have to speak on a topic. And if you ever get depressed about some of the crime and youth and gangs and drugs and guns and everything else, go to this event and it will renew your faith in our youth. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. Just to note that the Northwest United Neighbors will not have a meeting tomorrow night. We are not having a meeting in January. Our next scheduled meeting is February 14th. Thank you. Further officers' reports?
 Thank you, Your Honor. This past week we had the dedication and the opening of a new District 3 police headquarters and I wanted to thank the City Council again for their hard work during that trying time with negotiations and debate about opening up these police stations. It was a wonderful dedication. They had great speakers. Our City Administrator Jim Ryan did a wonderful job. Our Police Chief did a great job as always and other people.
 that were present, so I wanted to say thank you to everybody and welcome to the community. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry I wasn't able to be there, but I did hear that everybody did a great job and it was a great event, so congratulations. We've got two more coming up that we'll be able to celebrate in. Thank you. Further officers' reports, motions and resolutions. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 7, items 1 through 8, I will place those up for passage.
 From number 7C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 are up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Ketchus. McNamara. Aye. Kirby. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. That is all passed. Thank you. From number 8, new business. Aye.
 all in common I took us suspension of rules for so for which items were Roman numeral eight item under a one two and three are placed at the passage of will take the motion for suspension rules first and there's a second on that I think all of the beach
 From numeral 8A, items 1, 2, and 3 have been moved and seconded for suspension of the rules. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. Matters that are for passage. I'd like to place them for passage. Matters that are for passage is their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Duchess. Thank you, Mayor. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Aye. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly no one item one I two and three Odo you birth each Ellier back all right make me Lee Here really Item number one ten eyes One no one abstain item number two eleven eyes one no item number three Twelve eyes as I'll pass. Thank you. I
 I'll make sure I think your honor Roman numeral B one through five. I moved to suspend the rules. Thank you. This is a Roman numeral eight. Sorry. Eight. Yep. Eight B and one, two, three, four and five.
 In a motion and second to suspend the rules, all those in favor please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have, the rule will be suspended. Thank you your honor, I place those items up for passage. The items are then up for passage, is there discussion? None, clerk please call the roll. Gatchas, McNamara, Irving, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Ellier, Beck, Aye. McNeely, No on three and five, aye. Chiarelli, Aye.
 and it was number one two four twelve eyes item number three eleven eyes one no item number five eight eyes four notes matters all passed thank you thank you i'm sorry i thought you read number five back again item number five is eight eyes four nose eight eyes four nose yes uh just ask our parliamentarian to confirm that yes mr partridge if you can is that accurate
 I believe so, Your Honor. I believe it is as well. You need 10 votes for a reversal of the ZBA, two-thirds. That's correct. So if there's no additional information of the chair, the chair would amend his ruling before and find that it fails. So items 8B, 1, 2, 3, and 4 pass. 8B5 fails. Ellen Beck. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Ruling number 8C, items 1 and 2, I ask for suspension of rules. Then a motion to suspend the rules on Ruling 8C, items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. I place them up for passage. Matters are up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Getches, McNamara, Herbie, Connell, Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck. Aye. McNeely, Chiarelli. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Matters passed, thank you. Alderman Beck. Yes, Your Honor, I would move that we go into executive session for a personnel issue. So second. There's been a motion and second to go into closed session for the purposes of discussing a personnel matter. Is there any discussion on the motion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Yes, sir.
 McNamara, Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 12 ayes, Your Honor. The motion carries. We will go into closed session, take a recess for the purposes of discussing a personnel matter. Thank you.