Let us pray. Almighty and ever-present God, we, the great people of Rockford, have gathered together in your presence to say thank you so much for the many blessings and the things that you've done for our fair city. And so now we ask that you will invoke your presence and invoke your influence on the decisions, the thoughts, and the words that we share with one another as the men and women of this great city.
 represent not only themselves but the community in which they represent. I pray, O Lord, that your words and your spirit will be reflected in their decisions because you are a God of love. Unite us in love and keep us in unity and bless this time together. This we ask in the name of the one who came, lived, and died for us, Jesus Christ. Amen. I'll be going to the stage tonight. To the Republic for which it stands. It is the Lord who perfected you and blessed you. Thank you.
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Betches, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelly, Beach, McNeely, Chiarelli. Call the president, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal? There's been a motion and a second to accept the journal. Are there any amendments or changes to the journal? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, a aye. The journal will be accepted. No public hearings scheduled for this evening.
 We do have, I believe, speakers signed up for public participation, or no? Mr. Hayes, I don't have a list tonight. We have several speakers signed up for public participation. Just as a reminder to our speakers, our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. If your time goes up, you will hear a beep out of my timer here, and I will ask you to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Flossie Porte.
 Good evening to our Mayor Larry Morrissey and to the other dignitaries, city council members, and all who make up this congregation. I'm here to speak on the flight, the condition of the African American male in this city. As I was listening to the minister pastor in his prayer,
 He alluded to the fact that we people of God love each other. And genuine, I think he was trying to say, should care about each other. I would dare to say if the number of young males that's being killed each year in Rockford was of another race, Caucasian or Hispanic, that would be an uproar in this city. Any time that the United States has the capability,
 to go over to another country and find a fugitive in a manhole because of his violent acts and ways and make sure he's held to the legal expectation under the law. Anytime the United States allows citizens from other countries to come over and they commit violent crime and they have the capability to track them down, finding out where they're getting their weapon, where they live, what they eat, it puzzles me why we...
 as community people and citizens in this city cannot find out what's happened to African American males, why they're dying before they time. I'm here to say that there's a direct correlation between education, social, economic, and the home. I say again, is the home responsible or should I say is the city responsible for all of it?
 No, it's not. Is the Rockford Public Schools responsible for all of it? No, they're not. But they have a great influence on what the end result. I would like to know from anyone that's able to share, what do you expect to do in 2016 different from 2015 to stop the unnecessary violence and the young African-American dying before his time? Is there a correlation between education, jobs, homes?
 Or do we just call these young boys thugs?
 that they would drop out. Couldn't nobody do nothing with them. And we count them off as a minister of society. I beg the difference. The minister said that we people of God ought to love each other. I can't see why African American boys are not being successful like other young boys. Do that mean that all of them will take advantage of it? No, it does not. It means that a lot of times when you do the best you can, they're going to choose to do otherwise. But I fail to believe in my heart that all these young boys, 17, dying, 12,
 20 something, 15 and 16 dying 20 something black males dying before they time each year in this city and we have not called a massive meeting for community leaders to come together I would please ask this city to think about the God that you say you love can you actually say you love him and you watch these young boys dying like this? I don't think so thank you our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 22nd chapter, first verse, Solomon says, A good name is better than riches. To be a sting is better than silver or gold. What I want to speak about tonight, Rockford, is a gold mine. A question I want to ask you, Auburn Beach, how many months in a year? It's 12, right? Recess is over with now. School is in session.
 I'm going to name your 12 resources that you have. Your first resource are your people. You are known as the inventors of the Midwest. 90% of the people in Rockwell are Meccano inclined. The only thing you have to do is market your skilled workforce. Your second resource, you specialize in manufacturing. I call it the king of all industry. It got us out of the Great Depression. Your third resource is the tourist industry. I call it the queen of all industry. The tourist industry,
 Routed in Illinois, $32,576,325,415 in Nassau in 2015. Your fourth resource is the Rockford Airport. Your fifth resource is Rockford Mass Transit. If you let the bus run 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, fix and flex rough, you could bring in Rockford $29,575,000.
 $125.80 in one year. Your sixth resource is the UPS Hub. Your seventh resource is the BMO Center. Your eighth resource is Memorial Hall. Your ninth resource is the Burfess Center. Your tenth resource is the library downtown. Have the library open from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Have educational programs to entertain. Your eleventh resource is the Coronado Theater. Your twelfth resource, open a bingo parlor downtown so people can come downtown. This would help generate more revenue.
 If you use these 12 ideas of mine, you can bring in a rock of $3,375,450,215.88 in one year. Enough money to keep your budget balanced. Enough money to help eliminate homeless. Enough money to help reduce poverty. Enough money to help reduce unemployment. Enough money to help reduce crime. Enough money to help save every young man or girl.
 college, that graduated from high school. I'm tired of hearing about people in China work. I'm tired of hearing about people in India work. I'm tired of hearing about people in Mexico work. I'm tired of hearing about robots work. I want to hear about the people in Rockford working. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Roland Poska. I haven't started yet. Well, thank you. I didn't think I would have to be giving the same speech again. You really don't have to lawyer up
 to do the impossible. You don't have to lawyer up to achieve respect for all. You don't have to lawyer up to end violence. You don't have to lawyer up to end prejudice. You don't have to lawyer up to expand thinking. You don't have to lawyer up to expand the money supply. You don't have to lawyer up to share a feeling.
 you don't have to lawyer up to end war. To be honest with you, I saw a lot of people in City Hall today who I feel were not stupid enough to do the impossible. And to gauge stupidity, I actually thought that Rockford could lead the world. If Rockford lawyers up and wastes money, I think I might have to leave Rockford. You don't have to lawyer up.
 If I really did believe that Rockford could lead the world, I really did believe it. Is that stupid or what? I am the stupidest fishy whale on the planet because I believe that. I still do, unfortunately. Unlike those people who are wasting our money and lawyering up. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Thank you.
 Me and Starr Cowling are gonna have it. Alright, good.
 Good evening there Marcie, Aldoans, Aldoans, and Rockville citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Proverbs 28 verse 13 says, It is human nature to hide our sins or overlook our mistakes, but it is hard to learn from a mistake if you don't acknowledge making it. Proverbs 27 and 28 highlight seven benefits of keeping quiet. It's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say.
 It gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something very important to say. Before President Abraham Lincoln was assassinated, we was promised 40 acres and a mule.
 Then the Ku Klux Klan and other law enforcement, the Jim Crow law came along and stopped all that. That was 151 years ago. Michael Luther King Jr. came to Chicago in 1966. On that muggy Friday afternoon, Michael Luther King and 700 of us, and I was a youth at that time,
 We were the vanguard during this march for better housing in Chicago, Illinois. So Fair Housing Act was passed in 1968. It was re-emigrated in 1991. This is one of the biggest reasons why a lot of people watched and saw what happened after they tore down Jane Addams and gave the family members vouchers
 to move wherever they wanted to move at. Well, we saw how that turned out. Some of the family members moved to the 9th neighborhood and they brought total hell to that area. Plus, when they did rebuild Jane Allyn, R.A. Jane did not let anybody move into Jane Allyn because the Strong Neighborhood Watch Group was talking and watching very closely who was going to move into the new neighborhood. Now, you do not hear or see anything about
 any of the above negative activity at Jane Addams. Now because of the strong uproar from Newtown residents and the community, I have no doubt that RHA is gonna take a strong look at who will be able to move into the Newtown housing area and who will not be able to move into the Newtown area. By the way, there will be a police station that will be set out that way.
 And now, I'm going to, this is going to get me in hot water, but I don't care because I don't fear, man, I'll always speak the truth. We have a group that is working, and we were speaking about Project Ellis Heights Choice Neighborhood. Three years ago, RHA spent over $1,000 on a choice neighborhood proposal.
 There were a lot of good ideas and plans that came out of that survey. The only problem was that RHA workers that were working on the plan, most of them are gone and to other jobs. RHA hadn't been working together. If RHA had been working together with West Gateway Coalition,
 peace in that battle is a search you have to do we will not be having this problem that we are having to date there are a lot of good and great idea to come out of that survey and we have been trying to put them into play like the work that we had what you start doing that the salvation army on kilburn street and the newly formed mount zion church neighborhood association but three years ago we should have been working on this family that live in the new town and let them know that the family that live in fairgrounds
 will not anybody be moving into the Newtown area. Just by working with families on life skills, education, training, and jobs, we'll be able to work together and live together. And if you take the $60,000 that you want to pay for a law firm, why not bless the Salvation Army on Kilimanjaro Street, and we can show you, put those funds to good work and use in the community and helping us move on.
 thank you for letting me speak and i just want to finish by saying this i won my court case and and us at the downtown and it's sad that i'm representing people and rha that's been evicted or been accused of possibly being accused but we have never lost the ballot and the lies that was told on us today we won that court case and we should be able to work with our rha administration and not not they're working against us thank you
 Thank you, Ms. Brantley. Our last speaker is Carrie Humphrey.
 My name is Carrie Humphrey. I've lived in the Rockford area my whole life. There was a time when I lived here without much fear, but the city's becoming more and more dangerous, and it seems that the city government is either just ignoring it or doesn't care. I see the slogan, excellence everywhere, and instead, it's crime everywhere. According to city data, Rockford has 290 police officers. That's less than two officers per thousand residents. Chicago has over four per thousand and has a lower crime rate than Rockford. Practically everywhere has a lower crime rate than Rockford.
 Most Midwestern cities have over three officers per thousand residents. Think that us having less than two might be contributing to our crime problem? Who's working on getting more cops for this crime-ridden city? We've skyrocketed to number two most crime-ridden city in the whole country under our mayor's watch.
 Rockford's crime rate is more than double the national average for 100,000 citizens in every category, and more than triple the national average in assaults, which includes all of those non-fatal shootings that you constantly hear about in the news here in Rockford. It wasn't that long ago that city government was increasing sales taxes for that beautiful new jail, and we were told by city government that that was going to reduce crime. Has it, though? The citizens will tell you a resounding no. The Wreck-It Roundabout is a disaster. Fort.
 14 times more accidents than before. Are people using the bridge to nowhere or the bus station to nowhere? No. That's millions wasted, millions. And now you can't afford streetlights? So, at the end of it all, we have high taxes and we're not even getting basic services. A few years ago, you decided to take out thousands of streetlights, except for Alderman Linda McNeely, who I'd like to thank for voting against it.
 I protested it then, and here streetlights are on the chopping block yet again. Didn't you learn the first time? We weren't even in the top ten most dangerous cities when you did that. Now we're number two.
 What is it going to take to get our city government to start prioritizing safety? What do you want to become number one in the nation in crime? Other cities that have taken out streetlights, such as Oakland, California, have seen crime increase also, and their police department has attributed it to taking out the streetlights. No one is going to want to come here and stay at the Amarok Hotel when we become number one in the nation in crime. I think we can all agree that it will benefit everyone for you to start prioritizing safety.
 I hope that all of the citizens of this city watch the streetlight vote very closely and hold every alderman and woman who votes to remove streetlights accountable for that vote. I know I will. On the subject of Newtown, I am against the concentration of poverty. I believe that RHA should be finding a way to house people in some of Rockford's many vacant homes, fix the properties up so that everyone wins. I will not vote for the streetlight vote.
 I want our city government to start making win-wins for Rockford instead of making sure there's always a loser. We have so many empty homes. We do not need to employ an out-of-state contractor to come in here and waste money building units without garages. It costs four more times what the homes in the area worth. Sometimes I wonder what our city officials are thinking. Please start making good decisions. We are counting on you. Thank you, Ms. Humphrey. Thank you.
 Petitions and communications. Someone here for, I'm going to take the petition for Alderman Durkee. Alderman Shirelli, do you have that? Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the 2016 Rockford Community Partners Budget, Master Agreement, and Work Plan. That will be referred to the Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Matt. It will be referred. Thank you.
 Alderman Shrelin? Secondly, I have the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on January 13, 2016. That will be referred to the Traffic Commission. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beck? For Planning and Development Committee, there's a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni. You already got it.
 I don't have any of them. Thank you. Just at the start of our meeting, I want to do two quick things. Number one, I want to wish Alderman Connell a happy birthday, which I believe was yesterday. And then also just wanted to take a moment to share our thoughts and prayers for former Alderman Lenny Jacobson's family. After a courageous battle with cancer, his beloved wife Penny passed away. The funeral was this past Saturday. Thank you.
 And I know there was a lot of folks there who were supporting them. Olin Jacobson provided tremendous service and support. Penny was along him throughout the entire time, and it was a privilege to be able to get to know her and him and want to just thank them for their time and office. Again, our thoughts and prayers are with their family at this time.
 for the petitions and communications, Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Yes, Your Honor. There was a memorandum passed out in regards to planning and development from Todd to all the aldermen, and New Year's copy to you yourself. Some of the aldermen did not receive this copy of this memo, so I would request that the aldermen that did not receive it get a copy because it's going to be for discussion at budget meetings.
 I think that's in conjunction with the referral that was made tonight, Mr. Cagnone. That is correct. I had sent out an e-mail with the information as well as placed it in the alderman's box. If there was any that were missed, I'd be happy to provide additional copies. Thank you. And it should be posted to the server for our internal documents as well? Yes, it's been provided to the agenda on Thursday. Thank you. Further petitions and communications?
 Alderman McNally, did you have one? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And may I say Happy New Year to everyone. I've missed you all and certainly appreciate all the comments. I appreciate the flowers from the city on behalf of my brother. Thank you all very much. I have, and I'm not sure, Mr. Mayor, what was presented in my absence, but I have several comments.
 Petitions regarding the Newtown project. And I also have petitions regarding the annexation. Okay. All right. I just want to be able to submit these. I don't know if anyone did. Thank you. Thank you for the petitions and communications. Don't have any proclamation scheduled for this evening. We'll move on to our committee reports.
 Closing regulations, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 4B, 1, 2, and 3, I move to suspend the rules. Second. Motion, second, suspend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, seven. Thank you. Your Honor, I place those three items up for passage. Up for passage then in Roman numeral 4, new committee reports.
 Letter B, items 1, 2, and 3, those matters are up for passage and discussion. Discussion on the matters. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Duchess, McNamara, Irving, Thompson-Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli,
 Number 1 and 3, 13 ayes. Number 2, 12 ayes, 1 no. That is passed. Thank you. Thank you. Alden Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman 4C, items 1, 2, 3, the items earlier passed out of Finance and Personnel Committee. I ask for suspension of rules on those items.
 Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to amend the rules on Rule 4C, Items 1, 2, and 3. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. I place them up for passage. Matters up for passage. Usually a discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Betches, McNamara, Ross, Irving, Thompson, Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiaro, Runtu, and Green,
 Chiaralli? Aye. Items number 1, 13 ayes, number 2 and number 3, 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Matters passed. Further reports to committees? Officers reports? Just a couple items this evening. Just have two referrals this evening for board appointments
 for reappointment to the Historic Preservation Commission Mr. David Cody for a three-year term which would expire in January 2019 his resume is attached for your review and that will lay over pursuant to council rule and also for the fire pension board reappointment of Mr. Michael White to a three-year term would be expiring in January 2019
 Again, we'll lay over for council consideration. If there's questions about those appointments, please feel free to follow up with me directly or to the individuals who are up for a reappointment. Also just wanted to note there's nice coverage over the weekend by the Register Star on many of the activities that are planned and openings, hopefully, in many of our economic development projects for this year. I appreciate that support. It's a good summary of our work.
 We have a tremendous amount of work ahead and we've already suffered our first homicide of the year. I take to heart all of the concerns that our residents bring to us each and every day. Not just the mayor, I'm a citizen who lives in an area of the city that has its own challenges with crime.
 poverty, unemployment, all the same challenges that are faced by citizens on a daily basis. So I look forward to our continued work throughout this year as we address a number of challenging issues. And with the work of the council and the support of the community and our many partners, we hope to have some great successes to talk about by the end of this year. Further officers' reports? Baldwin, McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate staff putting together a...
 a good memo on the geo-policing locations and an update on it, but could we get a further update that includes the cost for each of these? I did not see the monetary figures for those, as well as what the build-out for the square footage would be for District 3. And then lastly, I was very pleased to see that...
 Staff is working to reduce the size of District 1 pretty drastically, it looked like, which I think was a big concern, not just to reduce it by square footage, but I'm hoping the cost. So if we could get the cost associated or new projections with what was outlined in the memo, I think it would be helpful.
 Certainly, I would just encourage any other questions with regard to that memo. Please feel free to follow up directly with staff, and we're happy to support additional committee conversations as would be helpful. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. On that same note, I noticed that the administration for the police department was in District 1 and been cutting back the cost in...
 size. It's great that we've brought that cost down, but now that we've moved administration over to the third District 3 rather than District 2, which I think we talked about at one of the council meetings, I just...
 I would like to be somewhat, I think the council should be somewhat more involved in these decisions of moving different departments around besides the mayor and the chief of police. So I take exception that the council is not being.
 We're given these figures, but we're just told what the decisions are. We aren't really part of the decision, but we are the ones that are going to approve the cost for this. So I would like that to be taken into consideration in the next few meetings. Just on that point, I'm happy to schedule with Council's support at the committee level an update. We bring our architects back, and I would say that from my recollection,
 the material that mr ryan provided in the update was based on the input that council gave the last time we had a public discussion on the on the items so happy to support additional conversations that would continue that same spirit of collaboration cooperation ultimately it's up to the council to approve the bonding authority and the construction so the council will have um
 opportunities for each one of the specific building construction projects and bond sale to support and provide additional input along the way. We're going to have a conversation. I don't know if next Monday is too short a time period, but happy to do it as counsel would find appropriate and be happy to follow up this week.
 to get that scheduled. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to just talk briefly about a visit I made to, with George Balrap, to the ComEd Training Center and to visit with them talking about the smart meters, which are coming to Rockford probably, what, two years ahead of schedule, which is great. A lot of us got e-mails about the dangers of smart meters and, you know, whether it was going to send radio waves.
 through our homes and things of that sort. I have concerns about privacy because these meters will collect information about usage and transmit that information. And I've just been very concerned with the degree to which our activities are monitored, tracked and recorded, whether it's on the internet, with iPass, you know, now smart meters, it seems that
 breathing pretty soon is going to be some collected by some agency whether it's government or otherwise. So we had a long discussion about that. How they plan to use it, how long they plan to keep it, how they're going to aggregate it and who will have access to it. So George is very open to meeting with people. We took a long tour of the training center.
 which was really great. That's a huge asset to the city of Rockford. So I would encourage people, I know he's going to be contacting some of the aldermen. It was a great tour. It gives me a great training facility to have there. And I would also ask that people look at having them come to their wards. Those are fantastic jobs if you can stand the height. I went up in a fire truck ladder and the height of those telephone poles got to me. I didn't go up on the poles, but um,
 if people can stand the height and working with the electricity, those are some amazing jobs and I'd love to see more Rockford kids have an introduction to that because the training center is here. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Over the past, the holiday we got that bad storm that we all got and I know I got several calls from the residential area about the contractors
 I've got a question for Mr. Hanson. There were several mailboxes that were taken down during that storm and landscaping that was damaged. Is that cost put on the contractor or is that cost on the city of Rockford?
 Mr. Hanson, in every winter season that we go through snow, we do have mailboxes that get plowed. We do have restoration that we have to do. If you call into our streets division, which is 779-348-7260,
 we will come out and put a temporary mailbox up for you, and then we'll take down that address, and then in the spring we'll come back and we'll replace that mailbox through an invoice. And then, of course, any restoration has to be done in any of the terrace areas that we destroy. We come back in May and finish up in early June with the restoration for those areas. Is that covered? It's at the city's cost. Okay.
 Is that the same as possible? Yes. Is there something we could do? I mean, I have received several complaints of the contractor flying up and down the street and people actually videotaping them hitting the mailboxes because they were...
 The storm, we did have issues with it being very heavy, very icy, it was wet at the time. It was a difficult storm to go through. So, you know, we had a lot of pickup trucks from the contractor that did break down. It was just hard to push. So I know that they had to rev it up a little bit more just to push this ice out of the way. Okay.
 We've had that review with the contractor. We did have some issues also along the lines of cul-de-sacs that they did a poor job on. So this has been a second storm that we've had this season. And as you get into the season and if we use them a little bit more, they get more into a routine. But we really haven't had the snow for them to really get into a routine of what they've had to do. But if we have individual cases we review on a case-by-case basis with the contractor, right?
 So if we have a quality issue, just like we might with our street sweepers and any other contractor operation, we have it with waste hauling from time to time. We'll follow up with the individual.
 vendors to assess whether there's a quality issue on their end, if there's a training issue on their end, sometimes you have different personnel coming in and take appropriate action. Yeah, if I could add into that, if you're seeing that occur at the time, call that number and we know where these plow drivers are and who they are as we're going through the A, B, C, D sections of the route.
 And we can address that immediately because the contractor does have supervisors that are out there to address those concerns. Thank you, Alderman Harvey. Just a takeoff on that with the snow. I know many people experience the same problem that I did, and that is the ice that formed on the sidewalks and wet the snow was so thick and so heavy. This was the first time in years that the person who clears my sidewalk came in and said, I can't move it.
 and he knows that's important to me because
 I don't have that many kids walking to school, but there's a bus stop down the street. And I don't know how many people experience that. I don't know if there's any product. But up and down the streets, almost none of the sidewalks are cleared. You just can't move it. So in those circumstances, I would ask that people be very careful because there are going to be kids walking in the street. There's going to be people walking in the street because you can't clear the sidewalks. And that's not an excuse. It's just...
 These are pretty strong guys, and they had to come in and say all in. So shovels just won't go through it. I don't have a pickaxe, so there was just not much they could do. So I do think people should be careful because I think until this thaw hits, we're not going anywhere with that snow. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Four run to unfinished business. I think Alderman Shrelle is going to make a motion. Your Honor, I move to convene in closed session in order to discuss threatened litigation matters. Thank you.
 It's been a motion and second to go into closed session for the purpose of discussing threatened litigation matters. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Motion carries. We will recess for the purpose of discussing threatened litigation matters in return after that discussion. Thank you. Unfinished business.
 Alderman Shirelli. Under Roman numeral 6B1-8, I place up for passage, but I would like to separate item number 8 out first. Item 8 will be separated. So up for passage under unfinished business under Roman numeral 6B items 1-7. Is there a discussion? Hearing no discussion, please call the roll. Getschus. McNamara. Frost.
 Irving? No. Connell? No. Thompson-Kelly? Odle? No. Newberg? No. Beach? No. Elie? No. Beck? No. McNeely? I would like clarification. We're voting on items 1 through 7? Correct. Okay. Aye. Chiarelli? Abstain on item number 1. Aye on the rest. Number 1, sign ayes to
 3 nos, 1 abstain. Item 6, I'm sorry, 2 through 7, 9 ayes, 3 nos. I think it's 10 ayes. 3 nos. Thank you, Matt. It's all passed. Your Honor, I move to lay over item number 8 for February 1st. A motion and second to lay over Roman numeral 6, I'm sorry, Roman numeral, yes, 6B8 to February 1st. The move and second to discussion.
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Getsch's? No. McNamara? No. Frost? Hervey? Connell? Thompson-Kelly? Odo? Newberg? Beach? No. Beck? No. Neely? No. Chiarelli? Aye. Seven ayes, six noes, rather. Motion carries. The matter will be laid over to February 1st.
 Thank you. Finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. Hold them back. One item. I'm going to ask to go back to committee at the request of several aldermen who would like to have more discussion and more information. So as well as the council, I would like to send that back to committee. Second. There's been a motion second to send Roman numeral 6C1 back to the finance and personnel committee for discussion.
 I like to thank you chairman for sending this back to committee because there's quite a few questions that hasn't been addressed yet. I would like to ask that the individuals that are proposing this to provide us with a little more information. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor please say aye.
 I say that the matter will be sent back to committee, I'm assuming for the next scheduled meeting. Okay. Thank you. Roman numeral 7. I can't say that. I'm sorry, I don't think there's anything else under that. Roman numeral 8, motions and resolutions. I'll come back. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to place under item C, place up for passage items 1 through 3. Roman numeral 8. Thank you.
 C12. It was laid over, I'm sorry, at committee. So the items one regarding the south diversion channel improvements and then three the resolution for improvement under the highway code for Harrison Avenue corridor improvements. So I'm sorry, two was laid over? Two was laid over at committee. So one and three? Correct. Up for passage? Or you need to, yeah, those matters up for passage for discussion. I'm sorry, was there a hand up?
 hearing no further discussion, up for passage is under Roman numeral 8C, items 1 and 3 of those matters are up for passage. Clerk, please call the roll. Duchess, McNamara, Frost, Kirby, Connell, Thompson-Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Noon, Ode, Chiarelli,
 12-1 on number 1, and on number 3, it's 11 ayes, 2 noes. Matters all passed. Thank you. Rumble number 9, new business, Elmer Trelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Rumble number 9, B1 through 10. I move to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Mr. Hayes. Only 1 through 3 are up.
 Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Never mind. I'm sorry to interrupt. My notes were wrong. Alderman Shrelle, can you repeat? I move to suspend the rules on items number B1 through 10. Second. I'm going to motion and second to suspend the rules on the new business, Roman numeral 9B, items 1 through 10.
 Through 10, all those in favor of suspending the rules, please seek to call the Senate. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. It will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those items up for passage. It is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Betches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irving. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo.
 Newberg Beach Elliott Aye McNeely Aye Chiarelli Abstain on number 4, aye on the rest Number 1, 3, 13, ayes Number 2, there's 12 ayes, 1 no Number 4, no
 9 eyes, 4, I'm sorry, 10 eyes, 9 eyes, 3 nose, 1 of stain. And on 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, there's 10 eyes, 3 nose. Sorry, 10 eyes. 3 nose. That is passed. Thank you. Thank you. Hold them back. Thank you, Your Honor. Under item C, I have two items, number 1 and 2, and I ask for suspension rules on those. Sorry, the second. Second.
 I just want to make sure the second item was sent back to committee. My committee is making sure I am trying to screw up but they won't let me so actually we just have the first item. So the electronic citation program. There has been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 9C1. All those in favor please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. I place it up for passage. It is up for passage.
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gitchis. McNair. Ross. Hervey. Connell. Thompson. Kelly. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. I turn to sign with Joe. Aye. McNeely. Aye. I turn to sign with Joe. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you. We refer the business before the council.
 Hearing none, there's a motion to adjourn. It's been seconded. Is there any discussion? All those in favor of adjourning the meeting, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.