McNeely, Chiarelli, 9 present. Excellent. We barely have a quorum. First, is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on December 17, 2018? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye.
 those opposed same sign motion passes next up we have proclamations we don't have any this evening and we'll move on to petitions and communications and starting with planning and development alderman rose so we have two items one was added later so I
 we have item one which is a memorandum from lafayette vaughan assistant city attorney regarding the adoption of the ordinances approving the south main rock street coleman village tax increment financing district redevelopment plan and project area designation of the south main rock street tiff redevelopment project area adoption of the tax increment allocation financing for the south main rock street and ordinance to adopt the amended south rockford tiff referring to planning and development committee
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have code and regulation. We have one other one. I'm sorry. This one was added on. We also have a memorandum from Andrea Heinrich, housing rehabilitation specialist, regarding the 1055 East State Street, Longwood Plaza, referred to Planning and Development Committee as well. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have code and regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have four items this evening. The first is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, historic preservation commission secretary regarding the proposed landmark designation. The 504 North First Street Whitmer House. The second is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, the assistant city attorney regarding the proposed amendment to the city of Rockford. Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 3, 3A, hours of operations.
 Number three is the memorandum from LaFleur Curie of Vaughan assistance to the attorney regarding the pre annexation of 57 XX Cunningham Road Fourth is the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on January 9 2019 And the minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Code and Rights Committee meeting on January 22nd 2019 all four of those items will be the codes and regs your honor. I
 Thank you alderman Shirely next up. We have finance and personnel alderman back. Thank you your honor I have three items first is a memorandum from Angela hammer City attorney regarding amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances section 942 To authorize the fire department repair facility to charge fees to provide service for External fire departments to amend 2019 fees scheduled to establish fees for service on fire apparatus for external fire departments second we have the
 Memorandum from Jennifer Jagger, Community Services Director, regarding Memorandum of Understanding Addendum with Resource Innovations for Weatherization Work. And then third, we have a memorandum from Wayne Dust, Planning Contractor, regarding the preparation and submittal of U.S. EPA grant applications. And these items will be referred to Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Alderman Beck. Next up, we have New Committee Reports. We have Planning and Development. Alderman Rose.
 We have two items again. Item 1, which is the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Board of Library Trustees of the City of Rockford for development of the 227 North Wyman Street and the request for proposal process. Okay.
 The second item is the intergovernmental agreement and bylaws to establish the Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority between Winnebago County, Boone County, City of Rockford, and the City of Belvedere. The legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Alderman Rose. We have two items before you. Is there any questions on the two items before you? Because they were all from tonight. Any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, clerk, will you...
 Legal director my Read Alderman toonberg item two there Is on that the land bank? Are you wishing to move forward with the? Okay, I'll turn in toonberg. Yeah, I would I would like to Lay that over again. What number two on that? Sorry There's motion second that'll automatically lay over. So now you have one item before you which is item
 4 a 1 any further discussion on that item saying no further discussion on that item clerk Will you please call the roll turkey or a 1? welcome in timber frost rose Quinones McNeely Shirely eight eyes one. No, I
 That item moves forward. Next up, we were to have code and regulations, but those six items will be laid over. So we'll move to letter C, finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor.
 items the first is the vouchers in the amount of 21 million three hundred and seventy thousand three hundred and seven I'm sorry twenty one million three hundred seventy thousand seven hundred eighteen dollars and forty four cents next we have the approval of the lease agreement between the city of Rockford and 303 South Main Street next we have the approval of offer acceptance for 1106 to 1116 West State Street and 111 sorry 107 to 113 Avon Street in the amount of two thousand dollars from Crusader clinic
 Next we have the approval of the tax exempt lease for the purchase of a backhoe excavator to slope mowers skid steer loader forestry chipper and speed trailer to PNC Bank for a lease rate of three point seven oh eight percent in annual payment of ninety six thousand nine hundred eleven dollars and eighty three cents for a term of five years I place these items up for passage. Thank you. So we have four items before you this evening Is there any discussion on those items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Nine ayes. Those items pass. Next up, we have officers' reports. Any aldermen have any reports?
 Seeing no reports, we'll move on. Next up, we have two appointments that have been laid over. The first is a reappointment of Michael White Jr. to serve a three-year term on the Fire Pension Board. The second item is an appointment of Jennifer Spencer to serve a three-year term on the Historic Preservation Commission. Ms. Spencer is replacing David Cody, whose term is set to expire in January of 2019. Is there any discussion on those two items? Yes.
 After January Excellent. All right. Those are laid over Till our very next meeting my apologies next up We will have motions and resolutions finance and personnel alderman back
 thank you your honor i have six items the first of the award of bid for 2018 aap demolition package group number one to northern illinois service in the amount of 59 500 for the listed properties
 Next we have the award of non-competitive contract for timekeeping and scheduling system to Tyler technologies for a one-year cost of 150 thousand four hundred sixty four dollars in annual maintenance costs of seventeen thousand five hundred and seventy eight dollars Next we have the renewal of agreement for the third party administrator for medical and hospital benefits for the 2019 health insurance plan to Blue Cross Blue
 Blue Shield of Illinois for the contract amount rates, $51.56 per employee per month. PPO plan and $38.22 per employee per month for the HSA plan. Total estimated annual administrative cost is $707,553.84 based on 959 PPO participants and 249 HSA participants. Contract duration is one year.
 Next, we have the renewal of the agreement for dental benefit for 2019 plan year with Metropolitan Life Insurance for the contract amount and rates of $27.84 for employee-only coverage, $65.75 for employee plus one, $126.20 for family. At the current enrollment level, the total estimated annual premium would be $1,119,000.
 $1,198,044. Contract duration is one year. Next, we have the renewal of agreement for employer-paid 2019 group term life insurance for City of Rockford employees with metropolitan life insurance for the contract amount rates of $.108 per 1,000 of...
 life insurance coverage and 0.025 dollars per one thousand dollars of ad and d coverage at the current employee count the total estimated annual premium will be forty seven thousand three hundred fifty seven dollars contract duration is one year and then we have the renewal agreement for medical stop-loss 2019 for medical and prescription benefits and
 for city of rockford health insurance plan to nationwide insurance for the amount contract amount and rates of 22.90 cents Per employee per month single enrollment and 53.24 Per employee per month for family enrollment the estimated annual premium is six hundred six six hundred thirty six thousand three hundred two dollars And um, the contract duration is one year. I place these items up for passage. Excellent So we have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Rose. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Cirelli. Aye. Nainez. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, we have new business. We have planning and development, Alderman Rose. So just the one item then, correct? Just the one item, yep.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The one item we'll be looking at is the ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Board of Library Trustees of the City of Rockford for development of the 227 North Wyman Street and the request for a proposal process. Put that item up. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the item before us? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Lugeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Rose. Aye. Lugeman.
 Quinones? Beck? Aye. McMeeley? Chiarelli? Aye. Eight ayes, one no.
 Excellent that item passes Code and regulation all of the six items are laid over next up is finance and personnel alderman beck Thank your honor. I have three items The first is an ordinance approving the lease agreement between the city of rockford and 303 north main street Second item is an ordinance approving an offer for purchase and sale For 1106 to 1116 west state street and a 107 to 113 avon street in the amount of two thousand dollars from crusader clinic
 And the third is an ordinance approving a tax-exempt lease for the purchase of a backhoe excavator, two-slope mowers, skid steer loader, forestry chipper, and speed trailer to PNC Bank for a lease rate of 3.708% and an annual payment of $96,911.83 for a term of five years. I place these items up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the items before us?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomber. Aye. Frost. Rose. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Nineyes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. Any discussion on that? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.