all right so we will begin our City Council meeting this evening I am Mariposa this evening actually before we do that I need to call the meeting to order and then we need a motion from council to appoint Alderman Karina the mayor pro tem this evening Alderman frost makes motion is there a second we have a second all those in favor any opposed motion passes Thank you. So we'll begin the City Council meeting for Monday, January 9th. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee, Logman, Toonberg, Frost, Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney. 14 present. 14 present. We have a full quorum. Let's start with the acceptance of the journals. Item number one, the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on October 17th, 2022. Do I have a motion to approve this item? Second. All those in favor say aye. Or any questions about them? No questions. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? None opposed. Item one passes. Item two, the journal proceedings for the strategic planning session held on November 1st, 2022. Do I have a motion to approve? Second, please. I'll second. I can't second. I'm the mayor. Thank you. Any questions? No questions. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? None opposed. Item two passes. Number three, the Journal of Proceedings for City Council meeting held on December 5th, 2022. Do you have a motion to approve? Thank you. Any questions? No comments. All those in favor say aye. Any opposed? None opposed. Item three passes. And lastly, item four, the Journal of Proceedings for City Council meeting held on December 19th, 2022. Do I have a motion to approve? Thank you. Second. Any questions? None. All those in favor say aye. Aye. I'm sorry. You forget I'm the mayor. I'm so used to voting. Any opposed? None opposed. Item four passes. Moving on to petitions and communications for the Planning and Development Committee, we'll go to Alderwoman Meeks. We're on page two. Yes. And turn. Under petitions and communications for Planning and Development Committee, this is item number one, a memorandum from Robert Wilhelmi, Brownfields Redevelopment Coordinator, regarding the consideration of Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful's funding request for 2023 to 2025. This is referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Meeks. We move on to Code and Regulation Committee, and we'll go to Alderman Bonney. Regulations Committee has two items. Number one, Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on January 11, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on January 23, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And number two... Liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda for the meeting to be held on January 18th 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 23rd 2023 Referred to Code and Regulation Committee Moving on to finance a personnel committee alderman frost Thank you, Madam. There's a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for the Alpine Road resurfacing project. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Please remain standing and read the Legislative and Lobbying Committee, please. There's one memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the renewal of a professional services contract with Zephyr Government Strategies for Lobbying Services for 2023. This matter will be referred to the Legislative and Lobbying Committee. Thank you very much. Under new committee reports, we have no items for the Planning and Development Committee, so we'll move on to the Code and Regulation Committee. Item number one, okay, we'll go to Alderman Bunny. I like it all. tonight number one committee recommends approval of the annexation of 49 08 49 72 49 80 5000 and 5064 South Main Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number two 3166 McFarland Road zoning Board of Appeals recommends approval for a special use permit for an unattended fuel station and carwash In a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 3166 McFarland Road, Jim Arneson for dealer properties is the applicant. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 3, 601 West Jefferson Street. Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval of a special use permit. That one was laid over. I'm sorry. Excuse me. I don't have money. I'm sorry. Yep, number 3 is laid over. Number 4. 2203 Charles Street, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink, Class WB, in conjunction with a bar and video gaming terminals in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2203 Charles Street. John Allen Thomas, Donald J. Kupini, Mark Allen O'Donnell, Northern Illinois Video Gaming are the applicants. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number five, 5120 Spooner Drive. Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink, class WB50, in conjunction with restaurant and video gaming terminals in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 5120 Spooner Drive. Item number five, 5120 Spooner Drive. IT'S A WING THING IS THE APPLICANT SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. ITEM 6 WAS ALSO, I'M SORRY, NOT ITEM 6. ITEM 6, 126 NORTH MADISON STREET. Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for a modification of an existing liquor license to add the sale of full liquor by the drink Class L50 in conjunction with the restaurant in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 126 North Madison Street. Magpies is the applicant. Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 7 is laid over and item 8 2452 Stow Market Avenue liquor and tobacco advisory board recommends approval for the sale of packaged liquor class PG PKG in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and In a C3, General Commercial Zoning District at 2542 Stow Market Avenue, doing business as R. Ford BP Incorporated is the applicant. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And item 9. Sorry, do you need to read that in, amended? It'll pass as amended. Okay, thank you. Sorry about that. Item 9 3301 11th Street liquor and tobacco advisory board recommends approval for the sale of liquor by the drink class l50 in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming terminals in an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 3301 11th Street up salts tavern and pizza is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Thank you, Alderman Barney. So we have seven items before us. Is there any discussion on these seven items? Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to item number nine, asphalt sale, Alderman Trumper was just curious whether or not the pizza recipe was going to stay the same. Can I speak to that? I don't know if the person – Can the Alderman speak to the pizza recipe? Okay. can only say that I have heard that it is awesome and Everyone who I saw eating it enjoyed themselves. Okay good Any other discussion on these seven items Mr. Mike just want to clarify item number one. I believe is annexations Were we requesting to have that held over again to allow courtesy contact to the property? Take a vote No, I think it I think it would be appropriate to hold it out one more cycle Make sure the property owners have all the adequate information on the next steps to advance Holding out So there's two ways you can do it we can either hold it out Nobody objects it be counted as unanimous or we could take a vote on it Objections to that item one being held out. Okay, no objections. So you need more discussion on six items. I Excluding number 1, 3, and 7. Seeing there's no more discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm 2, I am 2. Logeman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. 3 was laid over. Yes, ma'am. And so, and we're voting on 6, so... I would say aye on all of them. Bonnie. Item number 2, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item 4, 14 ayes. Item 5, 12 ayes, 2 noes. 6, 8, and 9, 14 ayes. Thank you very much. Moving on to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Meeks, I mean Alderman Frost. Number 1 is vouch for the amount of $26,989,318.39. And number two is the 2023 fee schedule amendment for parking and Scribner's area. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance on this item. Madam, I would ask you to suspend rule nine. So I'll make that motion to suspend rule nine. Okay, we have a second to suspend rule nine. Is there any discussion on these items? You can be seated. Do we need to do anything? So there was a motion to suspend rule nine. So that leaves a second in a vote on a motion to suspend rule 9 and then a vote on the on the items 1 & 2 Can it be a roll? Does it have to be a roll call? We can do it by voice vote. Okay, do we all in favor of suspending rule 9? Aye. Any opposed? None opposed. Any discussion on these two items? So there's no discussion clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee Logeman Aye Thunberg Frost Aye Tarina Aye. Thank you. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? It's just one and two. And that was no on both of those, correct? Thank you. Bonnie? Aye. Item number one, 14 ayes. Item number two, 13 ayes, one no. Moving on to unfinished business, committee reports laid over. We don't have anything from the Planning and Development Committee. So move on to codes and regulations committee. We'll go to Alderman Bonney. Thank you, honorable Madam President Pro Tem. Codes and Regulation Committee has one item under unfinished business. Committee recommends approval of an amendment to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances to allow hens at single-family homes in the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. This is laid over from December 19th, 2022, and I believe we are approving it as amended in committee? Correct. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Bonnie. We'll open discussion on this item alderwoman Hoffman Thank you. I'm really opposed to this whole ordinance But if it has a chance of passing Then I think we need to hold it over and look at it because I have been looking at some of the ordinances of the communities that don't seem to have a lot of problems and and they're much tougher than our ordinance. I looked at Naperville, and I believe our regulation is that we only have to be six feet from property line, 20 feet from a structure. In Naperville, they require 30 feet from buildings or property lines and must be 200 feet from any occupied residence other than the owners. Also, the property must have a barrier of six feet high on 75% of the property, meaning, of course, not in front of the house, but all the way around the yard so as to block the view from the neighbors so that they don't have to put up with the chickens in the chicken coop. Stronger rules concerning construction materials and some of the other suggestions. That were made by speaker Martin quirk I think we should take into consideration because once this goes out then it's hard to go back and use code if we didn't Make any regulation so we need to nail this down if we are going to go ahead with this Let me see. I had some other things on there too, but just one second. I Oh, I couldn't find it in our ordinance, but there should be no rolling coops. There are people on next door that are talking about the fact that when they get their chickens, they're going to get the coops that can roll around and move it around their yard, and that will be a nightmare for code. Okay. And let's see, also I don't know if it's in our ordinance, but we shouldn't have the chickens in homes. There are people that are saying that they're going to bring the chickens in the house and make them as pets. So I just think the ordinance needs a lot more work if there's any consideration of passing it. Alderman Rose? So our ordinance does address those things, but let's remember too that this is a pilot. And that the pilot is for one year, that if we do have issues moving forward, that they get addressed in the pilot. I've heard everything from supposed that they're going to attract coyotes and that those coyotes are going to go after little kids. I've heard that Noah's Ark is going to show up and all the animals, including alligators, are going to go after these chickens. I've heard, you know, tons of stuff. This is simply a pilot program. In fact, I... I'd just like to call the question because I think we've debated this for way too long. And so I'm calling the question to move this item forward. So call in question, you want to cut all conversation? We have to take a vote on that? Yes, there would need to be a vote on that. So clerk, will you please call the roll? So there's been a motion made to call the question that effectively would require, that requires a vote, but it would stop any further debate on the item. Okay. And we'll go right to a vote on that. One more vote after this, correct? Correct. We have no more discussion. There will be no more discussion. That's correct. So if you want to call the question, you need to take a vote. Well, we need a second on the motion to call the question and then a vote. Is there a second on that motion to call the question? Alderman, yep. So we have a second by Alderman Quinones. So now a vote on calling the question. Okay. Clerk, will you please call the roll on the call to question, please? Durkee. No. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. No. No. Frost. No. Tarina. No. Prunty. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. No. Rose. No. Beach. No. Quinones. No. Meeks. No. McNeely. No. Bonnie. No. Five ayes, nine noes. So we'll continue discussion on this item. Does anyone have more discussion on this item? Alderman Frost. Thank you. I commend Alderman Rose for putting in a lot of time and trying this. It's been discussed now a couple of times, and it's... I do like the idea of a pilot program. I just had a concern about if and when the pilot program ends, grandfathering in individuals or residents that already have theirs. Because my concern is if it isn't a success and we want to, I don't want to say kill the chicken program, but not allow folks to have hens at their homes. It's probably based on some sort of issues that we have with the pilot People and so that's why I'm concerned About grandfathering in those that those 30 that have it and so that's my own. That's my concern Have some comment but just a point of clarification as far as the question that Alderman frost is raising if you look at the committee report and Think it was our some of our understanding that when we were amending it that we were amending it to include the dropping of that Or to to include that if the pilot program were to end after one year Nobody's grandfathered in but the committee report doesn't really say that No, I believe that the apps of the the motion was to allow folks who had um approved during the pilot period would be grandfathered in so long as the property ownership does not change hands or The permit is not otherwise revoked for non-compliance I believe that was the motion from Alderman Rose the amendment to the committee report. It's a previous council meeting Okay, so So there would be Somewhat to Alderman Frost concern then so if there were problems with some of these Assuming we even have 30 in the first year of a pilot program if they were serious enough infractions to be shut down Then they would they wouldn't be grandfathered in is that correct? Mr. Meyer correct the permits are not property rights and so if they're you know, they're I subject to compliance with our code of ordinances. So if we have issues with individual permit holders and they're violating our ordinance, they'd be subject to revocation. And certainly during the pilot program, we want to make sure this is successful. So I would imagine that we'll be pretty vigilant on those. Keep in mind also that the item is going to come back before council to for an extension Council this is an ordinance and a program passed by council if council changes its mind it next year when this comes up you could also alter the ordinance to revoke even the previously permitted locations as well So I think that's a valid concern and I think now that we've been refreshed on what the motion actually was, that that makes sense. I feel like the repackaging of this as a pilot program really is hard to, would be hard to say no to. I mean, to me it's really sort of a no harm, no foul situation now where at the end of a year, any of these op any op any of these operations that have been granted permits that haven't been have not followed the ordinance won't be around to be grandfathered in if we do decide not to continue it and if we do decide to continue it we can strengthen it as alderman hoffman is suggesting we could also i assume limit the number you know essentially create a second extended as a pilot program by just raising the cap to say 50. I feel like in the comments that I've received, both many from outside my ward and some from in, that they really unfortunately break down on generational lines and our older residents don't want anything to do with this and it's younger families who would like to, this is a lifestyle thing that they would like to give a try and again, I think as a pilot program, that makes, that, Makes sense. I mean we're not committed to it. It isn't a forever thing You know nothing really is because we could always repeal it as well but again, I think as a as a pilot it requires us to proactively assess it and come back to it and And affirm that it is operating. It's not a problem. It's not consuming all of our Code enforcement staff time I did have I did want to read I A note I received from a resident of my ward, Vince Tarara, who wanted to speak tonight but wasn't able to come to be here. He said he would, I would respectfully request to be permitted to keep chickens at my residence. There are many benefits of raising chickens, which include fresh eggs, especially during this difficult economy. Pest control, chickens are omnivores and are often used to replace harmful pesticides. Foul fertilizer one of the best sources of nitrogen to be used in our garden Please accept this letter as my request to keep and raise chickens at my residence located with in your ward And I guess you know lastly I am thinking about this You know, I tried to think about it some of the people who called from outside my ward are close longtime friends of mine who are opposed to it and And I thought about, you know, so if it were my own backyard, well, I've had pit bulls next door to me that have charged through my wooden fence on repeated occasions. I have dog walkers in Maplewood subdivision who have called about pit bulls menacing them while they're walking their dogs. Don't understand I would sooner see us ban pit bulls than not give Chickens a one-year chip the chicken project a one-year chance to hatch, you know, like we're like judging it we're like prejudging it as a failure before we even give it a try and You know in all seriousness, I think pit bulls are far greater threat to our way of our our peaceful existence in the neighborhood than chickens probably will be and so I support it as a pilot. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Madam Chair. I had the opportunity to speak on this at least once and I'm glad that I'm able to speak tonight regarding it. I still think that for inner city that chickens are Regardless of whatever what other cities have it Would not be appropriate for a number of reasons. I know the alderman that put this forth Commented that there were he received several comments or heard several comments about different things happens When you have the chickens whether in the backyard or whatever and I did my research and found there are a number of cities like you said before that do have it but the participation is not that high and they do have various complaints they do sell i've seen on online people can buy chicken coops and put in the backyard supposed to be appropriate for the backyard however I still think that I didn't get the opportunity to talk to real estate association here. I still think that that affects the property value. I think right now is not the time to introduce something that's going to curtail the amount of real estate sales within the city. So I hope the alderman is pleased that you at least get a... TIME PERIOD IN WHICH TO TRY THIS OUT. AND I DON'T KNOW IF AT THE UNIVERSITY IF THEY'RE TRYING TO DO THE SAME THING OR NOT. I KNOW THAT IT'S BEING PUSHED THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. AND IF THIS IS PART OF A PROJECT WITH THE UNIVERSITY, MAYBE THE UNIVERSITY CAN HELP US WITH THIS AS WE GO THROUGH THIS PILOT PROGRAM. THANK YOU. Thank you. Alderman Quinones. Yes, I just want to say a few things here. I want to thank Alderman Rose for bringing this ordinance up. We could have tried it for one year to see how it works. As a matter of fact, I was looking forward to get all 30 permits in my ward, but I want to thank them again. Any further discussion on this item? Alderman Durkee. I haven't spoken on this publicly before, so I didn't get a chance to speak. Reason I would be in opposition of this is in this sort of is suggested by alderman Hoffman's Notation of the Naperville ordinance people buy a property that's designated are one they buy it with certain expectations that would go on in that property and use of that property and we have a lot of city lots and a lot a lot of congestion a lot of close houses and I'm disinclined to believe that most people who would move in would favor moving in next door to an existing Chicken coop, especially when the lots are rather small So because of that I think people we offer certain expectations when people want to buy and use property especially our one in Rockford, we're already seeing that erosion with group housing and scattered throughout the city and I'm disinclined to continue that I probably would be favorable to a lot to voting and for an ordinance that allows a certain square footage or acreage of a lot but consider but this particular ordinance I can't support for that reason any other discussions I know further discussion clerk we please call the roll turkey no logan Toberg frost Tarina I Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie five eyes nine nose Item does not pass We'll be going to finance a personal finance a personnel committee not have any items. So we'll go to officers reports Have any officers reports? Other women meets. Thank you so much really quick. I just want to think well so far the voting of the Sale of beer wine and drink and the gaming machines to 51 20 spoon or drive. I had the I pleasure of going to this business and I really think that this is really what it's all about with video gaming to get those businesses that are trying to grow and expand and that is exactly what this owner is doing so I thank everyone for the support thus far that is all other woman Hoffman Thank You chairman I just want to announce that tomorrow night, Rolling Green will be hosting a neighborhood meeting. We will have someone from Alignment Rockford to talk about early childhood. HOOD DEVELOPMENT. WE WILL HAVE SOMEONE FROM OUR WATER COMPANY AND WE WILL HAVE SOMEONE SPEAKING ABOUT THE PROCESS OF CODE. I HAVE A LOT OF COMPLAINTS ABOUT HOW LONG IT TAKES. IT'S BECAUSE THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND. SO WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A SPEAKER TALK ABOUT THE WHOLE PROCESS SO THAT THEY BETTER UNDERSTAND AND REALIZE WE ARE DOING SOMETHING, BUT IT IS A PROCESS. AND WE'RE ALSO GOING TO TALK ABOUT OUR ENTERPRISE ZONE. Awesome. Thank you. Any other officers reports? Alderman Toonberg. Thanks. Thank you. I would like to say it an extend. Thank you to our Rockford Police Department law enforcement. It is National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day. So thank you. Thank you. And thank you, Chief. So that was a thank you for saying that absolutely any more officers reports alderman Kenyans, yes, I just want to thank over the holidays. Thank cow and Public Works for doing a good job Don't know whether we had over the over the holiday season Any other officers reports wonderful Appointments laid over They're still laid over So moving on to motions and resolutions, none for planning and development committee, none for code and regulation committee. So we will go to the finance and personnel committee. So Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is an award for non-dependent contract for the 2023 police vehicles. Blue backward automobile in the amount of $119,248.48 for two 2023 Chevrolet Tahoe cars. LSV equals number two is a renewal of contract for the workers comp excess coverage 2023 to safety National Casualty Corp of st. Louis The estimate a premium is two hundred and twenty eight thousand five hundred dollars The contract duration is one year the funding sources the health insurance fund number three is a word of engineering agreement for citywide pavement preservation to engineering enterprises and ABROCADO AMOUNT OF $35,463. THE PROJECT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY DECEMBER 2023. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS SALES TAX. NUMBER FOUR, THE SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTION APPROVING AN ADDITIONAL $236.12 OF MFT FUNDS for the West State Street project the total amended MFT authorization is six thousand two hundred and thirty six dollars twelve cents number five is an award of funding agreement for the Parkview sidewalk transportation alternative program grant r1pc in 2019 the project also includes two single signalized pedestrian crossings at spring CREAK ROAD, BOTH FOR PARKVIEW AND ONE AT HIGH CREST ROAD. THE TOTAL TRANSPORTATION ALTERNATIVE PROGRAM GRANT IS THE AMOUNT OF $441,510. NUMBER SIX IS THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE GRANT AWARD, FISCAL YEAR 2022, PROJECT SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS, THE AMOUNT OF $132,171. THIS GRANT DOES NOT REQUIRE A COST MATCH, AND THE GRANT TERMS FROM JANUARY 1, 2023, TO DECEMBER 31, 2024. The grant has been awarded for the purpose of furthering the Camp Hope project and to assess the deployment of the Camp Hope initiatives in community-based settings. Number seven is the acceptance of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Restore or Revest reinvest, renew grant award amendment for fiscal year 2023. The city has been selected to receive a 12-month project term extension and a third award of $520,790 upon the execution of an amendment to the existing agreement. The third designation will bring the total amount awarded to the City of Rockford to $1,562,370 through January 31, 2024, and will support the continuation of services under the R3 Service Delivery Program. Number eight is an approval of an amended emergency rental assistance program from all Chicago in the amount of $40,000. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from July 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022, with an extension until March 31, 2023. The funds will be used to assist COVID-impacted residents in housing stabilization and self-sufficiency in furtherance of this purpose. I place these eight matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. We have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on these eight items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Madam. I have a question on number one. Does that also include any extras on the vehicle, or is it just the plane vehicle itself? And if it does include the extras, can you give us what that amount of money would be in this total? Chief Redd. Waterman Beach that does not include the extras on the vehicle because it's command staff that will be receiving those vehicles They're not outfitted the same as the regular patrols. Thank you so much Thank you any more questions or discussion on these eight items Okay, great. No questions on discussion clerk. Please call the roll jerky logoman tuber frost Torino I Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 14 eyes Fantastic, um, so it's called session, but we're actually gonna just kind of move things around just a little bit. We'll go to New business so for planning and development committee, we don't have anything So we'll move to codes and regulations committee and go to alderman Amen In ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 2542 Stow Market Avenue, R4BP Incorporated is the applicant. That's on here. Okay, I'm sorry. Number 10. In ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink class L50. conjunction with the tavern and video gaming terminals in an r1 single-family residential zoning district at 3301 11th Street upsells tavern and pizza is the applicant and number 11 an Ordinance approving an amendment to the city of Rockford code of or oh, I'm sorry in that that did not pass So we just have ten. Thank you. All right, so I You have eight items before you. Is there any discussion on these eight items? Seven items. Seven. Seven?
 Seven?
 Okay. Seven items before you. Any discussion on these items? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Logerman. Toomer. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Bonnie. Aye. Item number 2, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item 4, 14 ayes. Item 5, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item 6, 8, 9, 10, 14 ayes. Alderman Frost. At this time, I would make a motion to convene into closed session to discuss labor negotiation matters. Is there a second on that motion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We got one opposed, but it's not enough. So we'll move into closed session. And yes, there is still a committee, but we are moving into closed session now. So it was like that. All right. So we're going to call the meeting back in session. We have three items, so you probably want to take a seat, everybody. Kirk, will you please call the roll? Here. Runtime. Rows. Project. Here. Feat. Thank you very much. Moving on to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Okay. Number one is an ordinance to be scheduled amendment for parking and strippers. Number two is an union local 413 collective bargaining agreement for January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024. And I would make a motion this time to suspend rule nine. Is there a second? Is there a second? Second. Okay. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Okay, so Rule 9 is suspended. Go ahead. Number three is an ordinance approving the PBPA collective bargaining agreement for the term January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2025. And I would again make a motion to suspend Rule 9. There's a motion. Is there a second to suspend Rule 9? Thank you. All those in favor of suspending Rule 9 say aye. Okay. Any opposed unopposed? I placed these three matters before you Items before us is there any discussion on these three items? Seeing as there's no discussion quite please call the roll turkey logan timber frost Terina I fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 14 ayes. Fantastic. Do I have a motion to adjourn this meeting? Second. Great. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? None opposed? Have a wonderful evening, everyone. Thank you.