Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, January 8th, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee, Logerman, Toomberg, Frost, Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonney. 14 present. Excellent, we've already done invocation and pledge We'll move to the acceptance of the journals is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the strategic planning session held on October 30th 2023 we have a motion. We have a motion We have a second any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed Excellent we have a motion is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on November 6 2023 We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on December 18, 2023? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. We're going to move on to petitions and communications. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding a final plat of Rockford Charles Subdivision, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two is the traffic Commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on January 10th 2024 and minutes for that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 22nd 2024 referred to the Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you all the woman Trina next we're gonna go to Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman frost just stepped out. Is there a member of Finance and Personnel Committee that I could call on to alderman, Toomber Yes We're moving Alderman Frost. Oh my God, you're already up on petitions. Someone said that there's a national championship on tonight. I thought they held out for our debate on the sign, actually. They didn't get my email. A memorandum from Carl Fanz, the Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the proposed lien releases on certain Winnebago County trustee parcels to facilitate the sale to private owners as it be referred to the F&P Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we're going to move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois Department of Transportation outlining roles and responsibilities for accepting the award of an economic development plan grant for the East 8th Street widening project. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. There's one item before us, Counsel. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Toomer. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Aye. Thank you, Your Honor. I have nine items. Item number one, the annexation of 47XX South Main Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, an annexation of 3900 South Main Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, 1215 Parkside Drive. The Zoning Board of Appeals recommends approval for a zoning map amendment from C2 Commercial Zoning District. to our one single family residential zoning district at 1215 Parkside Drive. Legal directors shall, subject to conditions, legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 4403 South Henrietta Avenue and 4XX South Day Avenue. The Zoning Board of Appeals recommends denial for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage for accessory structures from 720 square feet to 1,264 square feet in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 403 South Henrietta Avenue and 4XX South Day Avenue. Number 5, 2135 15th Street. The Zoning Board of Appeals recommends approval for a variation to reduce the front yard setback from 30 feet to 10 feet for an office addition in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 2135 15th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 6 to 18 East State Street the liquor and tobacco advisory board recommends approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar with live music in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 218 East State Street a Subject to conditions illegal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number seven twenty three twenty seven kishwaukee street the liquor and tobacco advisory board recommends approval for the sale of liquor by the drink and The sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern outdoor beer garden video the gaming terminals and 100% stock purchase and I won light industrial zoning district at twenty three twenty seven kishwaukee street subject to conditions the legal director shop repair the appropriate ordinance Am I still to read item eight in? No, it was laid over. Oh I don't think it was. Okay. All right. Number 9, 112 North 2nd Street. The Penal Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the modification of an existing liquor license to add a separate bar and lounge in conjunction with an event venue in the C4 Urban Mixed Use Zoning District at 112 North 2nd Street. Subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Okay, that's all. Thank you. Thank you. So council we have eight items before you on your agenda It's items one through seven and item nine. Is there any discussion on those eight items alderman Durkee? Thank you your honor regards number seven two three two seven kishwaukee street You know, I read the report in the business plan I didn't bring this up in committee, but I did take a look at their menu and they are serving Chicago style hot dogs and Took notice of the fact that they are missing both mustard and celery salt So I'm wanting to help out the owner you got to add those two ingredients and it's got to be a sesame bun I mean a poppy seed, but you'll say no Is there anything relevant to the items that someone would like to say No, all those are clerk. Can you please call the roll turkey? All right, look I'm in Toomer frost Serena 20 Wilkins often Rose Beach Alderman Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey items 1 2 3 14 eyes item number 4 12 eyes 2 nose 5 6 14 eyes item 7 & 9 13 eyes 1 nose I Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee. And back to Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is approval of vouchers amount of $29,053,079.44. Number two is proposed sale of a portion of property located at 421 College Avenue to Fred Brecklin amount of $500. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number three is approval of a partial release of city record liens for 307 North Hinkley Avenue. The owner is requesting the city reduce the liens by 50%, which would be conditional upon her paying the remaining 50% of the liens owed TO THE CITY OF ROCKFORD. THE LEANS ARE VERY OLD. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. NUMBER FOUR IS APPROVAL OF RELEASE OF LEAN FOR 401 WEBSTER STREET IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,700 TO FACILITATE THE SALE OF PROPERTY FOR REDEVELOPMENT. THE SUCCESSFUL SALE OF PROPERTY WILL RESULT IN THE PAYMENT OF BACK TAXES TOTALLY MORE THAN $10,000 AS WELL AS OUTSTANDING WATER AND SEWER BILLS. THE LEGAL DIRECTOR SHALL PREPARE THE APPROPRIATE ORDINANCE. I PLACE THESE FOUR METERS BEFORE YOU. THANK YOU. WE HAVE FOUR ITEMS BEFORE US. IS Thank you mayor. I had stepped out of the room on item three briefly and that may have been asked and answered I I just don't know but Who is the owner who's requesting this lien reduction? Was that discussed? The owner of the property on Hinkley Dr. Burr, I'm a Bailey would other men Bailey. Do you know the owner of that property? Penny Edwards. Thank you. She was here. I Any other questions? Okay. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. For item four, I just wanted to – I will be supporting all of these, but the only reason I'll be in favor of the full waiver is because the city will be recovering the back taxes to only $10,000. So it's kind of a give and a take here in regards to that. So that's why I'm supporting it. I just wanted people to know I usually don't fully waive the – tax lien so But because we are recovering that tax money. I wanted to make it known that that's why I'll be supporting it Thank you other discussion clerk. Could you please call the roll jerky? Logman Toomer frost Serena Fronti Wilkins Hoffman Rose I Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie I No, three ayes. Item number one and two, 14 ayes. Item number three, 10 ayes, four noes. Item four, 14 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to unfinished business. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 205 West State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C2 limited commercial zoning district. At 752 and 908 West from Versailles Boulevard, subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. There's two items before us. Is there any discussion? I want to say Alderman Frost. I make a motion to lay both matters open until we receive further information by the legal department. We have a motion and a second to lay over items one and two. They were laid over, so we would need to have a vote. Correct? Correct. Is there any discussion on the motion, the second, to lay over items one and two? Question on the Alderman Bonney? Yeah, what is the additional information we're looking for and the reason we would want to lay this over? Mr. Murray. Long story. When the applicant, this is a request for a stock sale, just a straight stock sale of, I think, about 50% of the business. There's a one-point discussion about a change to the menu or menu items are the... business plan of what was happening going to happen at both of the restaurants we reached out to the applicant asked for a Additional information or requested that that those changes be given to us so we could give them to L tab at that time the applicant Said they were moving forward through L tab with just a stock sale After that there was another article about changes to the menu specifically I think to the Stockyard Burger Bar, which would now be operating under, I think the moniker, Half-Baked. We have not received an updated business plan or menu have talked to the applicant a number of times about that Let them know that you know staff is not changing recommendation Still supportive of the item But did have discussions about whether they're going to submit that decided not to was still asking to move forward with a stock purchase When I spoke to the applicant this afternoon Indicated they would give us more information about those menu items and what they're doing and After the meeting, but we're still wanting to move forward So typically and then with the context here is typically when item moves through council or l-tab Menu items or change in sort of plan of business is a part of the consideration Which is why we reached out to the applicant so the menu these change in the menu items Is that apply to just number two not number one? I'm not certain I think it's the discussion has been around both sort of had the conversation about both of them and We normally get that far down in the weeds on menu items Yeah, I mean typically would we see in the weeds whenever? Unintended whenever there's a applicant for for liquor license the business plan and the menus are submitted for council to consider So it's something we've read out to us. I mean whether those and menu items are changing I It's part of a standard application. So I've been told we're going to get them. This is just so we're clear. I'm not requesting. This is not a staff request for a layover, but we do know that we indicated more information. And these menu changes, at least as staff understands them, regardless of, it doesn't affect the recommendation. Correct. Based on what we knew, it's not changing the recommendation at all. It was just a matter of consistency. I mean it's been there's been discussions about it and I think those least one article about as well. Thank you Okay, so we have a motion. We have a second to lay over We had one discussion any other discussion other one Meeks. I just want to make a comment I think if there's any discussion or conversations that need to be had and still needs to be surrounding the numerous calls to service that are taking place at the district location and I think people need to take that into consideration when you make your vote on how things move forward with this particular bar I made that comment in Committee and I just want to make it again. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other discussion alderman to work? Yeah, they follow up on that and I did mention that in It is encouraged by the individuals who are coming in on this. It does state in there that they will have security Out in the parking lot and going around the parking lot periodically and such which I think right now is probably lacking So yeah, I don't dispute calls for service there in the past and recent past But I would I would hold accountable individuals who are coming in and have stated in their business plan will have additional security and In the parking lot being part of it. That is a city-owned parking lot But I am encouraged somewhat that they have mentioned that in their business plan specifically, because I think that's where a lot of the issues that I've gotten calls on are happening. So just wanted to state that. Thanks. Thank you. Is there other discussion? We have a motion and we have a second to lay over. So the vote we'll take now is should you or should you not lay it over? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here, key. Logaman. timber frost Serena fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey, but no 13 eyes one note both of those items and are laid over and Next there's nothing under finance and personnel. I'm gonna move officers reports to the end So we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development. We have nothing under code and regulation We'll go to alderman frost for finance and personnel. Thank you the award a bid for fire station uniform clothing Espin of two hundred one thousand one hundred dollars the contract duration is two years with three additional one-year options the funding sources the fire operating budget number two is what a bid for parking deck cameras the pro comp system amount of 461 thousand Thirty five dollars estimate be completed in 2024 the funding sources are number three is a word a bid for motor repair and maintenance precision driving control for an estimated amount of fifty thousand dollars a contract ratios one year with four possible annual extensions and The funding source is a water fund operating budget. Number four is a water bid for Water Division Electrical Services, the Geostar Miller Engineering, for an estimated contract value of $125,000. It is one year with four possible annual extensions. The funding source is water fund operating budget. Number five is a contract extension for the rental of traffic control devices, traffic control and protection in the annual amount of $200,000. Approval is for the third one-year extension to funding sources, various departmental operating budgets. Number six is an award of joint purchasing contract for the purchase of one Ford Transit van in the amount of $141,001. The funding source is grant funds from the Winnebago County Mental Health Tax Board. Number seven is rejection of bid and to take new bids for vacant property board ups. Number eight is approval of two ESG subaward grants. One is for the Institute of Community Alliance is in $30,000, and one is for shelter care ministries of $45,000. Number nine is the approval of the American Rescue Plan implementation phase three. Thank you, Alderman. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Council, we have nine items before us. Is there any discussion on those nine items? Alderman Bonney? Thank you, Mayor. I would request on number nine that we either – or I guess I would – Need to make this is in the form of a motion or request either vote on them separately or separate out the Quarter signage item director Myers Do you think that should be a motion or do you think we can just handle having one separated out? So the question can be divided upon requests if any alderman doesn't require a vote So if we're gonna do that, we would just okay I'm gonna propose is just a Mr. Cagnone is going to walk around and hand everyone the memo that you all have had But that way you don't have to remember all the items And I would just ask since this is new and our clerk could not Prepare for it with the proper sheets. Just be patient and state your vote Loudly and clearly and a bit slowly so that she can make sure To have it accurately accounted for so we do have nine items before us. Is there any discussion on those nine items? Alderman Tunberg. Excel Center on which item is that sorry nine to be nine I know that there's a few other Excuse me. There's a few other entities in in organizations in Rockford that offer GED services And I imagine those entities would like a piece of this pie as well, but nonetheless with the Excel Center How much are they putting in? Do we have that information? We do. First, it's not a GED program. It's a high school diploma program that provides childcare and workplace training. They are putting in $2 million towards the construction. It's a $4 million construction project. They're putting in $2 million towards construction, and then they'll put in $2 million a year to operate it. They've received funding, I believe, from the federal government, as well as at least one that I'm aware of, maybe two state representatives or senators. for coming up with that other 2 million towards that for okay thanks and I noticed when I read through that that they did not have a location yet for that they do have a location for that I'm sorry for that alderman to bird that location is in North Town Mall at the former Gustafson's furniture building On the West River side. Okay. All right. Good. You know, with this amount of money going to this organization of taxpayer money, $600,000, I know that I've talked to some other programs that we have going or have given to that program. you know, kind of being, I think it would be nice that if, if city council and administration as well, uh, was kept up to speed on performance. Um, so we're giving this kind of amount of money to an organization. Uh, I think it would be prudent for us council members, uh, stewards of taxpayer money to, uh, have maybe yearly, uh, updates from the organization Just you know how many students are coming in graduation rates success rates maybe some what what their jobs are That they're getting You know some success stories, but also Not glossed over in such a way that you know maybe there are some some kinks in it that can be worked out I'd appreciate hearing that it wouldn't be You know wouldn't be down you know looking down on it. You know we all have setbacks some some more than others, but That would be appreciated, so if we can maybe have a yearly update I Yep, we will certainly request a yearly update to be kept up on performance and then I touched I think I have your items as like number of students success rates graduation rates and types of jobs Absolutely all the wrong makes Can I get an update on the made for Rockford campaign Is it two years And it's a total of a five-year program. I just, just being a regular old citizen in the city of Rockford, I don't quite see what the Made for Rockford campaign is and what we're doing in this campaign. So is there anyone here that can fill me in on what it is? I mean, I know what it is essentially, but where's the progress and what's I don't know. MR. Yes. MS. Would anyone help me here? MR. Thank you, Your Honor. And, you know, certainly I won't be able to cover everything that Mr. Groh has covered in his presentations on the matter. But, you know, this was an initiative, you are correct, that started two years ago, 2021, approximately. And there was an initial investment of just under $400,000 with a number of partners that came to the table. They spent a lot. There was a host of items that they had identified in regards to how they were gonna market the community. One of them would be the Made for Rockford campaign. So you saw a number of stories that were created that were hosted on their website. Some of the data that they've reported out is, you know, 11,000 unique page views, an average of 2,750 per month, driving visitors to that page. Additionally, they've worked with a number of HR departments of significant businesses to help them with talent attraction. So identifying a number of assets throughout our community, working with the HR department so that they could, you know, relay that information to potential job, you know, seekers within our community. You know, more recently they've, you know, reset their efforts and were awarded $150,000 from the Woodward Charitable Trust that would be leveraged with the City of Rockford funds to continue a lot of that activity, including, you know, reaching out to regional and national, media outlets to get stories that pick up the city of Rockford and you'll see certain historical articles that we've had that come from the Made from Rockford campaign. So on a very high level, I tried to summarize some of the information that has taken place. We do have an individual that participates. Laura from our office kept up to speed on that process and also provides some input. And I'd be happy to have them further update when CVB comes back to Planning and Development Committee the next time to talk further. And what's the intention of this activity? the website, things like that. What's the intention of all of this? Positive awareness of the city of Rockford in the Rockford region as a place to locate your business and a place to live, not only in regards to attracting business and talent to our community, but also personal pride within the residents that live here already. And then for you mentioned some of the HR firms that they're working with that they have collaborated with Can you tell me if any of those HR firms in the Rockford area are minority firms or women-owned firms? I cannot Tell you one way or the other the businesses That they've collaborated with or the directors of the HR department, I'd have to get that information from them. I just don't have it I i can't add though that certainly some of the directors and departments are run by uh black rockfordians i don't know about the actual hr firms but many of the businesses that have participated in their groups are african-american and maybe Hispanic and maybe some other? Absolutely. I know that they've had a diverse group, and I shouldn't just say that, so thank you. They've had a diverse group participate, especially when it comes to the businesses that they've been working with. I don't know off the top of my head the actual different firms that they've utilized. I think... I might have missed when John Crow came and spoke about this. I apologize. So I am not hip to it right now. I remember when this came across council last year, and there were a lot of questions at that point in time. And then to see it again on this agenda, I just want to be sure that, you know, the... The efforts that are a lot of money, you know, we invested a lot to get it started. We're continuing to invest and I want to make sure that the ROI that we're investing makes sense for the city of Rockford. So I just kind of question that. I'm going to probably have a hard time voting yes for this one in this particular go around. So thank you. Understood. And we will make sure that the CBB comes in soon to go over it. Thank you other alderman Durkee. Thank you your honor. I have two questions if that's just a follow-up on the made for Rockford campaign isn't RACVB doing they contracted with us to do something similar What happened to that member they were gonna they sub they sub that out to somebody some kind of marketing campaign to reach out to do Very similar thing remember that mr. Cagnone. I Thank you, Your Honor. So you are correct, Alderman. There was a previous funding agreement that we had partnered with Woodward Charitable Trust and where we had provided funding for the program. As part of that effort, they did contract out with local marketing firm as well as a national marketing firm to help drive some of the content as well as create the content that they were pushing out to the greater community region and nationally. I can't, you know, some of the statistics I answered previously were part of that campaign. I know that we've had through alderman request. had Mr. Groh report on the Made for Rockford campaign as part of his quarterly report, and we can certainly make sure that that continues to take place. This, like the other items that are proposed within this plan, will require a funding agreement to come back before City Council, so we can be in a position to not only provide the further statistics in regards to the outcomes that have taken place, but how we'll further report on that going forward. Alderman Durga and then the second question the Family Peace Center not opposed to acquiring the library building The question two questions I have number one I thought the purchase price of that building when it was bought by the library was three hundred fifty thousand dollars Secondly rather than a purchase is any option to reach out for an intergovernmental transfer building You are correct. The purchase price for the property was less than what it's being sold for, but they also invested millions of dollars within the property. It was either a $3 or $4 million investment took place post-purchase of the building. We have toured it, inspected it with our public works team to identify where there may be additional areas of improvement. in the near term as well as the long term. And, you know, there will be, require some, you know, ongoing maintenance to take place. You know, the library has an agreement with ComEd which sets forth how they dispose of that property. And a portion of the sale goes to the library and a portion of it goes back to ComEd. So they're in a position where they need to sell it. And I did receive information, Alderwoman Meeks, not full information, but they've worked with workplace staffing, they've worked with first staffing, and I'm sorry, I'm talking about the CVB, workplace and first staffing, they've worked with the Hispanic Chamber, and they've worked with a whole host of companies, including, but not limited to, Woodward, Collins, UW Health, Mercy, OSF, and a list of others. SOMEONE OVER HERE HAD THEIR HAND UP. OTHER WOMAN, WILKINS. THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. I JUST HAVE A POINT OF CLARIFICATION. SO ARE WE DOING Like 9a through H or is this just separated from the arts and everything else like how is this working? Is everything so the way thank you and for clarification for everyone. So you all just got this memo. I would just ask Right below it says ARP Implementation phase 3 proposal is attached and explained below. I would just ask if Those that you are not going to support, just specifically list no on blank and blank and I on the remainder. That way our clerk can keep track of that. Is that fair? Does that help, Alderman Wilkins? Yes. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you. Mayor, so regarding the public art displays, the memorandum states that additional pieces of art besides the Founders Landing piece that used to be in front of the post office, now the Park District headquarters, have been secured for display. Would I be incorrect to assume those have been secured by the CVB or are there other Sources of the city part. I assume not purchase these so we have the founders landing statue We I am aware that I believe the Rockford Art Museum Has secured a piece I believe from when and I could have this the company wrong, but I believe from when McDonald's I Sold their headquarters in the suburbs. They had an entire campus full of art and statues I am uncertain off the top of my head if the CVB has any ownership similar to the to the Corridor signage these would come back we would approve we approve the funding for the installation of these but we would also approve The installation locations and the acceptance of the individual pieces of art. Yes, and we'll make sure none of them have all our welcome on them I mean, that's not my issue Other comments other one fronty Can you pull down your mic sorry, yes, thank you. Sorry about that And forgive me Forgive my ignorance. I just wanted to go back with administrator Cagnone. You said that more would be needed Once you all had done your tour you felt like more maintenance would be needed. Can you elaborate on that? Mr. Cagnone. Thank you, Your Honor We know that the roof has been patched and is aging and there may be an area where we need to make some improvements on the roof and Other one on Prunty? Can you just give me a sense of, and I know I promised I was going to tour the current Peace Center, and I have not, but I have been to the library numerous times. Can you give me a sense of what we currently have and then how it differs from what we will be? Yes, and I'm going to ask Ms. Ketchapalia, the yellow mic is on. Thank you Alderman. Right now we're in approximately 11,000 square feet and we have about 34 partners. Those range in occupancy from permanent full-time to absolute referral partners. So those partners will come into the center and meet with clients on scene and also then receive them in their space. The library space would give us 50,000 square feet. At this stage, if we stay in the current location, we can stay in the current location. We cannot onboard one more partner, not even as a referral. Could you touch on just I think I don't want to read too much into your question, but some of those services that are at the Family Peace Center and partners that are there? Right, we have our entire city of Rockford Police Department's domestic violence unit is on scene, so all of those officers and detectives report there every day. RSAC, Rockford Sexual Assault Counseling, has a full-time presence there. Zeke Georgie Legal Clinic is a part-time partner. Prairie State Legal Services is a full-time partner. RAMP is a part-time partner. Children's Home and Aid, which is now Bright Point, is a full-time partner. They actually do the child play therapy on site. The YMCA and YWCA are referral partners. Carrie Lynn Children's Center is a referral partner. They are a partner that we desperately would like to get into the building so that we can provide services to their clientele into our building. I'm not entirely sure when that could possibly happen, but they are definitely one of our priority partners. We also have Care for Pets, who we work with to foster pets in the event that we need to offer foster care for a survivor and their children. Remedies. We also have Remedies Renewing Lives as a full-time presence in our space. They actually are the one agency that has their own office in the building. And I think, oh, OSF Trauma Clinic is a part-time partner as well. And I'm blanking on the rest of them right now. Sorry. Is that fair? Thank you very much. Sure. Are these partners? So they are not yet paying rent. We started last year with them working towards having them apply. in all of their current on the renewal grant fundings for a portion of our rent and that is currently happening Prairie State is the partner who's actually gone through that renewal phase and actually asked for the funding unfortunately their entire grant was not approved But we have sat down with all of our partner agencies and discussed with them going forward seeking grant rent Costs in all of their renewal funding going forward the partners are appreciate the work that is being done there. I and I could just be off base totally, but is there any consideration for how human services pieces of it could be incorporated? I just think domestic, and I often think sometimes poverty. Human Services is also one of our primary partners. We work with them very closely in getting survivors connected to services. Because they are close to us, we generally don't have anybody in the building that's been a long-time goal of Director Parr and mine, but their capacity and our space needs just hasn't worked out, but Human Services is one of our primary partners. And with this additional space, they could possibly be. We would certainly continue conversations with Director Parham and her team about seeing if we can get one person from her agency in the building to provide those services directly to those clients. Okay. And what happens to the space that you're currently in? Mr. Cagnoni? Not ready to talk about that. So we anticipate that we'll be able to deploy that space with other department needs from the city of Rockford. We know that as an organization, we know we've shrunk and then expanded and shrink again on a regular basis and need to provide accommodations for some of our other departments. So I would anticipate that we'll be able to utilize that space for a different department. All right. Thank you. Alderman Meeks and then Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Your Honor. I have to remember my question now. The question was, is the intention that this will be the permanent space for the Family Peace Center? No, it's not big enough for our needs. We need at least 70,000 to 100,000 square feet at least. How many? 70,000 to 100,000. 70,000 to 100,000. We ultimately would like to offer medical services in the building. So many of the survivors that come to that building are coming there directly from police scenes in various states of injury. Some of them have been strangled Days or weeks before and need follow-up care. And so we need a significant amount of space So if council does choose to purchase this and allows us to enter into a lease agreement It's going to give us a tremendous gift of allowing us to grow and improve our partner responses right now But it's ultimately not large enough for what we need permanently Thank you so much. Well, I mean Bonnie well that segues perfectly into my question I think um Think this is a great move makes a lot of sense. I'm curious as to what happens to the one-time potential future home on the State Street at Circuit City and what is the current agreement? by which We have any Interest or that the Peace Center has any interest owner interest or claim to that property and what happens to that facility? I think it's a matter of public record that the city or the Peace Center does in fact own that property and it's currently used by another partner agency and that's the state of it and this purchase by the city and potential lease agreement with the Peace Center won't change that. It's a conversation that's ongoing on when and how to move into that permanent location. Quite frankly, construction costs after COVID derailed all of our plans. And so we just don't have a clear vision or path to that yet, but we're working on it. The current I maybe I know this and not recalling it but the current partner is who I tell patient army Salvation Army Thank you alderman Bailey so for clarification So we own property on East State Street where is that? No the Family Peace Center nonprofit owns property on the State Street Former Circuit City Pep Boys. Okay. Thank you other discussion. I Okay, so just a reminder on the sheet, I would just ask for simplicity purposes, those that you're going to vote no on, please state I vote no, blank, blank, whatever it is. Those that you're voting aye on, just say aye on the remainder. And I'd ask that we do it somewhat slowly so the clerk can catch this. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye on the plan. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. No. frost No one for made for Rockford camping. No one Ford for fun So the first one is public art display. Oh, the first one is right above it. It's Ford for fun. Terina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks. I'm sorry. I got the no one made for rock for campaign and I on everything else. Okay. Thank you Meeks, I'm sorry Bailey I So, and I get that. One second. Okay. Alderman Bailey, you're up. Bailey. Aye, he said. I'm sorry. Bonnie. Okay. Item 1, there was one no, and Item 5, there was one no. The rest were unanimous. Excellent. Next, we're going to move to new business planning and development. Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement. Come on, the right thing. Yes, I am. Thank you. ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford in the state of Illinois Department of Transportation outlining roles and responsibilities for accepting the award for an economic development program grant for the East State Street lightning project Excellent we have one item before us is there any The rest of the resolutions under finance and personnel we only voted on item 9 we did not vote on a Okay. One, two, three, four, five, six. We're going to go back to that in a second. We have one item before us under planning and development that although woman Wilkins just read in, is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion on that one item, all those in favor say aye. So that should be a take one for the record. Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Sure. It was my understanding when we had the initial vote, we voted for all the items. However, the item nine was separated. I think for the purposes of clarity, Director Meyer said he wasn't certain that we should vote for items one through eight. independent just for record so this would be items one through eight so I understood that I'm just saying since Alderwoman Wilkins read in the item let's just finish that item and we'll go back to the one through eight no you're good so right now Alderwoman Wilkins just read in new business planning and development the one item that's there If we could vote on that one item, then I will go back and we'll vote on items 1 through 8 for clarity purposes, because I don't believe item 9 was separated. So the one item before you is planning and development, item 1 under new business. Clerk, could you please call the roll on just that one item? Durkee. Aye. Mogelman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Arios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. 14 ayes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go backwards, and we're going to go to motions and resolutions and go under finance and personnel, which for those still following us on television and not watching the championship game, that would be item C, finance and personnel, items 1 through 8. since we've for sure voted on number nine. So we have items one through eight. Is there any discussion on those items one through eight? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Arios. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. Aye. Fortinis. Excellent now we're fast forwarding to new business again, and we're under code and regulation committee other woman Trina Thank you. I have seven items as we laid over three Number one an ordinance approving the annexation of 47 XX South Main Street number two an ordinance approving the annexation of 3900 South Main Street number three an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from c2 limited commercial zoning district to our one single family residential zoning district at 1215 Parkside Drive number four an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the front yard setback and from 30 feet to 10 feet for an office addition in I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 2135 15th Street. Number five, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by drink in conjunction with a bar with live music and a C-4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 218 East State Street. Number six, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by drink and the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a tavern, outdoor beer garden. video gaming terminals and 100 stock purchase in an i1 light industrial zoning district at 2327 kishwaukee street number eight an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to add separate bar and lounge in conjunction with an event menu and a c4 urban mixed zoning district at 11 1112 north second street oh that's it thank you Thank you. So your agenda says that there's 10 items We are only voting on items one through six and item eight Uh, is there any discussion on those items clerk? Could you please call the roll turkey logeman? Toomer cross serena printy wilkins hoffman rose beach barrios meeks bailey bonnie Items 1 through 5 14 eyes and in 6 and 8 13 eyes 1 no. Thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel committee Alderman frost thank you number one is an ordinance of proof approving the sale of a portion of property located 421 college Avenue to Fred Brecklin in the amount of $500 number two is an ordinance approving the partial release of C Rockford liens at 507. I'm sorry 307 North Hinkley Avenue and Conditional upon the owner paying the remaining 50% of the liens owed to the city Rockford The number three is Lawrence approving the release of a lien for 401 Webster Street in the amount of two thousand seven hundred dollars to facilitate The sale of the property the place will stream energy for you. Thank you. Thank you alderman frost council We got three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? logan timber frost Terina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Item number 114, ayes. Item number 211, ayes. 3, noes. And item 314, ayes. Okay, I skipped officers' reports to put it at the end. Is there anyone who has a report? Seeing no reports, is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a good night.