Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, January 10, 2022. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Logaman. Toomberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. 14 present.
 thank you we have a full house and a quorum is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on december 6 2021 we have a motion we have a second is there that was by alderman quinones is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same sign okay item passes next uh this past week we lost del peterson former
 Well, family man, husband, father, and a lot more, World War II veteran, City of Rockford employee, Rockford Police Department employee for 36 years, and the longest-serving chief of our city's history. I would ask if we could stand for a moment of silence. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next we will go to on to petitions and communications and we'll move to Planning and Development Committee all the woman Meeks Thank You Your Honor Under Planning and Development Committee item number one the memorandum from Carl Franzen community and economic development director regarding a presentation From the Rockford Area Arts Council refer to the Planning and Development Committee. Thank you Thank you. Next we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman Rose. I
 thank you your honor um item one the traffic commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on january 12 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on january 24th referred to code and regulations item two a memorandum from megan mcneil assistant city attorney regarding amendments to the 2022 fee schedule for video game terminal sticker fee referred to code and regulation committee
 Item 3, Zoning Board of Appeals Agenda for the meeting to be held on January 19th and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 24th, referred to codes and regs. Item 4, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's Agenda for the meeting to be held on January 19th and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on January 24th, referred to codes and regs.
 item five the memorandum from nick nicholas meyer legal director regarding an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and rps205 for police services referred to codes and regs and item six a memorandum from nicholas meyer legal director regarding an extension of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and rha for police services referred to code and rights
 thank you alderman Rose uh we do not have any items under finance and personnel committee so we will move to new committee reports and we'll go to Alderwoman meets for planning and development committee thank you your honor item number one the 2022 funding agreement with Rockford Area Economic Development Council or raedc the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Item number two is the approval of the 2022 annual action plan. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And item number three is the approval of the amendment of the 2021 annual action plan. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So we have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Clerkie. I'm one, no, I'm two and three. Logeman. Aye. Aye.
 Toomer? I have 1 no and 2 no. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Prunty? Wilkins? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonnie? Item number 1, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 2 and 3, 11 ayes, 3 nos. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose.
 thank you your honor item one is the uh 2303 16th avenue the zoning zoning board of appeals recommends approval for variation to increase the maximum vent height permitted in front yard from four feet to six feet along 19th street in our r1 single family residential zoning district at 2303 16th avenue subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Item 2 is 1708 West State Street. The Zoning Board of Appeals recommends denial for a special use permit consisting of a banquet hall for family gatherings, bridal showers, meetings, fundraisers, and holiday gatherings at a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 1708 West State Street. Item 3 is 1311 North Main Street. The Zoning Board of Appeals recommends denial for a special use permit for indoor climate control. All that one was...
 sorry that one was laid over held over and four is a request to enact the illinois environmental age protection agency iepa recognized citywide groundwater use ordinance for the city of rockford and item i'm sorry the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and then item 5 is the annexation of 747 wavelength avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Thank you. So, Council, we have four items before you. Item three has been laid over. Any discussion on those four items remain. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Mogman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. We'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, we have vouchers in the amount of $26,920,603.53. Number two is renewal of the intergovernmental agreement for the electronic citation program between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago County Circuit Clerk. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three is approval of Memorandum of Understanding with ASPE-C regarding the payment of recruitment, retention, and perfect attendance incentive to Head Start staff.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four is the approval of a memorandum of understanding with community partners for the Rackford Citywide Health Literacy Initiative grant funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Minority Health. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those four items before you. Excellent. And I believe the item four was held out, correct? Oh, I'm sorry. Okay.
 Right, so we have three items before you, council items one, two, and three. Is there any discussion on those three items before you? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Yerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely.
 Excellent. We will go to unfinished business. Committee reports are laid over. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Under A, item number 1, committee recommends approval of the proposed funding long-term loan for the capitalization of
 Of a Community Development Financial Institution, or CDFI, in partnership with the Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation, NICDC, and the Rockford Local Development Corporation, RLDC, and local financial institutions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And then item number two, the committee recommends approval of the subrecipient agreement with the Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity for a critical residential repair program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So, counsel, we have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Kirkey. I'm sorry. What was your vote? Thank you. Logerman. Aye.
 Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Prunty? Alderman Prunty? Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Bonnie? Aye. Item number one, 13 ayes, one no. Item two, 14 ayes. Thank you. There was no one told me. Okay. So, I'm going to ask you to do the same thing. I'm going to ask you to do the same thing. I'm going to ask you to do the same thing. Okay. So, I'm going to ask you to do the same thing. Okay.
 Both? I'm sorry, I only wrote it down for one. So both items were 13 ayes, one no. Wonderful, thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of an ordinance establishing a civilian oversight board. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have one item before you, counsel. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Durkee. Yeah, thank you, Your Honor.
 In reading the draft and the proposal from the oversight, for this oversight board, I complimented both Mr. Meyer as well as the chief and others who drafted a very good document. And I think it was well-researched, it was well-written, it was pretty clear. And I still maintain that. In the intervening time, as I thought about this and actually...
 read some things about civilian oversight boards. In fact, one article is still up on my iPad. There's some danger to these things. Right now, as I've weighed this, in our city, this almost looks like a solution looking for a problem. We don't get a lot of complaints. I really have a lot of confidence in our chief and the administrative staff and what they do.
 And I think the public should. When you look across the country, and I don't know so much about here, but I think those who have a mistrust in the police department who need something like this, I don't know the percentage, but I'll gather that there's a certain number of those people, no matter what you do, they'll never be satisfied with transparency unless they are in the room
 watching everything I think sometimes when people are weighing how evidence is brought up forth and I think we've seen this over these well publicized trials we see people actually not waiting not being slow to speak and quick to listen but rather shooting their mouths off and then looking for an outcome before the evidence is heard because they're following a narrative rather than the evidence and so I
 I'm just wondering how much that influences our desire to do this. And in our discussions with staff, I even made the comment that are we doing this to be stylish? Are we doing this to be part of some movement? That was also some of my hesitancy earlier. Thank you.
 But I did take a look at some of the stuff that has come about when these commissions have been put in place, and they seem to go in two different directions when you read about them. They seem to go toward a direction of being wholly ineffective and not satisfying anybody, and they also seem to go into a direction where they get draconian and they want subpoena power, and they really want to get involved in the management of the police department itself.
 And there's a little bit of drift in there. And I'm a little, given the fact that I think this is a solution looking for a problem, I'm a little wary of that risk. The other risk I'm really nervous about is the people on it. I don't know. I would never pretend to understand fully picking up a weapon and standing a post between us and the bad guys.
 i i can't imagine doing that um and i don't know that even a well-educated i really don't know if i have confidence in their ability to do that but um i think there may become a time for this ordinance but i just i don't think it's now for rockford you know and um so but i and i feel
 I actually part badly about that because so much good work went into doing it. And it is a good document, but right now I don't know that it's the right time. But I still maintain that it was a good job. I mean, it was well done. But that's where I'm at, Your Honor. Never the wrong time to do the right thing. Just joking. Alderman Thunberg. Oh, gosh. Now I'm scratching my nuggets, though.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Alderman Frost. I would agree with Alderman Durkee's comments. I think there is well intention to this, but again, I don't know if we have a significant problem in Rockford.
 with this i think our police department our entire city from the mayor to our staff we have such a professional level of people and diligent people and and i just believe on the the process of this is where i have my biggest questions how is it going to work because i i just think that it duplicates what the police do it duplicates what internal review does it duplicates compliance procedures i mean we we have
 We have our police being reviewed now in so many ways. We have internal affairs. We have the Police and Fire Commission. We have the chief. If that process doesn't work, these are all collective bargaining issues that already exist between the city and the union. And if there is a matter that has more contentions about a disciplinary matter, it's going to go to arbitration no matter what, no matter whether we have this committee or not.
 And so I think it just invokes a new level of politics. One of the lines was that the investigation will, quote, complete, will be complete, thorough, objective, and fair. And my question is, if this doesn't already take place, then we truly do have a problem. And I'm unaware of that problem existing now. I'm unaware of our internal process being flawed now.
 Imagine if our finance director, I don't mean to pick on her, but if she embezzled $300,000. I mean, do we have someone that reviews that matter all the time? Well, we do. We hire an auditing firm. We have other policies and procedures in place that in case that ever did take place, that it would be brought to the attention of the city staff, the administration, and the city council.
 our public works director if mr. Saunders had a new driveway port in next year and it was free and then his house was cited and Brie bricked and it was done you know illegally um we would find out about that and why is that because we do have internal policies and procedures already in place and you frankly the police department is is another department of our city and
 It just gets obviously a lot more attention and the timing seems to be, you know, it was talked about the listening sessions and that there were 41 listening sessions. Well, unfortunately, I didn't go to 41 of them. I went to a few of them. But I don't remember the need to have our process take place because I'm really worried most about the chief, you know.
 the chief in this situation let's say that this board which I do question the training and why we're going to expend you know thousands tens of thousands of dollars training a board to act in this capacity when their decision in the end really doesn't matter anyway so what we're going to have happen is or this could happen is officer acts
 violates rule Y and and the chief says okay officer X I recommend that that officer get three days off the oversight board says one month off
 Guess what happens? In that particular case, after arbitration, the officer could possibly get three days off. My concern is after that decision comes out, we now have a bigger problem. We now have a board that says one month off, a chief that says three days off.
 So whoever our chief is, you can't tell me that the next time there's a matter that comes before him or her, is it now going to be swayed by some level of the public or politics in it? So, I mean, I just don't think we need to politicize our police chief and put him or her in this case.
 Chief Red, under some sort of influence where she's not thinking what she should follow, what the law says to follow, instead thinking, well, now I have this oversight board that maybe I have to deal with.
 So those are, like I said, most of my problems with it just have to do on the procedural side of how it's going to work. And I'm concerned about it. I mean, you're talking about a police department that has already embraced body-worn cameras. So tell me what other job you have someone that gets filmed every motion, every minute of their job. None of us do.
 Every day all day long so that whatever evidence is needed should come from body-worn cameras and so Somebody and I don't believe it's the role of a community member should be the ones frankly that are reviewing that it has to be someone That's really properly trained
 in internal affairs and police conduct and excessive force, those are issues that somebody and many people in our city and our staff already have the requisite training. So why are we creating a board of people that want to come forward? Because I don't believe, and it's in the document, it says we're not going to put people that are pro-police or anti-police on the board.
 Come on. I mean, we all know that's not going to happen. That's going to be very, very difficult. And I mean, I guess we'll see what assuming this matter passes, who's on the board. But I have a feeling it's not going to unless the mayor is going to have either a difficult time getting people to come forward that are really unbiased or you're going to have people that are coming out of the woodwork that want to get on there with a hidden agenda. And so that's why I'm voting no. Thank you.
 Thanks. Other comments? Alderman Rose, then Alderman Beach, then Alderman McNeil. One of the reasons, Your Honor, why I'm supporting it is, number one, is, you know, this process of creating the Civilian Oversight Board, number one, is simply to address what the public feels in regards to a good open process, is that many of these decisions are made
 you know, behind closed doors. And what this process, I think, is meant to do is to open those doors, open those gates, and say to the public, hey,
 We don't have a problem in Rockford with our police department, and we're going to show you. We're going to be transparent with this process. And to me, any time you can expand transparency, especially in something around policing or what some people might consider controversial, I don't think it's as controversial as it is because I think we have some awesome police officers there.
 But anytime we can go to our community and say, here, we're being transparent on this issue. We want you to see this with open arms. And we'd like for you to see how well our police department operates. I think anytime you can build that public trust.
 is something that's gonna be beneficial. I refer back to a police officer who was in our school who said, you know, trust is one of the most important things for me as an officer because what happens is when I establish trust with people in the community or in certain circumstances, they feel more welcome and they offer me information that makes our area safer.
 And so to me this is one of those things that would also be a part of that. The third reason, and I think this is probably just not really a great reason, but I think it's well needed for people to understand, is Rockford isn't starting this as an agenda item from the state of Illinois. We're one of the last communities
 of our size to approve a civilian oversight board so we're not an outlier in the sense that we're starting this work we're behind other communities and so in knowing that i feel like it's appropriate it isn't an exactly an appropriate time to do that because i think
 I think the only other community our size that doesn't have this is Joliet, who is currently looking at that very issue. And so to me, if Joliet is one of the last ones and we're one of the last ones considering this move, it makes forward this is the right time to do it. And I'm looking forward to engaging in this work with our community as well. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. So when we got the memo,
 And a copy of the draft that's before us. We were encouraged to talk to our legal director, which I did. I spent some time with him going over every item. And like Alderman Durkee, I was impressed with the presentation. I did say there was a few areas in there that created some problems for me that I needed to get resolved in my own mind.
 I also want to say to you, Your Honor, any misunderstanding that there might be with my thoughts need to be corrected because I compliment you publicly as being a part of making sure that our department is one of the best we've got in the country. I really want to tell you that publicly. Now, one of the things that bothers me most is the word and the sentence that.
 that talks about bully power it's written in the draft and is written in quotes in as puppies for example it says here what they are going to have is ultimately a strong public reporting requirement that if they start to see things aren't going well the ultimate authority they have is pulling the public's attention to that that sort of bully power is powerful and real that that
 Really disturbed me as to what that really means in terms of what their role is as a oversight board With that kind of language in that I just can't go forward even though 99% of was presented. It's wonderful. It's good, but I didn't make that comment That's the reason why I'm not going to support it this evening and thank you for letting me speak sir alderman McNeely Thank You mr. Mayor I came here tonight and
 prepared to not support this for a number of reasons. But now that I've heard my colleagues, I must change my opinion. And I don't know if some of the things that were said were because some of my colleagues weren't living here in the last 20 years or for some other reason. But there's no question we have had incidents in this city
 that would indicate we need something like this if not this. And for those that don't think we need it, that we're trying to stay socially in vogue, I will list a number of incidents that unnerved me, and the first one being the young bill that was shot and killed on Central Avenue near the church building
 Pilgrim near Pilgrim Church and he was a young young teenager that was in that vacant lot playing by himself With a toy gun and that toy gun the officers that went to address the issue Thought that was a real gun his grandmother. He was visiting with his grandmother black away and his grandmother called the police
 because her grandson had some challenges. And she was trying to help her grandson, and the police were trying to help as well. However, they end up shooting the young teenager and killing him. Something like that, for some of you that spoke tonight, may not consider that to be a matter that would come before this type of board.
 Another incident was one that one of our regular speakers here mentioned earlier tonight which was the young man Balmore and He was pursued to the church and the church has a daycare center in it The young man go went to church there. So he figured that was a safe haven for him he ran in that church went down those stairs to a
 the daycare center. An officer ran behind him and ran downstairs to the daycare center, where the officer, at some point, pulled his gun and shot the young man. And the kids were there. Some of them saw it. They all heard it. And they all needed some attention afterward. That was a case that some of you might not consider something that would come before a board.
 And I'll stop at that point. But I was not prepared to vote on this tonight in favor of it. But because of your comments, I think I have no choice. I do think there is a need for this in this city. This city is no exception. There are hundreds of these type of review committees throughout this country, and some of them have been successful and some of them haven't.
 but that doesn't mean that we shouldn't look at it. It doesn't mean that our city is the exception, that there's no reason for us to even consider it. At least try it and let's see what happens. And I don't believe that the only people you're gonna get are the people that are ready to attack police. We have a fire and police board. Those individuals come from this community. And I don't recall since I've been on council
 there's been any complaint about any of the board members not being just or fair and we have a we have a police call it police committee for for the employees for the police I'm not saying the right word but the residents could say well that's not fair because they're going to be in favor of the police
 99% of the time they are, right? So do we throw that out because they're not being fair? This is something that I think that this body should address, should put it in place, and let's be able to move forward from this, that everything's gonna go just great here in the city of Rockford, and in six months we won't need this. Those are my comments. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Any further discussion on that items before you? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. You know, I would just add, Alderman Frost in particular makes some pretty compelling arguments. I heard them after the last council meeting, but, you know, at the end of the day, um,
 like a lot of things that I don't want to trivialize this but a lot of things you know we still we have the ability to there's you know this is the initial vote we we haven't seen the people who are going to apply we don't know who who's who will come before us to serve you know if I can't imagine the mayor putting names before us that we would not approve but if you know we certainly hold that
 ability still to just not fill these seats if if we feel like Quality people who fit the description of what we're looking for don't step forward I'd be since I'll be surprised if that's the case But if that's the case We don't you know We are we don't have a commission until we where we don't have an oversight board Until we make those appointments, you know as far as the bully pulpit language. I would just I
 suggest to Alderman Beach if he's, if that's a problem for him, he could, as I did, make a motion to amend the document to remove that language and see if it passes, if that one word is all that prevents him from supporting this. I always go back to what Chief Red said when this was introduced to us, which is that the police department has nothing to hide.
 And if that's what the chief, if that, if the chief says that and feels that, I don't know why we should think otherwise. And ultimately, again, if, you know, down the road, we, we decide this is not the, you know, this is not the right fit for our community. Leadership is admitting that you're wrong and we can always undo it. We can always fix it.
 But I I don't see any reason why we should just why we should not approve it And as alderman McNeely said, you know, if not this what and just and try it Thank you. Any other discussion alderman toonberg. Thank you mayor, and I appreciate all the discussion That has occurred since our last meeting and mayor. I know you and I discussed at length some of the issues here and
 I you know if this does pass tonight I want to give you assurance that I will do whatever possible to make this committee work the way it's meant to with that said I do have confidence in our men and women in the Rockford Police Department to do what is right if not
 I am also at the same time confident with the process that is in place currently. Whether a board, such as in this case, changes the minds of a certain few within our community, I'm not confident it will. With that said, there have been statements in the past week or two that have been so outlandish, venomous, and without substance
 that I can't even begin to dignify them with a response. So with that said, again, if this does pass, I will support it to the best of my ability. Thanks. Any other discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. No. Frost. No. Tarina. Frunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye.
 Beach? No. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Aye. Ten ayes, four noes. Thanks. Next, I would ask if council wouldn't mind if I go back to petitions and communications. Alderman McNeely has a discussion item for us. Is there any objection to going back? Alderman McNeely, I believe you had something to bring forward.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. I have a resolution of the City Council of the City of Rockford, submitted by Alderperson Linda McNally, a resolution requesting biannual presentation from Rockford Housing Authority. And the attached will become a part of the record. Thank you. And we will make sure the entire council gets that first thing tomorrow morning.
 alderman tunberg did you have thank you mayor this is uh completely going or is that settled right now yeah yeah we're still on petitions and communications you have a new item go ahead all right we're done with that thank you council for letting me go back uh
 Now we're going to officers' reports. Alderman Tunberg? I was going to actually go for officers' reports. I'm sorry. I was going to see how this goes about legally-wise and all on Planning and Development Committee on a vote. I would like to change a vote on my end for yes on A1 and 3, no on A2. Okay.
 Right after the vote, I realized there was part of that amendment. Yes. I'm sorry. Just so we're all looking. Just so I'm clear, you're talking Planning and Development Committee? Yes. Well, on the Planning and Development Committee, on the vote on items A1, 2, and 3. Okay. And if I could start.
 Okay, so you want, just so I think I have you right, you want the approval of the amendment to the 2021 Annual Action Plan. You voted no. You want it to be reflected as a yes vote. That is perfect. Understood. Thank you. And I am sorry for that. You should be sorry for that. All right, and I am sorry. I'm going back to Finance and Personnel Committee. We have one more item before Officers Report. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Eric.
 uh we have one matter it is the uh committee recommending approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the rockford park district for a collaborative summer youth program the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you thank you we have uh one item before you is there any discussion on this one item other woman mcneely thank you mr mayor i had the opportunity to speak with jennifer earlier today regarding this item and she
 gave me some degree of comfort that the park district the school district and the city will be working toward this this is something that is definitely needed I do hope that the school district step up to the plate more than a hundred percent I would I discussed an item with her and I'll wait to hear from her regarding it but I hope that all of you will support this our kids are in need
 of a system. So, please support this. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion on this item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Kierke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Frente. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes.
 Excellent officers reports moving right along because there's a champion. Oh, no alderman. Thunberg doesn't like football I know alderman. Thunberg is very sure. Oh
 I got your desk over there. Give me a break. Yes, there is a big football game on tonight, and I know much of us are college football fans, so I'll keep it quick. I would just like to thank Alderman Bonney and Alderman Prunty for the Christmas cards. Thank you. That made my Christmas. On a lesser note, or not on a lesser note, on a sadder note, we had a death in my family, and I would like to thank everyone...
 Mayor, too, and for reaching out and the outpouring of support. And I know Alderman Meeks, your father, reached out as well. Thank you. But thank you. It was just an outpouring of support by the community, and the Toonberg family is very appreciative of that. Thank you. We're certainly all thinking about you guys. Alderman Meeks. Yes.
 I just have to send a thank you to the Public Works Department. I've gotten a lot of comments from citizens in the 12th Ward regarding the snow removal from our first and second snowfall this year. And they were very appreciative of the work, especially along our new annexed-in area of Willow Lane.
 So yes, many people in the area are very pleased with the work that you all are doing. So thank you so much. Keep it up. And I look forward to a great winter. Thank you, Kyle. Thank you. I didn't say thank you, Kyle. I know. I know. I'm saying it because I don't want to start a thank you, Kyle, around the horn. We got something to go to tonight. Any other comments? Yes.
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I think most of us are painfully aware of the school shooting at Auburn, which I know there's a press conference and stuff, which I view as actually an intolerable act. I have no idea what's happening, and I know there's a lot of questions being asked, and we're looking for some answers within our community to address questions
 you know, some of these issues. School violence, I have no idea what sometimes goes on. And it's not just restricted, I think, to gunfire, but, you know, we have some teachers here. I was a recovering high school teacher. But they're subjected to verbal violence. And the stuff that goes on sometimes in schools, I have no idea where we've gotten. So what I thought I would do is just share with you some wisdom about,
 that was given by a parent. His name is Darrell Scott. He had a daughter named Rachel. I forget his son's name, but he was one of the parents of Columbine. And Mr. Scott was asked to testify before the House Judiciary Committee following the shooting. And so I thought, as we as a council, as we start to...
 This is something I think we really need to engage with. And I am full agreement with the mayor and some of his comments and the chief that this stuff has to be addressed. And a line has been drawn. I mean, we do not want to see a Columbine in Rockford. I mean, a line has been crossed now.
 And we've now entered, in a sense, a registry of places where school shootings have occurred. This is not a badge of honor, but it is really a call to some deep thought and consideration. So I'll read you his words. Some of it will apply. Some of it may not. But I think the heart of what he's saying has some meaning. And the interesting thing is he said this in 1999. Columbine was 20-some years ago.
 And here we're still facing the same thing, and we're hearing some of the struggling with the same stuff. But here's what he said to the House Judiciary Committee. Since the dawn of creation, there's been both good and evil in the hearts of men and women. We all contain the seeds of kindness or the seeds of violence. The death of my wonderful daughter, Rachel Joy Scott.
 and the deaths of that heroic teacher and all the 11 other children who died must not be in vain. Their blood cries out for answers. The first recorded act of violence was when Cain slew his brother Abel out in the field. The villain was not the club he used, nor was it the NCA, the National Club Association. The true killer was Cain, and the reason for the murder can only be found in Cain's heart.
 In the days that followed the Columbine tragedy, I was amazed at how quickly fingers began to be pointed at groups such as the NRA. I am not a member of the NRA. I am not a hunter. I don't even own a gun.
 I am not here to represent or defend the NRA because I don't believe that they are responsible for my daughter's death. Therefore, I do not believe that they need be defended. If I believed they had anything to do with Rachel's murder, I would be their strongest opponent. I'm here today to declare that Columbine was not just a tragedy. It was a spiritual event. That should be forcing us to look at where the real blame lies.
 Much of the blame lies here in this room. Much of the blame lies behind the pointing fingers of the accusers themselves. I wrote a poem just four nights ago that expresses my feelings best, and this was written before I knew I would be speaking here today. This poem reads, Your laws ignore our deepest needs. Your words are of empty air. You stripped away our heritage. You've outlawed simple prayer.
 Now gunshots fill our classrooms and precious children die. You seek for answers everywhere and ask the question, why? You regulate restrictive laws through legislative creed, and yet you fail to understand that God is what we need. Men and women are three-part beings.
 We all consist of body, soul, and spirit. And when we refuse to acknowledge the third part of that makeup, we create a void that allows evil, prejudice, and hatred to rush in and wreak havoc. Spiritual presences were present with our educational systems for most of our nation's history. Many of our major colleges began as theological seminaries. This is a historical fact. What has happened to us as a nation?
 We have refused to honor God, and in so doing, we open the doors to hatred and violence. And when something as terrible as Columbine tragedy occurs, politicians immediately look for scapegoats. They immediately seek to pass more restrictive laws that contribute to erode away our personal and private liberties.
 We do not need more restrictive laws. Eric and Dylan, who are the shooters, by the way, would not have been stopped by metal detectors. No amount of gun laws can stop someone who spent months planning this type of massacre. The real villain lies within our own hearts. Political posturing and restrictive legislation are not the answers. The young people of our nation hold the key. There is a spiritual awakening taking place that should not be squelched.
 We do not need more religion. We do not need more gaudy television evangelists spewing out religious verbal religious garbage. We do not need more million dollar church buildings built while people with basic needs are being ignored. We do need a change of heart and a humble acknowledgement that this nation was founded on the principles of a simple trust in God. As my son Craig lie under the table in that school library,
 and saw his two friends murdered before his very eyes, he did not hesitate to pray in school. I defy any law or politician to deny him that right. I challenge every young person in America and around the world to realize that on April 20, 1999, at Columbine School, prayer was brought back into the schools.
 Do not let the many prayers offered by those students be in vain. Dare to move into a new millennium with sacred disregard for legislation that violates your God-given communication with him. To those of you who point at the NRA or others, I give you a sincere challenge. Dare to examine your own heart before casting the first stone. My daughter's death will not be in vain. The young people of this country will not allow that to happen.
 I think these are extremely wise words. I think as we start looking at some of the violence, the disrespect, and the stuff that's going on in public schools directed towards students among themselves and directed toward the faculty and the staff, I think we need to take a bold, new, creative look at that. And there's a lot of churches in this town who this guy's talking to. Got a lot of nice buildings. Got a lot of hungry people.
 We've got a lot of nice cars in the parking lot. We've got a lot of kids that are in need that could use some significant adult mentorship in their lives. So at this point in time, when we have a school shooting, it's time to put up or shut up. So some of you churches out there, it's time. Youth for Christ, all these things happening.
 They need to be welcomed back into our schools, whatever the religious organization is, whatever it is that can change the heart and soul of kids. Government programs don't do that.
 They don't. Good solid homes do that and the mayor with his initiatives with domestic violence and some of these things to restore Sanity in some of these homes. These are all very important things. These are the root things That we do but it but my goodness if we look to keep doing the same thing over and over again This stuff is is going to happen happen. You know just not that long ago in Florida. I
 So that's just my comment. I thought Mr. Scott's words were extremely wise. Like I said, some of it is not applicable, but the gist of it is exceedingly important for this town. So kudos to Mr. Scott for stepping up and sharing that with Congress 20 years ago. Thank you. Thank you.
 alderman rose your honor um just wanted to comment off of that i i too have had some violence in my ward uh where a young uh three-year-old lost his life um and it's staggering at the level of violence that we're facing as a community especially during covid but a few things i came across in my life that were really important around this issue is that number one as we were
 you know, it was a different time and a different day, but if you were around firearms, you saw them as something you didn't touch as a young kid. And my parents, my father owned firearms. We grew up around firearms, but we came from a background that...
 You just did not play with them. And I remember the DARE program in our schools that was one of those things that kept me away from doing things like marijuana and hard drugs. I wish there was a program like that in and around our area that focused around gun safety and not touching guns as young people. Because they're not toys.
 They're just not, and we've become a society that went from having firearms in schools with training for pre-military programs to one that we don't have them. And I'm not recommending that we go back to that, but what I am recommending is that young people do not understand that these things are not toys. Okay.
 And that when you point one at someone, you are endangering the lives of so many people that when young children are around these, that they are going to pick them up and they are going to shoot someone or themselves.
 And so it's just, it's ridiculous that you would have to say that to a person who has a firearm. Now, I realize that a good portion of those firearms are owned illegally, that there are issues with our gun laws. I 100% believe that we need to get rid of the gun show loophole, which in the case of Columbine was the reason that those young men were able to get those firearms. Okay.
 We oftentimes treat firearms like it's something you can just order over the Internet, like a baseball bat. And that just simply should not be able to happen. And Illinois has real good firearm laws. The Foyd laws have kept over 40,000 people who are abusive members of society from getting firearms the last 10 years. That's a stat. That's a fact.
 so we need to have common-sense gun laws and I think we have those but getting rid of the gun show loophole is one of those that that's how gangs get their guns they get them in private sales where they go on tract that's where gangs get a lot of their firearms they can know they can go to a gun show and they can buy a gun with no background check
 mean that just makes absolute no sense and so that I'm a gun owner I you know people know about my circumstances but there's a responsibility with them that that comes with that and I used to sell firearms as well and I think it's it's
 it's absolutely just egregious to have open firearms with kids in the house and and so we need to do something around that around educating the public of locking them up if you have kids in your home lock up your firearms because there's way too many firearms out in our community with young young people thank you thank you I would just add I think lots of good things being said
 Three quick things. I won't dive into too many details, but I do think our faith community throughout the city of Rockford really does need to stand up and start taking more action in our neighborhoods, at our schools. I will say we're fortunate, actually,
 the day after that shooting or maybe two days after I had a meeting with faith leaders and I have one every month and Had a really strong representation at this sometimes we'll have 80 or 90 faith leaders. Sometimes they'll be 20 or 30 But had a really good showing I would say Minister Flanagan also, I Always want to call him pastor, but mr. Flanagan is
 helped us really create a program that we're now at Guildford Auburn Risa Kennedy and West And we're seeing other organizations step up. We're seeing pastors and ministers along with Lane again step up as well To be at our schools at those five schools specifically as they are being dismissed because they were seeing a tremendous amount of violence towards the end of their days and
 at dismissal time. And there's other organizations, you know, Youth Services Network, YMCA, Park District and some others that are participating in that as well. I know I'm missing some. Other thing is, and I'm not gonna speak to the specific individuals involved in this incident,
 But one thing that we continue to hear at this council floor and through lots of communication from the Office of Domestic and Community Violence is trauma. These young people have experienced some really, really difficult and awful things.
 Not every single one of them, but more far more often than not and that trauma goes Unmitigated throughout our community so that I think that should be a call to action for all of us to wrap our arms around those Young people at every turn that we can the last thing I would say is it was a really horrific day there was
 I will say a huge credit, Chief Red, to you, your team, the Rockford Public Schools, the partnership afterwards, and the work that the officers did to make sure that the suspects were caught. So thank you. With that, we'll keep going to motions and resolutions. Still got a lot of an agenda here. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 under motions and resolutions item number one the city of Rockford guiding principles and then item number two the proposed appointment of Todd Cagnone city administrator as the land bank trustee thank you just want to say at the beginning I've heard a lot of concerns about item two I can't vouch for character I can't vouch for integrity no
 No, any questions or concerns about the items before us? Alderman Frost. You know, I had about 42 questions about item number two. Maybe I swear Mr. Cagnoni ended up asking some questions. I'm kidding. I have no questions. I was like, what did he, did he give me any papers here? All right, any other questions? None. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toombert. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye to the board. I'm saying aye to the board.
 You know the way. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Bonnie. Item number one, 13 ayes, one no. Item number two, 13 ayes, one abstain. It's not quite unanimous. We'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is the 2022 Walk for Life. This event is scheduled for Saturday, January 15th from 11 AM to 1 PM. The gathering place for the event will be 327 South Church Street, which will be followed by a walkthrough through downtown Rockford. Item 2 is a motion to reconsider the amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Article 3, Video Gaming Terminals, Section 142 through 144 and Section 147.
 Under that item, I move to reconsider the ordinance approving amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Article 3, Video Gaming Terminals Section 142 through 144 and Section 147.
 thank you so we have a motion uh director meyer do you want to just explain uh why alderman rose is doing this sure thank you mr mayor so the last uh city council meeting there was a uh an amendment to our liquor code that provided that the terminal operators would be responsible for the payment of the 250 dollar uh
 video gaming terminal fee. After that, right around that time, there was an amendment to our state statute that called for that fee to be split by statute 50% by the terminal operator and 50% by the owner of the establishment.
 So we need to make sure that our ordinance fits with the state code. So in order to do that, we need to first reconsider, pass a motion to reconsider the ordinance, which is what we're doing here. And then later on in the agenda, we will amend that to reflect the state statute and then a vote to readopt. Excellent. So we approved something in essence just recently, and now the state law has changed. We've got to bring it back in a different form.
 So, thank you. First, I'm going to take Alderman Rose's motion to reconsider. We need a second for that motion. We have a motion. We have a second from Alderman Durkee. We'll just take just that first one. Is there any discussion on that motion? All those in favor of the motion, say aye. Those opposed? Okay. So now we have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items?
 all those in favor say aye aye those opposed same sign excellent next we'll go to finance and personnel alderman frost thank you number one is an award of bid for the demolition group 21 to end track of lust park the amount of eighty two thousand six hundred and fifteen dollars
 For various properties, the funding source is the Community Development Block Grant and Construction Services Division Operating Budget. Number two is an award of bid for the demolition of 1800 Broadway to N-Track in the amount of $309,174. The funding source is the CDBG. Number three is an award of bid for the fire station generator installations for various fire stations to both Engel Electric and Miller Engineering.
 In the amount of $91,512 and $520,745, the funding source is the American Rescue Plan Act funds. Number five is an award of bid for window replacements to fire stations 256 and the fire shop to Shelstrom & Sons. In the amount of $118,600, the funding source is the American Rescue Plan Act funds.
 Number five is an award of non-competitive contract for radio equipment to Rock River Service Company of Rockford in the amount of $101,113.92. This is a one-time purchase. The funding source is the ARPA funds and the fire department operating budget. Number six is an award of non-competitive contract for pre-incident planning software to first due of Garden City, New York, in the amount of $30,000. The contract duration is annual.
 The funding source is assistance to firefighters grant program grant funds and the fire department operating budget. Number seven is award of RFP for the collection services to LifeQuest Services of Wautoma, Wisconsin at various rates of collection. The contract duration is for one year with four additional possible one year extensions. The funding source is deducted from collected ambulance, false alarm, parking, garbage, or ordinance violation fees and fines collected. Number eight is the award of engineering agreement for the 9th Street reconstruction.
 in brook road improvements to cfs of belvedere in the amount of 141 thousand dollars the project is estimated to be completed in march 2022 the funding source is sales tax
 number nine is an award of engineering agreement for the Wyman Street South parking deck structural repair plans to Walker consultants in the amount of 25 000 the project is estimated to be completed by December 2022 the funding source is the parking fund operating budget and lastly number 10 is an award of engineering agreement for the main North parking deck structural repair plans
 to Walker Consultants in the amount of $50,000. The project is estimated to be completed by December 2022. The funding source is the Parking Fund Operating Budget. I place those 10 items before you. Thank you. And, Council, we do have an 11th item that I'm going to have Director Meyer read.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We do have one item that was passed at committee this evening that did not make it on the council agenda. I apologize. I should have caught that. That is the approval of the grant application for the DCEO rebuild downtown in Main Streets. The grant amount was the $2,087,966.27. I'm going to ask to have that also be placed up for passage this evening because it is time-sensitive.
 we need to have that grant application in this evening. We are in compliance, although it's not on the council agenda, we are in compliance with the Open Meetings Act. Because if you look at the front page of our city council agenda, it does alert the public that anything that's presented at a standing committee meeting
 Anything on the standing committee report agenda can also be passed at council. So we have had this issue come up a long, long time ago, and that was found to be compliant with the Open Meetings Act. So typically we wouldn't ask that, but because of the timeliness issue, I would ask that the chair read that in and place that up for passage as well.
 So that 11th item is that support for Madison Street grant that we'll get through the DCO Main Street grant program. So there's 11 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 11 items? Alderman Beach. Thank you. I know they said the amount of money was a little over $2 million, and it was a grant. Does a grant cover all of it, or is part of it, or what do we pay for it, and where does it come from?
 Director Saunders? Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Beach, for this particular grant application, the funding request is just north of $2 million. We're estimating the total construction cost as well as construction engineering is going to be about $2.9 million. So we are asking for roughly $2.1 million from DCEO, and then the remaining portion would be provided by a local match.
 So we'd be matching this grant at 70-30, 70% coming from the funding agency, the other 30 coming from a combination of sales tax and REIA funding, which is our water capital fund. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Any further discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frenzy.
 Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. We'll move right along to new business planning and development committee Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor.
 under a item number one an ordinance approving the 2022 funding agreement with Rockford Area Economic Development Council or our a EDC item number two an ordinance approving the 2022 annual action plan item number three an ordinance approving the amendment to the 2021 annual action plan item number four an ordinance approving the funding
 Long-term loan for the capitalization of a community development financial institution, CDFI, in partnership with the Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation and the Rockford Local Development Corporation and local financial institutions. And last, item number five, an ordinance approving the subrecipient agreement with the Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity for a critical residential repair program.
 thank you your honor thank you council we have uh five items before you is there any discussion on those five items clerk will you please call the roll turkey logeman timber frost terena frunty wilkins hoffman rose beach quinones meeks mcneely bonnie
 Item number 1, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 3 noes. Item number 3, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Items 4 and 5, 13 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. We're moving right along. I'll go to Code and Regulations Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, an ordinance approving the variation to increase the maximum fence height permitted in the front yard from 4 feet to 6 feet along 19th Street in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 2303 16th Avenue. Item 2, an ordinance approving the request to enact an Illinois Environmental Protection Agency recognized citywide groundwater use ordinance for the city of Rockford.
 Item 3, an ordinance approving the annexation of 747 Waveland Avenue. Item 4, an ordinance establishing a civilian oversight board. And item 5, an ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Article 3, video gaming terminals section 142 through 144 and section 147. Under item 5, I'd like to make a motion to amend the ordinance approving
 Amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code Article 3, Video Gaming Terminals Section 142 through 144 and Section 147 as follows. Under Section 3-143, Paragraph A, the City's Video Gaming Terminal sticker fee shall be paid equally by terminal operator and the permitted establishment. That's all. Thank you.
 So you have five items, but item five has an amendment. Correct. So we'll take that amendment first. Yep. So we have an amendment. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on the amendment? So we'll just take up the amendment. All those in favor of the amendment say aye. Aye. Those opposed to the amendment say aye. Okay. So now we have five items, and number five has been amended. Any discussion on those five items?
 Clerk, will you please call the vote? Durkee? No, I'm for. Logerman? Aye. Tunberg? No, I'm for. I am against. Frost? No, I'm for. I am in favor. Tarina? Prunty? Wilkins? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Items number 1, 2, 3, and 5, 14 ayes. Item number 4, 10 ayes, 4 noes.
 Excellent. We'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the renewal of the Intergovernmental Agreement for an electronic citation program between the City of Rockford and the Woodbury County Circuit Clerk.
 Number two is an ordinance approving the memorandum of understanding with askme-c regarding the payment of recruitment, retention, and perfect attendance incentive to Head Start staff. Number three is an ordinance approving the memorandum of understanding with community partners for the Rockford Citywide Health Literacy Initiative grant funded by the U.S. Department of Health. That's been held out. That's been held out. I'm sorry.
 And lastly, number four is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Park District for a collaborative summer youth program. I place those three matters before you. Thank you. So item three was held out, so we've got three items before us, one, two, and four. Any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney. 14 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? I move. Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Alderwoman Wilkinson, do you want us to go back to any sections? All right, we have a motion, we have a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.