Good evening. Good evening, everyone. We will call to order our meeting tonight. So we will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Tuesday, January 16th, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman.
 Here.
 Beach. Here. Barrios. Here. Bailey. Here. Ten present. Here. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. This evening we are fortunate to have Chaplain Roy Whitmore here with us this evening to provide us an invocation. Father God, we thank you, Lord, for this time. Thank you for another year you have brought this council together. Lord, bless us, Lord. Let your blessing, let your wisdom and understanding be upon this council that we may make good decisions. And, Lord, we just invoke your presence and your guidance, and we thank you for it now. In Jesus' name, amen. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the journal and proceedings for the city council meeting held on December 4, 2023? Yes. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on January 8, 2024? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any other discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Also, Clerk Alderman Logman's in. We're good. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to petitions and communications. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one was on the Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on January 17, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 22, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on January 17th, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 22nd, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. 3. A memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 104 Atwood Avenue, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. 4. A memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 1945 Black Hawk Road, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. 5. A memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 4500 Spring Creek Road, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. 6. A memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 4500 Spring Creek Road, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. And lastly, number six, a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic and Development Engineer, regarding the request of an honorary street name change on Court Street to John Briggs Way, referred to the Quota Regulation Committee. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. All three of these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from Owen Carter, Deputy Director of Operations for Health and Human Services, regarding the acceptance of additional funds required. For the IDHS rapid rehousing program grant award number two is a memorandum from Michelle Pankow Fire chief regarding the acceptance of the Winnebago County Community Mental Health Board mobile integrated health Mental health program grant award number three is a memorandum from Ann Wilkerson general central services manager Regarding an amendment to the fee schedule. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Next, we're going to move into our public speakers. We have four public speakers this evening. I want to remind our public speakers, there's a microphone on the back right, as well as the back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the city council. You'll hear a phone alarm go off. I hope if it works, a phone alarm go off asking you to call your comments to a close. And with that, our first public speaker this evening is Pamela Harding. Good evening, and thank you for allowing me to address my concerns. I was at last week's City Council meeting It was both disheartening and disturbing to see the division and strife in this council in the discussion Regarding a welcome sign of all things and where it came from was brought up and then to actually hear one of you say that they don't see that there's a problem with crime in Rockford and Illinois is listed as one of the top 15 states with the highest percentage of illegal immigrants, despite what our current government leadership is stating. Between Illinois being a sanctuary state, the Safety Act, and the planes flying into our region and state, in the dark of night, we're heading into a perfect storm. We're seeing it in every sanctuary city all across America, including Chicago. I suggest that it's time for you to put away your political viewpoints and the evident animosity and bias between some of you. Come to the table in order to work together before this turns into a literal disaster in this region. It's what you've been elected to do, and I thank you for your time. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 106th chapter, The third verse, it says, bless our they who maintain justice, who constantly do what is right. What I want to speak about tonight, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was not a dreamer. On the night before Dr. King was assassinated, he was talking so strong. But after he was assassinated, they reduced him to a dream. Every time they mentioned Dr. King's name, he is a dreamer. But they did not kill our brother because he dreamed. Go and Google search the terms Dr. King and the last night of his life. And you will find a speech where Dr. King was talking about freedom, Justice, equality, and Dr. King was talking about land. Dr. King knew death was on him. And he told the people at Mason Temple in Memphis, Tennessee on April the 3rd, 1968. In his speech, I've been to the mountaintop. We have to redistribute the pain when we're in pain. We got to make them feel pain. That's what he said. Tomorrow, tell the neighbors, don't buy sealed test milk. Tell the neighbors, don't buy Coca-Cola. Tell the neighbors, don't buy the vaccine. Don't buy wonder bread. Tell the neighbors, don't buy hot bread. He said, we don't have to argue with anybody. We don't have to curse and go acting like fools. We don't need any bricks and bottles. We don't need any Molly cocktail. We just need to go around to these stores and to these massive industries in our country and say, God sent us here to say to you that you're not treating these children right. And we come here to... to ask you to make the first item on your agenda, fair treatment, where God's children are concerned. Now, if you're not prepared to do that, we do have an agenda that we must follow, and our agenda calls for withdrawing economic support from you. This is Dr. King. He said we in 1960 made $30 billion or more out of American income. Now, the other thing we have to do is put our trust. in God always anchor external direct action with the power of economic withdrawal now we are poor people individually. We are poor when you compare us with white society in America. We are poor. Never stop and forget that collectively that means all of us together collectively we are richer than all the nations in the world with the exception of man. Did you know that? After you leave the United States, Soviet Russia, Great Britain, West Germany, France, and I could name the others, the American Negro collectively is richer than most nations of the world. We have an annual income of more than $30 billion a year, which is more than all of the exports of the United States and more than a national budget of capital. Did you know that? That's power right there. But here in the year 24, the blacks have $1,6,985,575,455. That's power, power enough to open up our own business, power enough to open up our own hospitals and clinics and put our people to work. This would help reduce the sickness in the black community. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, and Happy New Year. Good evening to all the persons, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. And most of all, good evening to those who's watching tonight, because I do hear a lot of comments. They tone in just to hear what we got to say. You know, we got two... national holidays. We got a whole month we celebrate Black History Month, but never once do you see us flying our red, black and green flag, none of the time. Dr. King mentioned during his dream and also piggybacking off what he said, his last speech was that I've been to the mountaintop. I may not be there with you, but we as a people will get to the promised land. He also mentioned in his dream, the promise of the land. white men, black men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will one day be seated at the table of brotherly love. One day. But that dream has yet to be fulfilled. We even have our African American peoples who have gotten jobs in places where they're supposed to come back and help, but have not. That has not happened. This past year, I want to thank the community. We went to $106,589.86. The month of December, we went to $15,000. Guess what? None of that money came from regrowth, nor did it come from 205, live, learn, and play. Every one of them red cents came from the people's. in the community. We plan on this year in February recognizing we're gonna do the color purple. When we do the color purple, not only are we gonna watch the movie, but we're gonna have a conversation about the color purple and we're gonna talk about domestic violence and systematic racism. It's very important that we have the chief of police, the chief of the fire department, the chief, the mayor, and the Winnebago County boom integrity task force and a few others that we promised to be in there. I'm going to remind y'all once upon a time, uh, My name was not Brother John. My name was known as Maniac Tack. I was the leader of the Pipetown Gangster Cherokee Rangers. I was also the leader of the Pee Wees and the Black Panther Party. The Black Panther Party was not a myth. Fred Hampton was a relative. Hillary P. Newton was the founder. Angela Davis was the They was my relative. Back then when I was known as Maniac Tack, I had a deep hatred towards 5-0, a very deep hatred. It wasn't until I was saved before I changed my attitude towards 5-0. So instead of bashing them or trying to kill them, we have learned to work together with them for the betterment of our future generation. Our kids made history at the school board meeting when I was trying to get in 12 minutes, that each one of the kids I had to speak that's once bullied, that was the first time they ever had elementary kids to speak at a school board meeting that was African-American speaking about our after-school program. Right now, the learn, live, and play, they've been focusing. Thank you, Mr. Degg. All right. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Next public speaker this evening is Michael O'Neill. Thank you. Good evening, everybody. The mayor, city council members. I was at the meeting last week as well, and I was sitting there and I realized I was born here, and this is my hometown, and that was the first city council meeting I've ever been at. So I just thinking well, what if that goes viral, you know 150,000 people show up You might need some more chairs here, you know, but Anyway, I there's a couple of points I'd like to talk about but you have three minutes So you don't have a whole lot of time to say so I'm going to try to make a point I hope that people listen or at least hear the point I chose to talk about the the signs of welcoming people and you can take it both ways you can talk to say that it's welcoming all people which is good and then some people had concern because it was maybe welcoming people we have an unprecedented amount of people coming across the border and I know there's division and there's different opinions on this issue but what I want to say is that I would ask the mayor and the City Council that I feel like this whole thing is under the radar. I think it needs to be brought up in public domain. It needs to be public discussed. It needs to be accountable. So what we're going to be, I know Chicago is a sanctuary city. They're kind of being overrun with people who have come into this country, walked across the border. Governor Pritzker said he's going to start taking them and transforming them or shipping them or out to other places, out downstate. Some cities said no, we're not going to, and they voted to make themselves a non-sanctuary city. But I think that this needs to be brought to the light, discussed publicly, and we need to decide what we're doing. And there's opinions on both sides. Part of it is because it's a pressing point. You know, and there's a point of how long, my sense is we might already be doing this, but if we are, where are these people being housed? You know, how much does it cost? What impact does it have on the community? There's another thing is these are not just shipping containers full of products. These are people, okay? And that's probably one of the major reasons we want this discussed publicly. You're dealing with people, okay? Are these people being cared for? If we're housing these people, what's happening to them? When you're under the radar, you know, some of these human trafficking, I mean, it's real, okay? I'm not saying that this is going on, but until you get this thing above board, you don't know. So whatever your opinion is, City Council and Mayor, I would appreciate that you would bring this to a public discussion. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we're going to move to our new committee reports. We don't have new committee reports. We have nothing under all three committees, so we'll go to unfinished business. And we don't have anything under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trent. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items. Item number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 205 West State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 752 and 908 West Riverside Boulevard. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. So, counsel, we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logoman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost, Tarina, Wilkins, Hoffman, Beach, Barrios, Bailey, Bonnie. Item number one, four ayes, six noes. And item number two, five ayes and five noes. Thank you. Next, if you don't mind, I'll move officers' reports to the bottom here. The appointment laid over remains laid over. I would urge if you have any questions or concerns or comments, please feel free to reach out to myself or Mr. Joel Zirkle himself. You should have his contact information. We'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development or codes and regulations, so we'll go to finance and personnel and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Governor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the East High Zone Water Tower preliminary engineering report to Strand Associates of Madison in the amount of $70,000. The project is estimated to be completed by the end of 2024, and the funding source is the water replacement improvement account. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an award of a non-competitive contract for performance evaluation onboarding and learning management systems to include police, to NEOGOV, HR, and to the NEOGov. The initial annual administration fee is $29,974, which includes implementation and training, with an increase in year two to $37,461, and year three to $49,948. The contract duration is one year, with the ability to renew annually for two additional years. The funding source is the general fund. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for RSA Security ID Plus product to Entrez Computers in the amount of $118,478. Of that, $15,446 is for professional services support and $103,032 is for the ID Plus licenses for three years. The contract is for three years. The funding source is the Information Technology Fund Operating Budget. Number four, the committee recommends approval of an award of joint purchasing contract for the NetApp infrastructure storage upgrade to Insight Public Sector of Tempe, Arizona in the amount of $150,134. The contract duration is three years, and the funding source is the Information Technology Fund Operating Budget. Number five, the committee recommends approval of an award of joint purchasing contract for the wireless access points to SmartWave Alpharetta, Georgia, in the amount of $45,119. The contract duration is three years. The funding source is the Information Technology Fund operating budget. I place these five minutes before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, counsel, we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logerman. Alderman Logerman. Thank you, Alderman. tumor frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Beach Barrios Bailey Bonnie tonight excellent next we're gonna go to new business We have nothing under planning and development and we have nothing under finance personnel so go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina and Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 205 West State Street, and number two, an ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 752 and 908 West Riverside Boulevard. Thank you. Thank you. So we have two items before us. Neither of them received a majority last time, so we have two items before us. Is there any discussion? Alderman Bonney? Thank you, Mayor. I would move that we lay over items one and two. Okay. We have a motion to lay over items one and two. Is there any discussion? Is there a second to lay over items one and two? Okay. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion on the layover of items 1 and 2? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. Beach. No. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Is it aye? Yes. Okay. And Bonnie. Five ayes, five noes. For the layover. Do I get to vote on them? Aye. I'd vote to lay it over. Six ayes. Six ayes, five noes. Okay. Does any council member have any officers' reports? Alderman Hoffman. Alderman Hoffman Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say there is a lot of confusion in this community about what is happening with immigrants, refugees, etc. So my group, the American Association of University Women, is talking about putting together a community-wide meeting. We already have a couple people that have said they would love to join us and now we're working on others. We're meeting Friday and we're already working on trying to find a facility. I will be contacting you for additional help. Because a lot of people don't understand the law and are calling people Illegal that are not illegal. It's just causing more and more confusion so we are trying to put together a Program that would be accessible to all of the community to come in and hear firsthand. What is going on? So thank you. Thanks, Alderman Tumberg. Thanks mayor. I obviously we had a lot of snow and a constituent reached out and was asking if the city may be in contact with the media on Even the news stations and such people may get a little confused when the Weather Service calls off a snow warning something like that but that doesn't necessarily mean our our Snow emergency odd even has been canceled and so really getting that word out there I think we've done a good job, but maybe the news media could assist in this matter as well to, again, make that point that until the city calls off our snow emergency, that odd-even parking is still in effect, even though the National Weather Service has called off their emergency. So, thank you. Anything we can do to help the odd-even situation? SECRETARY POMPEO Absolutely. Thank you. Other reports? Alderman Berrios. ALDERMAN BERRIOS Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, I wanted to thank the public works for the great job in this snowstorm. They did a fantastic job cleaning up the streets and all the – and also salting the streets. Thank you for your effort. I received a bunch of phone calls from the citizens about if we doing anything about cleaning the alleys, and I didn't have no answer. So is there any future programs that we can maybe come up with to clean up the alleys? Thank you. SECRETARY POMPEO- Director Saunders. Yes, Alderman Barrios, and I know there's quite a few aldermen that have had challenges with alleys over the past several years. This is the first year that we're piloting a citywide plowing program where we are looking to address the alleys. This last snowstorm, we did get one pass through alleys early in the day yesterday. Early in the operation Friday into Saturday Obviously that that additional snow we saw Saturday did cover up a lot of the progress that we made But we are working with our contractor. We've got all of our maps updated and we are going to be incorporating that into our overall program so Certainly there will be a few that will miss as we're kind of ramping up that program and getting a good feel for it But I did go out and check as well as our street superintendent Mitch Leatherby. We We did notice several alleys that have been known problems in the past that did get at least one pass through. And I know Alderman Logerman was in contact with this as well, just kind of voicing some of the ones that were missed by the contractor. So we're working to clean those up. So our contractor will be in town tomorrow bringing a skid loader into town to kind of help get into some of these tighter areas. So if there's any alley in particular that stands out, I'd be happy to get that on their list. Thank you. Any other reports? Yes. Alderman Bailey yeah, I'd like to publicly thank the Rockford ministers alliance for the MLK event on Monday. I like the theme unity We certainly need to work on unity in our community. Thank you. Thank you Just so you're all aware one of the ministers fellowship events was cancelled from a Sunday evening and now will be held this coming Sunday. Trying to find where that is here. Bear with me just so I can give you the location. I can't pull up the location. I know it's at 6 p.m. I know it's at Pastor Maurice West Sr.'s church, and I feel... I think it's St. Paul Church of God in Christ. Thank you. St. Paul Church of God in Christ at 6 p.m. 1-0-0-1 Bishop Washington Avenue, 6 p.m. this coming Sunday at St. Paul Church of God in Christ. And we need to verify that day because I thought it was next Sunday. Yep, this coming Sunday. Okay. Any other reports? Is there a motion to adjourn? Motion. We have a motion. We have a second. Anyone want to discuss the adjournment? No? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night. All right.