Dirkie. Dirkie. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson. Levenson.
 Here. I have nine, Your Honor. Nine present. Did you hear me, Linda McNally? Yes, I did. Okay. You're right. So... Yeah, let me just help real quick. So...
 I want to just confirm the report that we have Alderman Hervey, we have Alderman Rose, we have Alderman Tumberg, we have Alderman Neely, Alderman Kaufman, Alderman Robin, Alderman Hanley, Alderman Beach, Alderman Frost. And I think I said Hanley twice, I meant Hervey. My apologies. We have Alderman Quinones, we have Alderman Durkee. Am I missing any Aldermen with that? No.
 Okay, so that would be 11, Your Honor. Thank you. And just one thing I'm noting is when the clerk is calling our names, if others have their microphone not muted, it reverberates and we hear her say the name three or four times. So just a reminder as we counsel just to
 Leave yourself when you're not speaking or taking a vote. So with that, we get to try this again. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on December 21st, 2020? So moved. Second, Hosey. We have a motion by Alderman Beach. We have a second by Alderman Hogan. And, Clark, could you please call the roll? There, Keith. Aye. Aye.
 Logerman? Aye. Toonbert? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Keonis? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? I have ten ayes, your honor. Can I ask which alderman you don't have? I don't have Hoffman and Durkee.
 Okay, Dirkie, where are you at? You know, who knows what planet I'm at lately, but I'm an eye. Okay. All right.
 We are moving right along. We have no proclamations this evening, so we'll move to petitions and communications. We have a planning and development item. Number one, memorandum from Deb Dorsey, housing and program manager, regarding approval of the 2021 annual action plan. It's being referred to planning and development committee. Thank you.
 We have Code and Regulation Committee, item one. Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on January 20th, 2021. And minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on January 25th, 2021. We've filled the codes and rights committee.
 Item two, liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda for the meeting to be held on January 20th, 2021 and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on January 22th, 2021. That's been referred as well. Item three, memorandum from La Fueria Vaughn, assistance for the attorney regarding the proposed right of way vacation ordinance for a portion of Gardner Avenue located east of rural Oak Shopping Center, referred to codes and regs.
 Item 4, memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding the designation of a deputy clerk, ex-officio, keeper of record seal for the city of Rockford, refers to closing rights.
 Item 5, Memorandum from Scott Capovilla, Planning and Zoning Manager regarding the tentative plot of Kilburn Point subdivision referred to Coats and Rags. Item 6, Memorandum from Scott Capovilla, Planning and Zoning Manager regarding the final plot of Kilburn Point subdivision referred to Coats and Rags Committee. We have no items under Finance and Personnel and I believe Alderman McNeely may have an item. I do.
 Give me a second here, please. Pull it up. Of course. Sorry, I'm trying to pull it up here. Alderman McNeely, would you like me to come back to it so you have some time to find it? I'm opening it now, if you don't mind. Of course. I would like to...
 THIS IS REGARDING A CANNABIS RESOLUTION AND I WOULD LIKE TO REFER A RESOLUTION FOR REPURITIVE RACIAL JUSTICE MEASURES FUNDED BY TAX COLLECTIVE FROM THE LEGALIZATION OF MARIJUANA TO THE FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE TO BE CONSIDERED AT ITS NEXT MEETING THANK YOU
 Thank you Alderman Mcdean. Next up public speakers. We've already went through our public speakers where we just had one this evening. Next is new committee reports. Item A, planning and development. There's no items under it. Item B, code and regulation committee. No items under it. Item C, finance and personnel committee. All right, Frost would you like me to read these in? Sure, you'll be fine.
 Number one, committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $3,686,342.85 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on January 11, 2021.
 Item 2, committee recommends approval of the amendment of the Intergovernmental Agreements for Records Management System, RMS, project with the municipalities listed below. The legal director shall prepare their appropriate ordinances. The municipalities listed below are the City of West Park, City of Rockford, City of South Florida, Rock Valley College.
 Rockford Park District, Village of Cherry Valley, Village of Duran, Village of Pecatonica, Village of Broughton, Village of Roscoe, Village of Winnebago, and Winnebago County. We have two items before you, Alderman. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call a roll on those two items? Gerke? Aye. Wilberman? Aye. Timberg? Taft? Aye. Aye.
 Kirby? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Alderman Beach? No. Keonis? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 11 ayes, Your Honor.
 Thank you. Item D is being held out at this time. Wrong numeral six, appointments laid over. We have one appointment at that for consideration. That's an appointment of Crystal Saltow to the Community Action Agency Board to fill a vacant private sector position. She will serve a three-year term.
 The next item is Item 2, Appointment of Ingrid A. Hargrove to the Rockford Fire and Police Board of Commissioners to replace Jessica Jones. She would serve a three-year term. That item is made over for 30 days automatically. So we have one item before you that comes in Crystal Saltile to the Community Action Agency Board. Is there any discussion? No.
 Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey. It may just be me, but it just seems like the information that we're getting for some of the candidates for these positions is just kind of sparse. I would like to know if we could ask for Ms. Hargrove to give us a more detailed description.
 unless there's something other than her biography and I missed it, but that simply did not give me the kind of information that I'm looking for. It was fantastic as supplemental, but I think if we're going to, that's one of the most important boards that we have and they've got a lot of work coming up potentially. I'd like to know a little bit more about her experience and I know of her
 Kind of know her a little bit, but I wanted to see more than that. About her in this photo. I think there's just a 1 item resume. It just seems that they're very vague. As to the people, their experience, and. I was disappointed in the kind of information we got so thank you.
 Yeah, we can obviously take some time to get Crystal Saltow's resume. I can't speak too much to that one just because I wasn't pointing it to you. But for Ms. Hargrove, we'll certainly get you further information. If you want to send me a note of what specifics you'd like, we'll certainly work to get that for everyone.
 And that goes to any other man. If you have specific information, we'd love to get that to you. Also want to make sure that you all have her phone number so that you can reach out to her because as Alderman Ruby stated, it's a very important position. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that item? Your Honor,
 Just a comment that sort of echoes what Alderman Hervey just said. Anyway, I read the material on crystal salt tile, and it just seems pretty thin material.
 For an important board, so because of that, I don't know. And I, we know what we see on paper. And because of that, because of this sketchy sort of biography and past, I can't support her candidacy. Understood Thank you any other discussion.
 Alderman Tinberg. I guess if there is questions regarding this or future positions on some of these boards, maybe it would be easier for us aldermen to be, if they did come as a referral from someone in either an alderman or administration, maybe if we...
 Had that information, some of us could reach out to that individual as well. Almost almost like a letter of recommendation in a way. Or referral source, but it could be useful. Thanks absolutely. And just so you are aware if you weren't.
 previously the community action agency I'm not the only appointee individual to that so this specific position was put up by I believe it was owned county no I'm sorry the city of Belvedere I believe it was an actual appointee so Mayor Mike Chamberlain was a person appointee in the salt town
 Okay, yeah, I'm sorry. Yeah, thanks for that information. I guess I meant just to say to use as a reference. If if, you know, if I may, or if you, if you were appointing somebody, and I knew it was you, that was a point and I had some questions, I could actually ask you some of those questions. But yeah. So, if we knew who is maybe referring these individuals that would maybe help. I know some of the questions have been put forth. Thanks.
 We can certainly do that. Great point. Any other additional questions? Kirk, could you please call the roll on the one item? Durkee? No. Loberman? Loberman? Loberman, aye. Aye. Aye. Okay. Tunberg? Frost? Frost? Hervey? Alderman Frost, what was that? It was an aye. I'm sorry. Aye. Okay. Hervey?
 Alderman Kirby is a no. Hoffman? Alderman Hoffman? Aye. Alderman Rose? Alderman Beach? Aye. Aye, okay. Alderman Keonis? Aye. Alderman Hanley? Aye. Alderman McNeely? Alderman McNeely? No. Okay. So it's eight ayes and three noes, Your Honor.
 Next we move to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development. We have item B, Code and Regulation Committee. Number one, committee recommends approval of the Walk for Life Pro-Life Christian Prayer Event. The Walk for Life Prayer Event is scheduled for Saturday, January 23rd, 2021 from 10 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. at 327 South 13th.
 So we have one item before you under code and regulation committee. Do I need discussion on that one item? Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey? Yeah. And I think there may have been a little bit of a mix-up in the information from last week. I was under the impression that this was going to be like a stationary event or that it was just going to be for like a very brief walking distance event.
 And then I saw Mr. I don't know if it's Rilo or Rilat, but he had a guest column in the newspaper this weekend that indicated that the march is going to convene at the federal courthouse in front of the federal courthouse. I assume that's going to be up on the sidewalk and not on the courthouse grounds.
 and then proceed through downtown Rockford. And I asked for a copy of the application, and it's a sizable walk. It's not just for one block. I just was concerned about that because it is going to be for a significant distance, and I'm hoping there wasn't a mix-up in communications to the police because that's going to take quite a few barricades and closures.
 The other thing that was concerning to me is that given the events at the Capitol, I do want to make sure that the courthouse staff is aware of this march. And I know they talked to the staff, but I'm hoping they talk to them subsequent to the event at the Capitol and.
 are a little better prepared. I know the inauguration's gonna be over by then, but just wanna make sure that that's the case and that everyone realizes that this is a sizable march, not just a gathering for one or two blocks. Thank you. Thank you. Director Saunders, do you have any additional information that you'd like to shed light on?
 Thank you, uh, mayor and all of them and Herbie just wanted to also add. Thank you for allowing me to send you some additional details regarding the walking path. Um, verify with our special events team, it does sound like the event organizer has had communications with.
 the marshals at the courthouse regarding the event and exactly what they're allowed to do and what they're allowed not to do. You are correct. They're allowed to, they've,
 Allowed them to use the sidewalk space and immediately adjacent. The federal courthouse, I believe that the Marshalls have instructed them that they need to. To a certain extent kind of barricade off the walkways to the courthouse that way. Very distinguished. You know, area as to where the event is to occur in that area is.
 within that road closure on Church Street between Chestnut and Green. So yes, it is our understanding that they have had additional communications with the courthouse staff regarding their event. Thank you, Your Honor. That satisfies my concerns. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any further discussion on this one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Chair Keith?
 Aye. Loberman? Loberman, aye. Tumber? Aye. Alderman Tumber? Aye. Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Alderman Hervey? Aye. Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Alderman Rose? I'm sorry, I'm an aye. Beach? Aye. Alderman Huffman? Aye. Alderman Huffman? Aye.
 Alderman Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye. Hanley? Alderman Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No. 10 ayes, 1 no, Your Honor.
 Thank you. Next we have item C1, financial personnel committee. Committee recommends approval of the awarding of engineering agreement stormwater to a stormwater environmental consulting services to fair gram of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $87,500. The funding sources CIP general funds. So I need to discuss on that one item.
 A POINT, THE MUTE BUTTON APPEARS TO BE DELAYED FOR ABOUT THREE SECONDS, THREE TO FOUR SECONDS. SO YOU ACTUALLY HAVE TO PRESS IT BEFORE THE PERSON BEFORE YOU START TO ANSWER. IT'S TAKING A LONG TIME TONIGHT. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. ANY OTHER DISCUSSION ON THE ONE ITEM? CLARE, COULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL? OTTOMAN DERKEY? AYE. LOGAN? AYE. TUNEBERG? AYE.
 Frost? Aye. Hervey? Hervey is an aye. Hervey is an aye. Okay. Alderman Hoffman? Alderman Hoffman? Hoffman is an aye. Rose? Beach? Beach is an aye. Aye. Keonis? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 11 ayes, Your Honor.
 Next up, new business. Item C, finance and personnel committee. And I'm just, for those watching at home, we have no items under A and B. Item C, finance and personnel in order to approve an amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreements for Records Management System, RMS project that the municipalities listed below.
 City of Las Vegas, City of Rockford, City of South Beloit, Rock Valley College, Rockford Park District, Village of Cherry Valley, Village of Duran, Village of Mecklenburg, Village of Rockland, Village of Roscoe, Village of Winnebago, and Winnebago County. There's one item before you Alderman is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee? Aye. Lobeman? Lobeman aye.
 Thunberg? Thunberg, aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Alderman Hervey? Aye. Alderman Hoffman? Hoffman is an aye. Rose? Rose. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Alderman McNeely? Aye. Alderman Hoffman? Aye. Alderman Hoffman? Aye. Alderman Hoffman? Aye. Alderman Hoffman? Aye. Alderman Hoffman?
 Aye. 11 ayes, Your Honor. All right. So I have any more voting? That's a wonderful thing this evening. So now it's officers' report. So I'm going to simply go word by word. So Alderman Durkee, any reports, sir? Just one concern, sir.
 And I don't know where this is headed, but unfortunately, Rockford was in the news this morning. I don't know if anybody caught it, but Fox News had a reporter on site viewing somebody in one of the homes, particularly stating that they were in, I guess, a hospital.
 Category one of vaccinations, none of our nursing home residents, which as we all know is the highest case fatality rate for COVID of being vaccinated. So I just, I don't know where our status is within the County. I don't know who's in charge of that. I did call around to some
 systems that had offered to help the county, and they're getting stonewalled a little bit. So this is, I don't know what the cause of it is, but it's a big deal that we have a vaccine that's being distributed. And the most vulnerable of our citizens, they're kind of like the silent. They don't have, you know, there's not really a big nursing home pack available.
 but uh it bothers me as a physician that these patients are not getting vaccinated so i i don't know other than your honor uh and maybe uh the chief bergstrom to turn to to figure out um who who addresses that problem in our region who's responsible for this and both acquisition
 And distribution of this vaccine, because there's been some pretty good lead up time. And if it's a if this is a problem, it certainly needs to be really be addressed. So that's pretty disturbing to me. So thank you, Your Honor. Yeah, thank you, Alderman Durkee.
 I'll lean on Chief Bergson because he's on these calls and I know they had a whole host of calls even over the weekend regarding the vaccine distribution. And I had one on Saturday with the governor looking at thinking about potential sites to bring up the National Guard for further assistance with distribution, not just here in Rockford, but across the state.
 I am aware, I believe in Chief Burson, please correct me if I'm speaking inaccurately. All of the nursing homes have been touched except for one, I want to say, has not. But Chief Burson, could you add some color to that?
 Alderman Durkee's points because obviously it is very concerning to hear of any senior not who should be in phase 1a not having a vaccine and I can say about 11,300 odd vaccines have been distributed thus far but Chief Dirksen can you add to that?
 Sure. Our emergency manager, Mallory Wren, has been calling many of the nursing homes and assisted living places just to see if they have been contacted and make sure we don't miss anyone on the list. We actually discussed this today when we were in the hospital.
 in one of our briefings that that is the goal to make sure that we actually physically reach out and make sure everyone's contacted. Some of the other things we're trying to figure out is through the only Department of Public Health contracted coming from the federal government that CVS and Walgreens are going to be doing the vaccinations also. And we just got a list today to make sure that we can compare it with our list that we have as county
 that no one is missed. Just when some of those things get put together. So it is constantly moving and evolving and we are working through all of our list to make sure that everybody is counted and included to get the vaccination.
 So thanks, Chief. So is the mayor correct? Is the mayor correct in what he's stating? And I trust the mayor. I'm assuming that the news channel is wrong. I mean, I trust the mayor more than I trust the news. So is that the case? The nursing home residents are currently being vaccinated.
 From the ones that we've talked to, and again, I didn't look at the entire list to talk with my emergency manager just to see what is the total number that have been addressed and haven't. But we can follow up on that with you tomorrow. And I don't know if the mayor has more to add as far as the one that has not. Sure, I could...
 Sorry, Alderman Durkee, I don't have more. I want to confirm this, and we will have an email out to all the aldermen first thing in the morning. I'll see if I can confirm something even later this evening. You're right, Alderman Durkee, that is troubling news. I was just aware, I thought of just at one point there was two facilities. I thought we were down to one facility, but I don't want to misspeak, but I'll give you that information right away. Well, I...
 Yeah, and, you know, we used to have this core, whatever. I know there's a lot of docs and nurses, but if you tell us where to show up, I mean, you know, if it's a man-tower thing, just put the word out. I mean, there's a lot.
 all of us that will gladly come out and spend you know here too i'll take off at work and vaccinating people i mean especially these elderly folks whatever it takes let's get these guys vaccinated thanks for all your day no problem thank you thank you alderman jerky uh alderman
 Real quick, I'm just going to talk about my favorite subject is garbage, but I just wanted to give a big shout-out to the true collaboration between Rock River Disposal and the public works team, Rob Willoughby and Kyle Saunders. Director Saunders will be in touch later this week for a little more concrete planning for the future, but the collaboration between those two organizations was really phenomenal. I think I got the amount of phone calls –
 that I had two weeks ago was insane. But, you know, doing your job, taking the phone calls. But I think last week I had two garbage phone calls, and neither were due to ice. So, I mean, that right there just kind of speaks to the success from last week. So much appreciated there.
 and then just also want to wish for the peace and safety this week for all of our National Guardsmen we have some deployed to D.C. and Springfield in support of the law enforcement professionals in both capitals so just
 Wanted to remember there's lots of folks in our community that serve in multiple capacities there. So I even think the governor bought pizza for some of our guardsmen in D.C. So just keep the soldiers, airmen, and law enforcement professionals in your thoughts this week and their families. It's certainly a historic time in our nation's country this week. So thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman Mogulman. Alderman Tumberg. Thank you.
 uh alderman logeman confiscated my notes regarding the uh garbage pickups um yes uh i echo what uh alderman logeman said about that uh great collaboration and and alderman hanley and alderman logan and myself i think we're kind of on the front lines of a front line we'd rather not be on
 So, but great work getting that taken care of and thank you for all those involved. Rob and Kyle did a great job. So thank you. Other Minnesotans?
 I want to thank everyone tonight for offering input on a variety of issues affecting the policies and procedures of Rockford's future. I received a phone call yesterday from a constituent who was very appreciative of how we all did our job.
 Get along that professional during these times and in our meeting. So I just wanted to thank everyone for having a level head and getting through these times and keeping Rockford on the forefront. Thank you. Thank you. Runner, just a couple of things I wanted to mention, and I have to echo. Dr, Durkee with regard to.
 CONCERNS WITH THE VACCINATION
 Sounds like the psycho shower scene. The vaccination distribution. I was surprised with the number. I'm getting a lot of calls with people asking if I trust it. And I'm having fun explaining mRNA technology, which, you know, probably half of it is inaccurate. But I hope...
 I hope everybody would join in doing that and encouraging people to contact, get on the Internet and look at some of the articles regarding the factual basis of this vaccine distribution. There is some really virulent misinformation going around some parts of the community. And I think it's a shame, but I want to say this.
 to the public at large. We all know that there have been some issues and some distrust in the African-American community, going back to Tuskegee, some of the AIDS research and some of the artificial blood. There were some things that were done that I think deepened that distrust. Don't let ignorance or distrust keep us
 from taking part in a vaccination program for a disease that has disproportionately hit the African-American community. I can't think of anything that would be more devastating if you look at the rate that we're dying and then we let some of these fear tactics and misinformation stop us from getting a vaccine that
 that could save our lives. We are frontline workers very often. I just looked at the number of people I know in my own family and the community who work in nursing homes.
 So if you're not getting the vaccine because someone told you something or you read something on the Internet that said that, I don't know, just something. Call me. My number is online. 815-968-7682.
 Again, I'm not an expert. I'm not a scientist. I'm not a physician. But I have some good friends who have sent me some really good information on how this vaccine was developed. And just very quickly, parts of this have been in development for a long time. The mRNA research has been going since the SARS outbreak.
 epidemic hit. So that's one of the reasons that it came about so quickly. You know, doesn't matter what President Trump said or did or might not have done. Don't let ignorance
 keep you from doing something that you need to do. And yes, I am pro-vaccine. If it's available, I am going to take it. And I don't think I'm going to grow a third eye or anything. So, you know, let some of that stuff go. And I want to say thank you and echo Alderman Frost. I want to say thank you to our council. We got through some very difficult times
 without a lot of rancor and anger and that kind of thing. So I want to commend us again for being able to do that. And I'm hoping that people can do that tomorrow and we have a peaceful transition.
 excuse me, of authority as we have a new president. It doesn't matter whether you voted for him or liked him in the United States. The most important thing is the continuation and the support of our republic and our democracy. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. I don't believe we have Alderman Perkins on, but this would check. Okay. We'll go to, we don't have Alderman Thompson-Telly, Alderman Hoffman.
 Nothing this evening mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Just real quick just a mirror on and. Point of distribution, I'm concerned about the. Distribution in a sense that so many of our senior population don't have access to technology or computers.
 one of the main ways in order to register to get your vaccine is through that means and so just a concern that I have for our citizens if we have a way to get them registered with the county to get that vaccine I think it's extremely important for our seniors to have access to
 And I'm not sure if there are any workshops or community organizations that are offering that. But it's become a bigger concern of mine personally.
 especially since last week I was registering and then I got on the city council and kind of let my screen go. And then it just said I was registered without even hitting a button. And I never received that email to show that I did in fact get registered. I'm just really looking forward to a time when we stop calling certain people essential and make everybody essential in this,
 in our community and in our country. So, but had some really big concerns about that. The other one, and I just wanted to touch point, I know the city has put it out, but there is a going on in town for the 300, I think in 70 victims of Winnebago County who have died of COVID tonight. So if you place a candle in your window tonight,
 to celebrate their lives but also think of those families that are have been impacted by uh the COVID. I can think of two very close families uh to mine that have lost loved ones one a very young man another an elderly man but we've just lost so many people to this disease and um I just I wish things could not get politicized around this disease because
 As Americans, we're better than that. So please put a candle in your window, if you can, for those who have passed away tonight. Thank you. Next up, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Those are kind words, Alderman Rose. Appreciate that.
 I just want to make a comment about the CIP program. I talked to our legal director today about it. I've got calls from a couple of constituents that think that we're going to add another 1% onto what we're already charging. And I think if you look back at the prior that set out, it may not have made that clear to new people in the area.
 So most of us that have been doing this now for this would be the third time around. We're familiar with what what that 1% means. But other people come into the area thinking, well, we know what our sales tax is now. We're going to be another 1% on top. That is not true. It's just renewing the 1% that we already have. Am I saying that correctly, go director?
 Absolutely. All right. So I just want to comment and I want to thank the Public Works Department for all the effort they have to get that word out. And that's all I have to say tonight, Your Honor. Thank you.
 So while everyone watching at home, our public works team can only provide factual information. There's a citizen led committee that is pushing for the extension of the 1% that does include a five year sunset. This morning we were at.
 uh the chamber of commerce uh we've also marked that next rockford uh there'll be a host of that i think information flooding your mailboxes if you are you know one of the good people the faithful voters um uh for primary uh consolidated elections thank you yeah thank you thank you alderman hanley
 Thank you. Just real quick about the vaccines on a very personal level. I lost my uncle right at Christmas to complications from COVID. He was a senior. He was high risk. And, you know, this has been a time where a vaccine has been available. So it's very unfortunate that he was not able to get one. So...
 When I hear neighbors and friends say they have loved ones who are in nursing homes in the area and they have yet to receive vaccines, it's very upsetting to me personally. So I'm happy to hear that the chief is on it. And, yeah, if there is anything that I can do to help, please reach out to me as well. Yeah, because I have been contacted by neighbors who have said that,
 The man across the street from me, his mother is in a home and she has lung cancer and she has not received a vaccine yet. So it is still happening and I can try to get some of that information to you as well. So, thank you. Thank you. Alderman the mayor, I just would like to join everyone.
 including the president-elect for today they had a ceremony in DC where they lit the lights and recognized the 400,000 that have died to date throughout the country from this pandemic.
 And I'm glad to know, I did know, but I'm glad to know that we do have a group that's pushing to do that recognition today by putting the light in the window. I'm sad to know that we don't have that information locally. I don't know why we don't, but there's no reason that we should not have that information locally.
 I'm upset with the health department. We've invited her to city council several times, and she has not shown to date. I don't have the information necessary to share with my constituents, especially the elderly, and I fall into that elderly group of what to do, where to go, where to get that information, where to sign up.
 So some kind of way we as a city must get that information out to the whole population. The sooner the better.
 And that's all I have for tonight, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Oh, one more thing. I hope that I'll be able to see the swearing in ceremony tomorrow for the president and vice president elect. I pray that all goes well in D.C. and throughout the country tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn?
 The motion is, clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee? Aye. Alderman Logeman? Logeman, aye. Toomer? Bloomberg, aye. Frost? Hervey? Hervey is aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Aye. Keonis?
 Bye. Hanley McNeely, 11-I, your honor. Thank you.