Good evening, everyone. Good evening, everyone. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Tuesday, January 17, 2023. If we could begin, as we always do, with an invocation, and we are fortunate to have Chaplain Roy Whitmer with us. Father God, we thank you, Lord, for blessing us in this day. Lord, we ask you to bless us in our council, the city council, and God, let your divine protection be upon us. Lord, we just invite you to be with us to make good decisions for your people. And Lord, we thank you. We give you the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. We pledge allegiance to the flag for which it stands, indivisible, just as we are. Thank you, Chaplain. Next, we do not have any proclamations and there are no petitions and communications this evening, so we will move right into public speakers. We have five public speakers, and before I do that, I'm obviously going to ask the clerk to please call the roll. Thank you. Logeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. MEKS? BAHNI? 11 PRESENT. NEW SPEAKER OK. SO SORRY ABOUT THAT. So we do have five public speakers. I want to remind the public speakers that there is a microphone on the back right and the back left of City Council Chambers. You can use either microphone. You have three minutes to address the City Council. You will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring, and I ask that you close your comments when you do. Our first public speaker this evening is Flossie Hort. Oh, one second, Flossie, I'm sorry. There you go. Good evening to Honorable Mayor McNamara, state officials and all that make up this assembly today. I come to speak again on the west side of Rockford, but I would be remiss if I did not give recognition to Dr. Martin Luther King's birthday, which was Sunday, January the 15th, and several events took place yesterday in the city honoring him. And I found it kind of hard to participate in a celebration honoring Dr. Martin Luther King and his memory. When I look at the west side of Rockford, when I look at the violence that's taken place among the black youth, And we know that Dr. Martin Luther King was a civil rights leader for all people, but especially for African Americans. I grew up in the South, so I can relate to some of the things that he was kind of like trying to pursue. I watched a group of African Americans march down 50 in the state 51 to Memphis, Tennessee to participate And one of dr. Martin King rallies and marches a couple days later I observed a Ku Klux Klan burned the cross right up in back of where we live in retaliation to that March But I come today because mayor no disrespect to this group. I But I find it hard to believe that how you can celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King as a civil rights leader. When you look at the west side of Rockford, I observe you on the news talking about the potential of rebuilding the old Barbara Coleman building. And what were some of the things that it may be used for. The fact that the Peaches Stadium is supposed to be building a community center over by Bayard School. when we can't even get a community center on the west side. And then what hurts so bad is the people that are supposed to be representing you, civic leaders, altar persons, ministers, have the audacity to say that we've got enough community centers when we don't have anything to offer our children on the west side of Rockford. Where is Dr. Martin Luther King's dream? Because surely it's not on the west side of Rockford. And surely people are not advocating for equality on the west side of Rockford for our children. We do see the number of murders that's committed. It's not Asian. It's not Caucasian males. It's not Hispanic males. It's black males that are dying. And no one is trying to do anything that I can see to come together to try to find out why is it that black males are dying at such an alarming rate. Dr. Martin Luther King would have been 94 years old on Sunday had not the prejudice and the bias and the hatred took him from his family. So thank you so much. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the first chapter, seven verses, they say the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. But fools despise wisdom and instruction. It says, get wisdom, but all thou get and get understanding. What I want to speak about tonight, the 17 causes of criminal behavior and my 17 solutions to solve this problem that I invented. The first cause is not having a positive male role model father in the house. The second cause is a negative self-image of who you are. The third cause is hopelessness. The fourth cause is despair. Hopelessness and despair is the mother of crime. The fifth cause is homelessness. The sixth cause is poverty. The seventh cause is poverty. 8 calls not able to read, the 9th calls mental illness, the 10th calls drug addiction, the 11th calls alcohol addiction, the 12th calls domestic violence, the 13th calls relationship problems, the 14th calls financial problems, the 15th calls gangs, the 16th calls legal trouble, the 17th calls it's health problems. If you eliminate these 17 things, you can reduce crime not only here in Rockford, but in the United States. I also been wanting to tell my good friend, Chief Epperson, and Mr. Jim Ryan, and my granddaughter, Lil' Sugar, and my wife, this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it, and happy birthday, my good friends, and I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, birthday, my good friends. Happy birthday to you. And I wish you, if I had Chief Epperson with me right now, we could reduce this crime here in Rockford. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Happy New Year. I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll all the persons that are there in Rockford, Illinois, our citizens that are watching this. This is a very special day. Dr. King, I had a dream speech. He said, I've been to the mountaintop. I may not be there with you, but we as a people will get to the mountaintop. We're looking at that still to this day. I had a dream speech, Dr. King said black men, white men, Jews and Gentiles, Policies and the Catholic to be able to sit down at the table of brotherly love and have bread together. We have yet to see that day come. Even right now today we are in the midst of a civil war that they don't want to admit that's going on right here in this country. thanks to Donald Trump. I want to mention the fact that this past Friday, I took 87 people to see Disney, we need to raise $900. I wind up raising $1,500. This past Thursday, my van went down, down and a half for six years. They tell me about $1,600 to get my van fixed and what have you. Last year, the school system hired a grant writer. We started with five kids, but now I got 35 kids I'm transporting to Lewis Lemon School. The school hired a grant writer that took two weeks. We spent three days together. Within those three days, we was able to get this grant completed that we couldn't get done in the four years that the mayor been sitting in office. I'm going to comment about three things, and I'm passing out the olive branch. And we here this year, we here not to just talk for three minutes, but we here to address our concern. Our first concern is the regrowth. Our second concern is the citizen review board. is Lord have mercy, that so-called peace and justice center. We want to discuss what our concerns are, because we have a serious problem with that. We want to talk about the regrowth. We use, for example, I'm so glad in Springfield that they said less than 2% of African-Americans own any products or get any benefits from the regrowth. I've been talking about that for three years. I'm gonna bring up the fact that the man formed me several years ago and I'm bringing up like Dr. Martin Luther King. Dr. Martin Luther King was a hated man by the FBI. and by a lot of white people in Whitehead. And because, and even the president of United States at the time, Lyndon B. Johnson called Dr. King the N-word three different times, because Dr. King spoke up against the Vietnam War. I spoke up about the corona in Whitehead and I was called a liar, but when I wasn't, really wasn't a liar. The regrowth, if I use for example with the regrowth, They said my application came a missing, but it didn't come a missing. The mayor said we made a mistake. Okay, if you make a mistake, you rectify your mistake or you correct your mistake. But if you don't rectify your mistake and you don't correct your mistake and you let it go on, and whether we have a lot of minorities, what happened with the city having grant writers to work with minority to help them get fun. What the city did, I mean, what the school did, the park district did, like today. We, church came through for us, but we gave them the transport, 30-hour kids to Lewis and the school. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I look forward to having a meeting with the mayor and his staff. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Lewis Hayden. Pardon, sorry, thank you. Good evening, my name is Lewis Harden. I'm here to address the council about the tragic incident that happened on Wednesday, as we're all aware. You know, I was an employee of that staple of this city for eight years, you know, and all you guys do look familiar from being there. My thing is there was no information given out right away. You guys didn't release any information for 16 hours after the fact. There's a murderer walking through the community. You know, nobody knew that I went through all the messages, all the comments, and people said that they'd seen him walking through alleys and would have acted, but didn't know anything of it. A murderer stole her car, but that information wasn't there. People commented saying that they witnessed the individual get out of the vehicle, but refused to act because they didn't know that he was a murderer. You know, if you have a murderer walking your streets, do you know he's a murderer? Until you're told he's a murderer. And I know that that incident hit probably every single one of us in this room very hard. I know with the holidays two months ago, I know each and every one of you individuals have eaten a sweet treat from that fine establishment. And unfortunately, they won't be as sweet as they were. I just feel that the information... I watched a press conference yesterday. With you, Mr. Mayor, with you and you spoke about community. The amount of outpouring support is literally the definition of community. You know, you ask for the community to give information to the police. Well, they can only give information with what they have or with what they're given. I feel in the bottom of my heart that if information would have been released to the public immediately, that that individual would not be on the streets, that he would be in custody right now. That he would not be in some other concrete jungle somewhere, able to prey on the innocent. But yeah, that's about all I have to say. And next time you guys eat something, a nice sweet treat from that establishment, just think of that. If the information would have been made ready immediately, you know, instead of 16 hours after the fact, until after her car was found, you know, would the killer be on the streets today? Would it take a week? Would it take however long it's going to take for that individual to receive some kind of justice? All right, that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. Now unto him that is able to do exceeding, abundantly, and above all the years, I think, according to the power that worketh within us. Unto him be glory throughout all ages, world without end. We humans like to think, as I said before, of the limitless progress in knowledge and technology and science. Here is described a realm of experience in which progress is limitless. It is limitless in time, time and depth, making space and time irrelevant. Consequently, our organizations look forward to being given instructions on how to become involved in semiconductor manufacturing through the chipset and related training. This will bring to Westside Rockford advanced manufacturing. This past Wednesday, we were involved with some people from the Century Foundation out of New York, who we'll be meeting with up again tomorrow, talking about these jobs and the training that pays $70,000 to $120,000 a week without a college degree. I spoke this past Saturday to the Baptist Association at Macedonia Baptist Church. The audience erupted when I talked about jobs like this. You mean jobs like this can come to the west side of Rockford, Reverend Dawson? Yes, they can come to the west side of Rockford. And believe me, brothers and sisters, we're going to get it done. We have started to inform the people in the church school neighborhood of what is coming in terms of training for high-spending jobs. They're going to start getting petition signed to send to the Congressional Black Caucus and the State Black Caucus, letting them know of our intentions. And I was thrilled to see that reaction from those people at Macedonia Baptist Church. Reverend Dodson, we're going to, yes, it's going to help transform the West Side of Rockford. Talking about celebrating Dr. King. He was about economics if he was about anything He died fighting for Justin dealing with economics That's why I was so happy to hear some people from the Convention of Black Caucus Especially the new guy who just took over. He's a black congressman from Nevada. I Reverend Dotson, we're interested in what you guys are doing. Thank you, brother. I'm glad to hear that. And we're going to see that some of that $75 billion that President Biden has set aside is going to come to Illinois, from what I understand, about $7 billion or more. And our organization, with the Minister's Sanctuary, of which I am a part, a statewide leader is saying that we're going to get some of that for Rockland. It might be $700 million, $800 million. Thank you, Sister Lightford, who has said she's going to work with Congressman Danny Davis and the other people in the Congressional Black Caucus. I'm looking forward to it, and I hope Rockford does too, and get rid of some of the hypocrisy, talking about honoring Dr. King and ignoring the plight of black people in this country. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next we're gonna move to new committee reports and move to planning and development committee and other woman meets Thank You Your Honor committee recommends item number one committee recommends approval of the 2023 annual action plan the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Item number two, committee recommends approval of an amendment to the 2020-2024 Consolidated Plan Goals. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And item three, committee recommends approval of the clarifications made to the Citizen Participation Plan. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Alderman Beach. Your Honor, thank you. On number two on the amendment, it mentioned there that the 9th Street infrastructure project was going to be part of that and included funds in the 23rd, 23rd, and 24th budget. Are those funds funds that's already been allocated from the CIP 1% or what are those funds coming from? Thank you. DIRECTOR FRANZEN UH THANK YOU ALDERMAN THE UH PROJECT WAS ACTUALLY UM UH NOT THE 2023 2024 HOWEVER UH THE BUDGET IS CALLING FOR UH 250 THOUSAND DOLLARS IN EACH OF THOSE PROGRAM YOUR BUDGETS FOR UH TO BE NAMED POTENTIAL UH PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS THAT ALIGN WITH CDBG goals and outcomes. It actually used previous year's dollars, and so we previously had amended the 2021 Annual Action Plan to allocate those dollars to that project. What we had not done is go back to our five-year consolidated plan and modify the goals associated with it. Thank you. I appreciate that. I was reading from page five, and it just mentioned both the 23 and 24 budget. It did mention the ninth street problem that I was looking for what whether that money has already been allocated And this is part of this amendment. So the ninth Street project has been allocated the 2023 and 2024 the approvals in the budget, but these The particular project and the allocation of the funding will come to this council at a future date. Thank you, sir Thank you. Good question. Any other questions? I? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. Twelve ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4908, 4972, 4980, 5000, and 5064 South Main Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks bunny 12 eyes. Thank you. Next. We'll go to officers reports. Does any council member have a report alderman rose? Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted a comment on some of the comments made I just wanted to give our deepest regards to pinions family that that places has been a key component of our neighborhood for such a long time and and having an event like that happen there is It's it's hard on people. I think to See that those types of events take place in their neighborhoods Unfortunately, this is becoming a more common occurrence and so I'm really kind of at a loss of words, but I will share a Alderman Meeks and myself have talked a few times and are coming up with some strategies to address some of the issues, but also just really just keeping the Penins family in our prayers and if you're able to there is a GoFundMe page for Peggy Anderson and her family Peggy was the victim of the incident that occurred they are raising money for that family and you can find that on the Penins Facebook page if you're willing to donate for those for for that GoFundMe and it's really easy. You just click on the GoFundMe site and you can hit donate. So if people are interested, they can do that. They've received 463 donations, which is a great testament to the community on Westside Rockford and just the overall Pittens family. I just am at a loss for words. And so I just hope the community continues to support them as they have and continue. you know, keep your eyes and ears open for the person who is the suspect in the matter. Thank you. Thank you. I believe there was another hand. Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Couple things I just wanted to acknowledge I'm kind of a proud aunt. So I want to definitely acknowledge this The Alpha Phi Alpha Martin Luther King breakfast that's held every year. I believe this is the 19th year. It was held at Rockford University Mu Alpha Lambda chapter I believe is the one that sponsors it they do a a oratory contest and scholarship contest for young black males, and my nephew actually won that competition, so I was very happy to see that. He was actually able to deliver the same speech last night at the mayor sponsored MLK event that I had the pleasure of attending. So I just want to say also Congratulations and commend everyone that was a part of that event last night. I thought it was a beautiful event for our city I just want to thank every church every speaker Poets we just had it was just all the arts there was dance. There was just a different a a great representation of different talent and uh performing arts last night shown so i just want to thank everyone for for that as well was a beautiful event thank you thank you any other reports okay None will go to appointments laid over alderman there are six appointments who have now been laid over for their statutory 30-day period Those six appointments are before you Appointment one is Jonathan Rady to the Rockford Board of Fire and Police Commissioners Appointment two is Colleen O'Brien to the library board appointment three is appointment of Cesar Sanchez to the library board a appointment for his appointment of Jarmese McNeil to the ZBA and LTA be board Appointment five is a read as appointment of Jennifer Spencer and six is an appointment of Elise Howlett to the mechanical board. I'm sorry I don't know if I said Jennifer Spencer to ZBA and now tab as well There's six appointments before you is there any discussion on those six clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? Logoman tumor frost Terina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely, I'm sorry Bonnie. I'm just one two three thirteen eyes item number four ten I'm sorry ten eyes two nose one abstain items five and six thirteen eyes. I'm Thank you. Next, we have no items under motions and resolutions, so we'll move right to new business. We'll go back to planning and development committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you so much. Under planning and development, item number one is an ordinance approving the 2023 annual action plan. Item number two is an ordinance approving an amendment to the 2020-2024 Consolidated plan goals and item number three is an ordinance approving the clarifications made to the citizen participation plan Thank you. There's three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items clerk? Will you please call the roll? logan Toomer frost Serena fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's Meeks funny 13 eyes. Thank you. Next. We'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina. Thank you your honor We have an ordinance approving the annexation of 49 08 49 72 4980 5000 and 5064 South Main Street. Thank you. Thank you. We have one item on Right before you is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion clerk. We please call the roll turkey logeman Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. 13 ayes. Thank you. Second. Second. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have an aggressive second. Any further discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye. Have a good night.