Let us pray. Gracious God, we come before you this evening thanking you for the city officials and all the members of this community as they deliberate concerning things that affects the day-to-day running. I ask for grace, strength, and wisdom upon them. And as a community, may we continue to lift them up in prayers.
 and be citizens that are able to have our voice heard and be heard and respect what the outcome of meetings we ask all this through your name amen i pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands our nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all thank you clerk will you please call the roll
 Turkey get just McNamara frost her being panel photo you bird beach le a back cheer really 12 present your honor think we do have a quorum all the trellis thank you honor I move convene into closed session in order to discuss threatened and pending litigation matters
 thank you thank you it's been motion is there second it's been motion and a second to go into closed session for the purposes of discussing threatened and pending litigation matters to discussion hearing none clerk please call the roll turkey hi getchas hi mcnamara frost
 I'm sorry I'm getting back I'm sure I'm all right well thank you the motion carries we will recess for the purposes of discussing threatened pending litigation matters and the journal is for discussion so motion to approve need a motion approval there's been a motion second approve any amendments or changes
 We are talking about the December 14th journal. Alderman Frost, was that you? That was my question. Thank you. Any amendments or changes to the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting of December 14th? Let's go to the chamber for a short second. Correct. And there was, I think, some discussion about a change that needed to be made procedurally. I thought that was January 4th.
 my apologies you're correct so any changes or amendments for the December 14th hearing none all those in favor please say aye aye next is the journal proceedings for the city council meeting January 4th 2016 is there a motion to approve moved and seconded amendments or changes I would move to reconsider the item listed in Roman numeral 7 B
 number 8 2016 dash 14 dash the are that the committee recommends approval of the final plat number three the newtown subdivision Sarah second back it's been a motion and a second to reconsider item number 8 be a terminal I'm sorry more minimal 7 be a the motion lay over the final plan number three of the town subdivision to February 1st 2016 in a discussion
 hearing on all the favor please say aye aye opposed no I said that the matter be up for reconsideration on the frost I would then ask you I moved to consider the item to unfinished business today on January 19th 2016 their second the motion second to move that item up to consideration this evening under and finished business January 19 2016 any discussion
 It's been moved and seconded. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The matter will be moved for discussion. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Mayor. Based on that, I would move to accept the journal of the proceedings for the City Council meeting held January 4, 2016 as amended. Alderman Frost has moved and has now been seconded to approve the journal as amended. Any further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor?
 I was no I said thank you yes I said that we have one final journal proceedings this was the special city council meeting of January 11 16 motion to prove that has been moved and seconded is there any amendments changes hearing on all in favor please say aye opposed no I said thank you
 My apologies to our delay getting started to our public speakers. We'll now move on to public speaking. We have several speakers lined up for public participation this evening. Our first speaker, and I'll just as a reminder, our speaker is going to use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. They have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, they should hear my alarm go off and I'll ask them to cease. The first speaker is Ron Kluwer from the Rockford Housing Authority.
 Thank you, Mayor. Mayor, Council, community, thank you for the opportunity to speak before you. I stand here not to address the pending decisions on the Newtown Platte or the current issues with HUD.
 Instead, I ask that we move forward after whatever actions occur this evening. It is clear we have disagreed on housing proposals. As we move forward, we have the City of Rockford consolidated and comprehensive plans to guide us. We also have the public housing deconcentration plan to guide us. As we use these guiding documents, they provide avenues to start over again and begin to work together. I have handed out RHA's draft admissions and continued occupancy plan. Today starts the 30-day period for input.
 Years back, Alderman Hervey assisted the RHA in drafting a new platform to make significant change in the way RHA addressed applications and occupancy. Each year we must review this plan and update as needed. Please review the changes and forward your written comments or plan to attend a public hearing on Thursday, February 18th at 1 p.m. at RHA to share your comments. An invitation has also been shared with you tonight.
 This isn't the only opportunity to help us better align. Past plans included the Choice Neighborhoods planning efforts. In February, RHA and Comiris will reopen the 2013 Ellis Heights Transformational Plan, copies also before you. The intent is to refine the document and keep it a living, breathing plan as promised in 2013.
 Many of you participated in that planning, and we hope that you will again now help determine what is working, what isn't, and what priorities we as a community should have. The next opportunity is to provide input on the redevelopment of Brewington Oaks.
 We previously promised you significant change in Brewington. Since then, four applications have been submitted to and failed to meet award criteria for IDA funding. We have taken the time since to review all options. RHA desires to form an advisory committee to review options so that we may best work with the residents to determine how to move forward to meet our community's needs. This engagement will address demolition and possible replacement housing strategies.
 I am hopeful also that it provides us a new chance to move forward towards a regional housing approach.
 Last year in January, after the failed choice grant request, I asked that we work towards a regional housing plan. To help this effort, RHA, WCHA, and FHA leaders are attending an invitation-only regional housing initiative and mobility meeting in Washington, D.C. later this week. It is my hope that we can bring these lessons learned back and share these with you so that we can make progress on affirmatively furthering fair housing via a regional housing plan.
 In addition to your involvement, I am asking the community to join us. If there is interest, please be sure to reach the Housing Authority with your expression of interest at 815-489-8750. I know that all parties have spent a great deal of time working on the Newtown piece of our 1,100-unit plan. Through this time, a great deal of interest and engagement in the work of RHA has peaked.
 I hope that we can keep this interest so we can achieve the regional housing plans and agree upon those next steps in the 1,100-unit redevelopment plan of the RHA. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is John Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the winners and citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Proverbs 29 verse 25 says, Fear people can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form. It can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear people who can do no harm? Instead, fear God.
 who can turn their harm intended by others into good for those who trust in his words. I'm going to go off by saying this Thursday coming up at 2 o'clock at the Salvation Army, we're having a meeting to talk about the different things that we're going to be developing at the fairgrounds and the Ellis Heights area.
 talking about choice instead of talking about choice neighborhood we're going to engage choice neighborhood and it has our people in our fairgrounds and the Ellis Heights area instead of waiting on somebody to help us we're going to start we need to start helping ourselves I just want to go into this
 here this past weekend, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Celebration. The fight to make Dr. King's birthday a holiday took 32 years. A lot of campaigning and guest appearances including Stevie Wonder, Ted Kennedy and National Football League and officially Dr. King's birthday was approved on 1983. He was born January 15, 1929 in Atlanta and
 In 2000, all 50 states recognized his birthday. When I moved into North Mainland more than 10 years ago, we had an all-white city council, and now we have another all-white city councilman. I asked him about celebrating Dr. King's birthday and Black History Month.
 They informed me that they was not into that and why don't us blacks do it ourselves. I said, okay, for the past eight years, that's just what we did. However, this is the first year that we was not able to celebrate Dr. King's birthday. I called Ron Crewe's office and emailed him. I got no response. Even after last week, I quote, and he stated, I hope to see you in the upcoming meetings
 In fact, I hope to see all of you here and more in a series of planning and refinement and meetings. Together with the residents of our community engaged at the table in the planning and execution of plans, we will achieve more. Please consider this an invitation to engage. More to come. We have yet to meet. When you try to use fear or try to destroy wise characters just because they do not agree
 This is one of the main reasons why a lot of residents, people that live in houses do not come to meetings and do not speak up. They see what I'm going through, and they are afraid of being threatened with lease infractions or losing their place. So until you start having a dialogue with us, we will always be divided. How can you talk about injustice and you have not walked a mile in our shoe? We have an election coming up, and as long as the people in our neighborhood feel that their voice cannot be,
 counter and they have not be heard, then they will not trust the power of the beast. So how can you transform Robert when we are not at the dinner table? So we look at the food, but we cannot eat. Let's stop talking, hating, and being jealous. Leave the ego at the door and start working together. Just like you know, no matter how hard you try, we are going to make it our ass to
 one great Dr. Martin Luther King stated, well, I don't know how it would happen to me now. You have got difficult days here, but it doesn't matter with me now because I've been to the mountaintop. I don't mind like anybody. I would like to live a long life, longevity have its place. But this does not concern me yet now. I just want to do God's will, and he allowed me to go to the mountaintop. I've looked over, and I've seen the promised land. I may not be there with you, but I want you to know that tonight, we as a people will get to the promised land. Thank you. Thank you.
 Our next speaker is Roland Posca. Could you use $100,000? Could you use $100,000? Do I hear anybody that couldn't? I didn't hear anybody. Come to City Hall any Monday, noon to 6 p.m. Meet a fishy whale. Get a book.
 My book that took 36 years to finish. Do the Impossibles. Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Alderman Hervey. Great article. You can stand tall. And another store is robbed on Broadway with the owner being pistol whipped. Has anyone else ever mentioned putting up cameras?
 in the high crime area riddled red zone on Broadway I know I mentioned at least five times
 Oh, that's right. Cameras only go up in high crime areas. Orton Keys, Blackhawk, Fairground. In my 20 years living in the red zone, I've only seen two cameras that were put up by the city. One camera was at 9th and Broadway, probably pointed at the city-run pawn shop that the police set up on Broadway trying to buy guns several years ago. The other camera was set up at 10th and Broadway, pointed directly at the women's clinic.
 The only stores that do any kind of business where you need a bag on Broadway is Gray's and the Liquor Store. The up-and-coming police station on Broadway is still a year away. Please give me the patience to wait it out. In the red zone, everyone's heard of the three Rs, reading, writing, arithmetic. In the red zone, we have the three Ps. Pimps, prostitutes, and pistol whippings.
 Last week you were talking about city budget. I mentioned saving money by not purchasing the poison, fluoride, that you, the Morrissey administration, continues to dump into our water supply. Where does fluoride come from? It is a hazardous byproduct from the making of fertilizer. So hazardous that you cannot throw it in a regular garbage dump. It must be put in a special hazardous toxic dump site to keep it from entering our environment. Yet our city wastes hundreds of thousands of dollars
 purchasing this poison every year and dumping it into our water supply. Chuck Sweeney's column today says, Turn on the taps. Our water is safe. Oh, Chuck, please do more research on what fluoride is doing to your children.
 and how it lowers IQ, causes cancer, and it attacks the thyroid. The list goes on. Why is cancer on the rise? It's in the air, chemtrails loaded with aluminum. It's in the water, fluoride, chloride, bromine, pesticides, herbicides, Roundup, which is glyphosate, liquid cancer in a bottle. It's in the food, GMOs, it's in the shots, mercury and other cancer-causing agents.
 In the year 2024, one out of two people will have cancer. And all you have to do to get it is breathe, eat, drink, and take your shots. I would like one or all 14 of you to look into removing the poison fluoride from Rockford's drinking water. Do it for yourself. Do it for your children. Do it for your grandchildren. Most of all, do it for our future. I will not be silent. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our next speaker is Phyllis Williams. Good evening, all. My name is Phyllis Williams. And I'm speaking to RHA and those who support the move to Matone Drive. HUD says Rockford needs to clean up its act as far as taking care of its low-income people.
 in segregation of racial and economic status. So what does RHA do? They tear down a project only to replace it with another project. They argue this is going to be beneficial as far as education, transportation, and better job opportunities. Whoa, wait a minute. State Street has 16 or more empty storefronts. Some of them are boarded up.
 Job opportunities? I don't think so. Didn't they do their homework? $11.8 million taxpayers' dollars to build 49 units, installing water, sewer, electric, gas lines, paving, landscaping. What's wrong with buying vacant homes that already have this in place?
 This way you lower the concentration of low income, you create independence, you create pride. RHA says lump them together and remind them of their status. I'm 80 years old and a homeowner. In the 37 years that I have lived in my home, we have lost thousands of dollars due to the influx of low income apartments and especially the rating of our area as high crime.
 Realtors are aware of this and before we are all being downgraded anymore, the thought is get out while you can. That's not me. I'm worried about my own future, my husband's future. As our neighbors sell their homes at a loss, we live on social security that we have earned all the years that we have worked.
 There are many older widows, widowers that live in the area. Evaluating our homes with this project has caused us to wonder what's next. You have shown blatant regard for us who have been paying taxes to Rockford, Winnebago County, the state of Illinois. RHA, get your head out of the sand. Rethink your project.
 This move will benefit no one. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Petitions and communications.
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There is one item from Planning and Development, a memorandum from Mark Williams, the Economic Development Manager, regarding the East State, I'm sorry, the East River TIF Redevelopment Project Area Development Agreement with 214 East State Street, LLC, for building renovations for 214 East State Street. This will be referred to Planning and Development. That will be referred.
 Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item tonight. It's the Rockford Traffic Commission minutes from the meeting held on January 13, 2016 for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on January 25, 2016. I'm referring that to the Codes and Regulations Committee. Thank you, Matt. It will be referred. Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Matt Vittner, City Engineering, regarding memorandum of understanding between the City of Rockford and Rockford Park District for the UW Health Sports Factory. And then I also have a memorandum from Wayne Dust, Planning Administrator, regarding the proposed award of contract for environmental consultants to perform environmental assessment work. These two items will be referred to the finance and personnel. Thank you, Matt, as we refer. Any further petitions or communications?
 Proclamations, we have one proclamation I'll be reading. Thank you. Jason Holler and anyone that is here on behalf of the Goodwill Industries Income Tax Assistance Program Week, I'd ask them to please come forward to accept the proclamation.
 Whereas Goodwill Industries of Northern Illinois provides many valuable services to our community, and whereas by partnering with the IRS, the United Way of the Rock River Valley, and other local organizations, Goodwill is able to provide a free income tax program for the residents of Rockford and surrounding communities for a seventh consecutive year.
 Whereas over 60 volunteers including local high school and college students who earned valuable experience as well as IARS credentials are recruited to train and trained each year by Goodwill Industries. Whereas in 2015, Goodwill tax assistance sites served over 2,400 people and returned over $3 million in tax refunds to our local community.
 And whereas this season, Goodwill will host tax sites throughout Rockford and the region from January 15th through April 18th. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of January 18th, 2016, to be Goodwill Industries' Income Tax Assistance Program Week. And we encourage our community members, our citizens, to support Goodwill Industries of Northern Illinois and utilize their free income tax assistance program. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Marcy. Thank you, City Council. We're just very thankful for this proclamation. And as Mayor Marcy said, this is going to be our seventh year, and we're looking forward to a great tax season and being able to help residents here in Rockford. Thank you. Thank you.
 Committee reports. Alden Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three under Roman numeral 3C. First is the vouchers in the amount of $2,827,570.11. Then I have a fine reduction for 2016-26 Post Avenue to $500 since these violations have been abated. And I have a fine reduction at $1,000.
 1133 16th Street to $500 since the violations have been updated. And I replace these items up for passage. Thank you. I think we need a motion to spend the rules. I'm sorry, a motion to suspend the rules. Second. I'll spend a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5C items 1, 2 and 3 of the Finance and Personnel Committee New Committee Reports. All those in favor suspend the rules. Please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. Matters up and forward with the council. Matters placed up for passage. Is there discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Sovij. That is passed. Thank you. For the reports of committees, I think that was it. Officers' reports.
 just a few items this evening first I have a referral for the RMTD Rockford Mass Transit District Board with your approval this will lay over for 30 days Steve Ernst for a three year term who would be replacing Michael Wilkop who has served for several years
 Pursuant to city code section 2-42 rule 18, the appointment will lay over for 30 days. Mr. Ernst's resume should have been attached for council review. You may recall Mr. Ernst is a former city of Rockford employee that most recently was the executive director of RMAP. He has retired from that position and is being nominated for this position. Feel free to contact Mr. Ernst directly or feel free to contact myself with any questions, but that will lay over pursuant to council rule.
 Just a couple other points I want to do.
 Thank all of the community sponsors that supported a number of MLK events over the weekend. I had an opportunity to give some remarks for the Alpha Phi Alpha Scholarship Breakfast that was on Saturday, which was an extremely well-done event. My congratulations to all the young men that are scholarship recipients and who worked with the Alpha Phi Alpha in a mentoring process throughout that scholarship process.
 and a number of great events, including the one I attended, I know, Sunday night by the Minister's Fellowship, and there were others, and the community came forth, I think, and as we do in, it seems like every year, and gave a number of great presentations and support for the holiday and for the service that's behind much of the work that happens nationally now to celebrate the holiday. Thank you.
 Also wanted to just mention that next week our staff will be prepared to make a presentation on the status of the district police stations. That was a request that was made a couple weeks ago. It's prepared to be discussed next week. Further officers' reports. Alderman Otto. Thank you. Last night at 8 p.m., a pizza delivery driver across the street from my home was robbed of his vehicle and they shot at him four times. Tonight...
 A friend's son was robbed at North Main and West Riverside at the Chase Bank, held up a gunpoint. Tonight, at 6 p.m., there were six armed robberies that happened while we were sitting here. My question is, what are we doing about it? I don't see anything being done. I have a great lieutenant, but he can only do so much that he's allowed to do. I think that the people that are in the...
 administration need to get it together and start doing some things outside of the box to curb this crime. It's only going to get worse. What are we waiting for? A citizen to get shot? Maybe a robber.
 maybe the person that's holding somebody up or waiting for them to get shot by a homeowner. What are we doing? I don't see anything being done. Release the reins off of our police officers and let them police to get this under control because it's only going to get worse. Further discussion. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. It's kind of ironic that Alderman Odo...
 touched on the subject that I wanted to speak about and that is um as we're going into our budget discussions for twenty seventeen we already know that we're going to have some huge challenges but this week um I got two calls from people who indicated that they called the police department to report crimes in progress one was a car
 someone was trying to break in and steal and the other one was someone lurking and peeking into windows around the house in both cases especially the car they said it took more than 45 minutes for someone to respond all of the people who call me indicate and I've got people at the stores.
 yet we barely had a growth we didn't have a grocery store for 30 years and about the time we get one I want to make sure we keep it and two of the the places there are saying that the number of vagrants and people
 engaging in not just petty theft but aggressive theft is increasing. But even when they detain the people for a short period of time, our officers can't get there because they're on more critical calls. And very often the people start to get belligerent. And I told them don't try to detain someone. That's not your job. You're not equipped to do it.
 So what does it say when our officers are so overloaded and so
 thinly spaced that they can't respond to crimes in progress I'm not going to talk about the number of officers on patrol I think it's inappropriate to do in a public forum but many of us have felt for a long time that we don't have enough boots on the ground when they need to be on the ground so as we go into those discussions we need to take a critical look at where we are with staffing.
 I'm implementing I'm our I geographic policing and our districts and how we can be more efficient
 because our citizens are getting alarmed and tired. I'm about to lose another 35, 40-year resident. Actually, no, she's closer to 50 years. She's closer to the number of years that I've been in Southwest Rockford. It's happening on a monthly basis that I'm losing my most stable people, and the number one reason is crying and fear that they can't live in their homes anymore, especially with the amount of taxes they're paying.
 and they see those increasing and more burdens being placed on them. So as we get into that discussion, we need to take a real hard look at where we're going with our staffing. They do not blame the police, they commend the job that they're doing. When they get there, they're apologetic that it took so long and they couldn't get there sooner. Something's got to change because it's just not right.
 to have this to take that amount of time and have this many complaints of significant personal crime going on and we can't even respond thank you thank you for their officers reports just as a couple of points in response to the communications that were just made
 number one we're gonna be doing our annual review on February 5th I believe it's a Friday of our 2015 um um numbers in police and fire I believe human services that we'll do in our ROCSTAT meeting it'll be a recap of 2015 we also generally have our CompStat meetings the day before I'd have to check with Chief Hoey Chief Pan I believe that'll be occurring as well that week
 We have an individual that will be present from Governor Rauner's administration that day who is the head of public safety on behalf of the state of Illinois representing the governor's office and including their Homeland Security who will be present at that meeting. We have our, as part of our review, we'll be doing our use of force review on that ROCSTAT and COMSTAT sessions that will take place.
 We also have the selection process going on right now of a new permanent chief of the police department. The public is invited to participate in any and all of the above that I just described, as well as obviously all of our city council members. If there are specific questions regarding force and budget that council members want to have offline, I'm happy to support those conversations as well as support those conversations, bring in whatever representatives of the police department.
 I've been meeting recently with some of our partners at the federal agency level. I've got ongoing conversations with the local head of the FBI, met recently with the DEA head. We work with the ATF, we work with parole, we work with the sheriff and those are ongoing operations that are part of our overall efforts in violent crime. There's a number of pending cases that I hope to shortly have a referral.
 to the council to support this conversation that's been brought up about collaborative policing. I certainly support that.
 something the police department, the sheriff's department, and I think our state's attorney want to help lead that conversation with the community. So if you're looking for opportunities to engage in these conversations that when we have to make hard calls and budget decisions, staffing, and then ultimately recommendations on prosecutions, I hope to have venues in which all of these issues can be discussed effectively.
 At the end of the day, as I've discussed with our state's attorney, our officers are doing their very best to prepare cases but ultimately the charging decision has to come from the prosecutors whether at the federal or the state's attorney's level and we're hoping to be as effective as we can working with all of our prosecutorial teams to make sure we have effective prosecutions and then on the Department of Corrections side, I'll be
 soon with the head of Department of Corrections for the state of Illinois. Deputy Chief Dahlke will be hosting a conversation with council members and others regarding the reentry program. There was just some information in the Register Star and editorial about that. We'll do everything we can involving all elements of the criminal justice system to be effective in reducing crime. And my administration is fully supportive of engaging the council on any of those conversations. And we'll have a number of opportunities to do so in the coming days.
 business on beach under all reports yes I'm gonna go back to officers reports yes you don't mind thank you Tom I think we may be involved got notice
 of the chamber dinner coming up but also the speakers coming in I'll be speaking that night for a quick coming in the next day Friday seminar from eight o'clock until noon that book a speedy press I've mentioned several times I hear it the council chamber as very fortunate that we have this was whole seminar up in Rockford
 The chamber is sponsored it along with 300 other business people and have made that available to the city council here. Have no choice to them. And I just say if you can in your calendars by chance carve out on Friday between eight and noon, I think I do everything you can to clear your calendar out to go and get the information that really has taken this nation by storm of lesson.
 so several years bottom line bottom line the theory is what trust exists things go quickly lower cost but it doesn't slows down at a higher cost I think we're fortunate to have this in our police so if you can call the chamber tomorrow reserve your spot thank you sir thank you I'm
 We'll move on to unfinished business. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 7, unfinished business committee reports laid over. Item B1, the committee recommends approval of the final plat number 3 of the Newtown subdivision. Your honor, I place that up for passage. The matter is up for passage. Roman numeral 7B1, the final plat number 3 of the Newtown subdivision is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll.
 Turkey. Gets us. There are questions that have arisen. Claire, please suspend the calling of the roll. Who is Alderman Frost? Do you have a question? I'm sorry, is this on the vote or on the... I thought we were going to hear from outside counsel.
 with councils approval if there's no objection we have retained outside council provide advice on this matter I'm mr. blue so if you would like to use the actually showing these microphones and come up
 I've been asked by several aldermen to present tonight in order to provide a summary of the reasons why Hinshaw Culbertson was engaged by the council, the analysis we've undertaken, and the chronology and events leading to tonight's vote. First, our engagement was formalized on the evening of December 21st, but the series of events leading to tonight's anticipated vote began long before that.
 In June of 2015, Gorman and Bridge Rockford Alliance, a subsidiary of the RHA, filed a plat for a planned unit development of 65 units on a single platted lot. This required a special use permit for a planned unit development, which would have allowed the ZBA and the City Council to consider a number of factors which are not before you tonight.
 In the summer of 2015, Gorman and Bridge Alliance withdrew their application and refiled on September 9th a scaled back plan consisting of 49 units using a never before used section of the city code allowing the development to proceed without a special use permit process. This removes a lot of discretion the city council is used to using in those other types of developments.
 and limiting the council's consideration to a single question of whether the proposed plat has met certain technical requirements of the city's plat code. On November 12, 2015, HUD had sent a letter that it would conduct a review of city council actions to determine whether fair housing laws were violated and whether the city would fail to affirmatively further fair housing.
 This caused a lot of concern given that a vote wasn't taken. Gorman and Bridge Alliance had actually withdrawn their application voluntarily and it caused a lot of confusion as to what was allowed to be controlled versus the PLAT process versus the special use permit. Remember, all prior cases happened concurrently. Special use permit and PLAT pretty much proceeded concurrently and as such while council had a lot of discretion on what they voted on, they needed clarity and guidance as to what they could and could not do.
 As such, we were hired to represent the city with regard to HUD's review and also identify the technical requirements of the plat as to what they could and could not vote on and identify some historical past practices with regard to plats previously voted on. And that was important also to help us prepare for HUD's upcoming review.
 While that review took place, largely between December 21st, the evening of December 21st and January 4th, that review was not completed during that period. It took us probably about a week to get documentation. There were thousands of pages, plat applications, codes to review and receive from staff, and staff did a great job getting those over to us, but it just took quite a bit of time. We also engaged a third-party engineering firm to review the application and help us go through that.
 During that process it became clear that City Council had until February 1st to actually make this vote. So this vote coming up tonight is within the time allotted by statute and within the 60 days allotted.
 Following that meeting on January 4th, or part of that meeting on January 4th, we requested Gorman's attorney to grant us a voluntary extension. Even though we felt that we were confident in the February 1st date as a hard date, we felt that it was prudent to ask them for a consent to move forward to grant that extension. We were disappointed when they denied that. We felt we had a good working relationship with them given other projects the city is working on with them
 There have been, I think, some reciprocation and extensions granted to them on other projects, and we were hoping that would be granted here, but it wasn't. Nonetheless, we felt confident and still do feel confident that February 1st is the hard date, and as such, on January 4th, we move forward to lay this over to February 1st, knowing that we will bring it up again today if the review was completed ahead of time.
 On January 11th, we reported our findings to the City Council in an executive session. We actually noticed that up a few days prior to that. And on January 12th, we advised Gorman's Council and Bridge Alliance's Council that this matter would come up this evening. We were disappointed that Gorman's Council and RHA's affiliate, Bridge Alliance, filed suit later that same day, even though they knew that this vote was coming up tonight.
 This was not consistent with discussions we had during the week of January 5th, where they had indicated that they desired to facilitate our review and were encouraged with the upcoming vote. We are confident that with this vote, the council acted within the required 60 days allowed by state statute.
 We thank the city council for the opportunity to represent the city and will continue to exercise our prudent, reasonable due diligence and judgment in guiding the city through the review provided by HUD. And that's all I have to say at this point. Thank you. Discussion from council members?
 Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me the opportunity to speak. I would just say, as we have obviously went through a very contentious last several months and almost a little over a year, we have bad news and we have good news. The bad news, in my opinion, is we've turned this opportunity to unify our residents and unify our neighborhoods into an opportunity to divide us and be more detrimental to our neighborhoods.
 With that being said, as we move forward, I don't think the actions of city council this evening or in the past several months will define us as a city. I think as you look forward in the next three weeks and the next six weeks and the next six months, what we do from today forward and how we move forward together is,
 to work on deconcentrating in a productive manner I think will define how we as a city council acted during this tough time and to deconcentrate our public housing that has obviously been failed for many years. I will say as we
 We have learned a couple of lessons that engaging our residents and listening to our residents should be the first and foremost of our processes. I think the process from the city standpoint, the process from the housing authority standpoint and from Gorman were flawed from the beginning. I think the residents who have shown their
 Discussed with the process, I think have a solid footing for that. I think actions of previous councils in 2008 and ordinances that they've changed has put us in a predicament this evening that I will be supporting this PLAT approval. For the discussion, I'll let McGetchis. Thank you, Your Honor. I've...
 We received a lot of input from the Citizens of the Second Ward on this and I just want to make something clear. What we're voting on is a plant. It is a routine administrative function of people who own land and they want to do things with it. RHA has purchased this land. It is their piece of land, like it's owned by many business owners and citizens throughout the city of Rockford.
 When you go through the planning process, you submit your plan, and city staff takes a look and says, does this comply with the ordinance? We take a look at it as a city council and say, yes, it's in compliance, or no, it's not. If you're in compliance, I have to vote yes, regardless of whether or not I think what you're doing on that land is advisable. And if you're not in compliance, then I can vote no. In this case, what has been proposed is in compliance with our ordinances.
 So, I will do the duty of my office and I will vote yes. Because if I vote no, then I can vote no on any other legal plan that landowners in this city get to submit. And I will not encroach upon the rights of any landowner in this city. Now with that being said, I do not think what they are doing is advisable.
 And there has been great input, great discussion on this from an overall macroscopic issue of public housing in the city of Rockford. I think my colleague Alderman Hervey outlined that very well in an op-ed over the weekend. I stand by everything that she says. Moving forward from this vote, there is still work to be done. But the other way in which it is not advisable is that you look at the plan.
 and the plan has one parking spot per townhome that is being built. A townhome that is supposed to have family living there. How many families have only one car?
 RHA, are you doing a service to the residents who are going to live there? You stand up there and you say to us, you have to think about the residents. It's not just about what you think about public housing. You have to think about the people who are going to live there. And you're cramming so many people onto one little plot of land that they can only have one parking space.
 Don't have your mom come to visit because she can't park. When your teenager gets old enough to have a car and wants an after school job, better not work hard to buy a car because you don't have a spot to park it at home. That is one of many flaws in this plan. Congratulations. You got a team of lawyers together and you found a loophole in our ordinance. Is that doing right by the people who are going to live there? No, it is not.
 So shame on you Ron Clore, shame on you RHA, shame on you Gorman. Congratulations, you got me on this one. You found a loophole. I will do the duties of my office and vote yes, but if you're going to stand up there and say, hey, let's talk, hey, let's do something for the residents who are living in public housing, you have to walk the walk. And making one parking spot per townhome is unconscionable.
 And I want to see a response, because we like to see all these responses in the papers. Oh, I responded to Dr. Durkee's article. Oh, I responded to this. You tell me how it's fair that people who are living there, you get one parking spot. I won't stand for it. Thank you.
 I'm not and I would just ask members of the audience on either side of this issue to try to refrain from engaging in one way or another in support of the arguments. Just to be very clear we will have individuals who disrupt the council removed if necessary. We don't need snickering. We don't need catcalling. This will be a respectful discussion and this is a council discussion. I'll note. Thank you.
 First, I'd like to state this is morally wrong on so many levels. To be bullied and backed into a corner is just unheard of. That's not how people do business. That's not how people treat people. And the people that have backed us into a corner or tried to back us into a corner and bullied us are the same people that saying that are saying that they care about people
 The feds have said that they have made a mistake when it came to housing, where they put it, the design of it. But I don't see them wanting to change anything. You know, you could put lipstick on a pig. It's still a pig. Warehousing of the poor is unacceptable. Making money off the backs of the poor is unacceptable.
 and to be so arrogant to not want to sit with us. From Gorman to RHA, I'm not sure who the policymakers are. Maybe they think they are, but they're not. I think that they should be ashamed of themselves, and I don't know how they sleep at night, but after tonight, I will sleep well. Thank you. Alden Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I'm first I I I want to thank arm all of my colleagues on city council arm who are going to vote yes on this tonight because they have to our attorneys explained and one of the things I I had to get satisfied for myself I as alderman get just I just talked about is the out embarrassment I feel as an alderman that I allowed
 and did not know and was not aware that we had an ordinance on our books that allows anyone I don't care whether it's rich poor inside developer outside developer to build a 50 unit multi-family development on a plot of land that only allows for one parking space or requires one parking space for each unit no garages
 no through street or public street as our other requirements do and does not have to have city council approval all it has to do is meet the technical requirements of a plat and there's something wrong when a city gives up so much seeds so much of its control and its authority and its accountability to its citizens that we allow that kind of thing to sit on the book. Plats
 are we're required to vote and support a plaque for simple reason when people buy land they need to have assurance that government officials can't come back and stop them from using it if they need other requirements but that land are using that land and that's what the plat is that's what the plat requirement is that we must vote yes if they meet those technical requirements again the fault I believe is that
 We had people in our own city who found a use and pushed a use that was not intended for this purpose.
 This townhouse ordinance, because it requires one parking space, we know what it was intended for. Infill in urban areas which normally don't have a lot of excess parking space wasn't intended for green space development. But as Mr. Alderman Getch has said, congratulations to Gorman and RHA, they found a loophole and
 really put it to the city of Rockford and its residents because we're going to have a development totally out of character with the neighborhood not doing a service to the people who are going to live there by its design but they get what they want it's going to make money because they were able to pack people into a small area in a tightly confined space and that's going to give them money but it's not going to give the city what it
 one of the reasons we as a council engaged private council and Sean Culbertson and our other consultants was to give us a good independent and objective analysis of what we needed to do with regard to public and affordable housing and as Alderman McNamara said going forward we are going to have to stand up and be heard we are going to have to stand up and insist
 that these designs and developments not just for 49 units but for 1100 units are truly what's best for the citizens of Rockford but first and foremost for the people who are going to live in that housing I grew up with public housing I've watched the failures I went to meetings with my dad as a kid where they begged begged Rockford housing authority not to rebuild Orton keys not to build fairgrounds
 in the way that they did. And if you look at the neighborhood surrounding it, they've all died, they've all crumbled. So it's kind of insulting to me when I hear RHA say the crime in the public housing units is because of the neighborhoods around them. Of course it is. The public housing killed the neighborhoods around it. Not because there's something wrong with poor people, but because there's something wrong when you pack poor people into a dense area
 make them targets almost for predators, gangs, drug dealers, and then not give them the support that you have promised. Every public housing development that has ever been built in Rockford has a community center, has a place where we are going to give people self-sufficiency, programs to lift them up and out of poverty. We have been there before.
 When the government money dries up, when the government stops increasing the amount that they pay for vouchers each month, those programs are going to go away. And what are we going to have? Another dense, segregated, poverty-ridden project that doesn't benefit and serve the people who live there.
 So, moving forward, I hope we have the temerity as a city council to keep moving forward and to insist that the citizens of Rockford are heard and listened to. Thank you. Further discussion, Alderman Durkee.
 I would agree with the comments made by the council as expressed thus far. I also did write an op-ed in the paper. The good news out of some of this is that finally it seems the spotlight is being shown on how public housing is being created, crafted in the city of Rockford.
 I am opposed to the I agree with Alderman Getzis. We're handcuffed. We have to basically it's our duty to approve the plan legally. However, we can still disagree with the scope and nature of the project based on. And I would encourage the citizenry of Rockford to be involved. These documents and these studies are available. Google search it.
 Cluster-paused housing projects don't work. They just don't work. I'm flabbergasted that we're building fairgrounds light. The deconcentration of poverty studies that were done by the Urban Institute on both Chicago and Atlanta demonstrate this. In fact, they recreate pockets of crime if the density remains high. So these are out there.
 Not many of these cluster projects, some of them in the past have community type areas like laundry rooms and different facilities. Studies demonstrate that the community areas are and become pockets of crime. They're building a community center in this project when some studies clearly show that these are not a good idea. We this the project itself contradicts itself.
 We're moving people out of fairgrounds because it's not an economic opportunity zone, and we're putting them in Newtown. But we're reconstructing stuff on fairgrounds. So the project conceptually and philosophically contradicts itself. You take a photo survey.
 Look at the Section 8 housing in Rockford, the voucher program. Take a picture of the homes. You know that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has building codes and ordinances that must be in compliance. Does anybody in those wards like Alderman Hervey believe that those ordinances are being enforced by HUD or by RHA?
 We want to put housing in areas of economic opportunity. The city of Rockford has 20% of its population on food stamps. Our median household income is $40,000. We have all these staggering statistics that demonstrate that perhaps Rockford is not the ideal location to put public housing to begin with.
 You have a city like Naperville, close proximity to Chicago and other communities that have very little public housing yet offer far more economic opportunity. If HUD is going to investigate the city of Rockford with the number of public housing units that are placed in the city of Rockford by both RHA and WHA, when they start investigating Naperville or Glencoe or Highland Park, I'll be impressed.
 The interesting thing is any cursory read of the Constitution or how a federal government is supposed to work is that HUD is accountable to the city of Rockford. The city of Rockford is not necessarily accountable to HUD. And when HUD has a track record of destroying pockets of Rockford, they need to do some explaining as how they're going to do something differently.
 The mess that has been created has put public housing in not just the city of Rockford, but in very small areas in the city of Rockford. And that needs to stop. Deconcentration needs to occur. But when somebody brings to us a regional map for public housing and then the regional map is the city boundary of Rockford, it's not regional. These issues have been raised with RHA.
 And it's what we get back sometimes is our letters that are full of gobbledygook government talk that I don't understand. I mean, it's full of jargon and yet they still don't reflect best practices. So I disagree with this project. And we've been called I've been called classist.
 and different things because I do disapprove of this project. And I don't know if that person is here. I don't see him. But being called a classist, I don't know. My resume is this. I'm the son of urban poor. I sit here as a physician, but I only sit here as a physician because of God's grace and two parents who worked themselves out of poverty. If I listened to them more, I don't know what I would have accomplished. I listened to maybe half of what they told me to do. But...
 You know, it is insulting to look at the city council, but from the other side and say that we're insensitive to poverty or we don't get it or whatever it is. Each one of us has a back story to where there's been struggles in our lives, and we get it.
 But this is the wrong project. Cluster projects do not work unless there's mixed housing with income or commercial or other kinds of things that actually were proposed in the city of Chicago or elsewhere. That's not being proposed here. This is fairgrounds light. My prediction is it will not work.
 Five or ten years, we'll be back looking at the crime in the area or something like that. And it doesn't matter that the police station is across the street. I went to Moody Bible Institute for a year. There was a police station on Chicago Avenue. And up the block, right across from Moody Bible Institute, was a house of prostitution and a bunch of drug dealers and things like that. We thought it was hysterical. So having a police station in close proximity is not reassuring to me.
 So, you know, Rockford, I think we're at a tipping point. These units where we want to help, you know, underprivileged people or people who are trying to get a leg up are not necessarily productive. They do create somewhat of an economic vacuum because each of these folks will demand certain police services, fire. They will demand services from our public schools or even our health care sector
 that that sort of pull away from economic productivity and I'm not so sure that if if we invite someone like the urban institute or somebody some policy think tank to take a good look a third party at what goes on in Rockford I'm not so sure that Rockford has the economic ability right now to support the many housing public and subsidized units that we have now. So in other words I actually think we need to cut back because I don't know that we have
 If you're concerned about the poor people, I don't know that we have right now economically a lot of the things that are needed to help support these folks. They need to be moved perhaps to another community where that can be offered. And that's not a bad thing, but it's an appropriate thing to do. And I don't know, nobody's thinking creatively on the other side. That's just my opinion. MR. Alderman Faust. MR. I agree with the comments that have been made so far.
 From a policy standpoint, I think everyone in our community, especially the folks that live in the near vicinity of Newtown Place, realize that from a policy standpoint, there are lots of compelling arguments made why this is a bad idea. And Dr. Durkee has expressed many, as has Alderman Goetsches, Alderman Odo, and Alderman Hervey, as Alderman Hervey did in the paper, talking about concentrated housing.
 And before I go on, I wanted to talk about last week, but it just wasn't appropriate, the timing of it. But the Rockford Registrar wrote an article called, Delaying Newtown Fort was Pointless. And we were scorned for making, or I guess reminded that we make tough decisions here. I think we all know in these 14 chairs that were called here along with our mayor that we make tough decisions in what we all consider for the best of not just our ward, for this entire community.
 every single week. So when it was said in an article that delaying a vote was offensive to Rockfordians, I'm offended by that. The reason why we delayed the vote was to get information. The reason why we brought in outside counsel on this wasn't to quote unquote lawyer off. You know, I'm a lawyer
 Alderman Hervey is a lawyer. There's lots of lawyers in this room and we've got tough standards. You know what, I'm getting sick and tired of certain people using it in such an offensive way, including people who come and speak every single week like it's some sort of bad thing to get the proper information before we make a decision that's going to affect people for decades to come. And that's why we quote unquote, lawyered off. I don't need to be reminded of my salary, what I make here as an alderman. I don't do this for the money.
 I do this for the benefit of our community, hopefully for my children, and hopefully that they'll want to come back to Rockford when they're out of school, and for my grandkids. And I do it for the people that I don't know in this town to make it safer, because when I hear what Alden Odo said today about the crimes taking place, I'm a forward prosecutor. I don't like to hear that stuff, all right? I mean, I want everyone to be able to go, whether they're going to a store, the grocery store, to their church, to buy gas at 10 o'clock at night and not be afraid.
 So, when I read this in the paper, I take offense to that. I don't think anyone delayed this vote. And we didn't delay the vote because as our outside counsel made clear, we really had until February 1st to make this vote. And what did we do tonight? We moved it tonight. We moved it up. Why? Because we got the information we needed.
 And again, like Alderman Goetz has said better than I'm saying, I feel like I got tricked. I got tricked into making a vote. The question before us is not about policy tonight. It's not about what's right or wrong in my mind, because if it was, my vote would be different. But the vote is really about whether the plan has met the technical requirements. And I think the answer is clear that it has.
 You got me, right? Who got me? Well, everyone involved on the other side. And I think if someone wanted to make a casebook study of how not to do something, they could start in this process going back to last January, February when this first came before you. And then they could go to June at the first public community meeting and see how not to engage the public.
 How not to get buy-in because their buy-in didn't work. How not to communicate properly with people. How to get everybody involved. In this case, we have folks that live near this neighborhood and sometimes they get ignored. What about the people that are going to be compelled maybe to move to this new housing project? What have they had to say? How not to meet with the stakeholders. It's a game-play analysis that could be used on how not to run a deal.
 But we all saw it play out. It's unfortunate. And then tonight, to have Mr. Kluwer get here and to say that regardless of tonight, we're going to better align with you.
 You sued us last week. Okay? So don't come to me and say you want to be my friend or the community's friend when you're part of an entity that sued us last week. And my vote, by the way, tonight, voting yes for this, isn't because I'm afraid of being sued down the street. I'm there every day. Okay? I'm not afraid of being sued by this group saying about the plat. We'll resolve this one way or another tonight and then we'll see where it goes from here. But I'm not afraid.
 But if you really are concerned about better aligning with the community, when our outside counsel, as Mr. Galluzzo stated, reached out and asked for extensions, and you said no, what kind of message does that send? About wanting to move forward, about really caring about our community. It shows that there's no dialogue. So who lawyered up in this deal? Not us.
 Right? We reached out with an olive branch. We've reached out on numerous occasions to try to say, let's do something. Let's talk about this. And ladies and gentlemen, when I get this thrown on my desk tonight about another plan, another project, that's not dialogue. That's just giving me information and giving me paper. That's not a dialogue. If you want to have a dialogue, have a dialogue. This doesn't meet the requirement of having a dialogue.
 So it's unfortunate and I feel terrible for the people that are really affected close by to this. I feel terrible based on a lot of the comments that are made about the concentration of poverty in our community and how it's taking place and not taking place.
 And I'm sorry for making the vote yes, but it wasn't because I roiled it up, it wasn't because I tried to delay it, and it wasn't because it was pointless. It's because we tried to do our job for the betterment of this town. Thank you.
 further discussion. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate all the comments from my colleagues on this board. You know, we've been through this for an entire year. I've been in the vortex of this issue as others have been Alderman Beach. And you know, as I stand here tonight listening to all these comments, everybody's correct. Everybody's right in these comments.
 But here's one thing different that touches me personally. I have a lobby full of my residents. I am their voice on this council. And if I don't make my decision based on their voice, I should not be here. I should resign tonight.
 It is my obligation and my duty to represent the people that live in this area and represent the city of Rockford. This development is a disservice to the people who are going to live there, and it's a disservice to the people who are living around this development. I have tried many times to come to some type of conversation with RHA and the Gorman organization. I've been denied that. I've been denied because of threats of litigation. I've been denied because they know better than I do.
 I said on the zoning board of appeals for 10 years in this city, I've never seen a developer treat the city of Rockford in this manner. But having said that, there's always opportunity to come back to the table and discuss things to better these developments. Hopefully after this plat is voted on this evening, we can get back to the table. But my residents deserve their voice to be heard. I'm here to let their voices be heard. I am a no this evening. I
 It is my duty and my obligation to maintain the stability of that neighborhood. I have failed in that because they have not come back to the table, the Gorman and RHA. There's an email that Mr. Kluwer sent recently to all of us, and I just want to sum this up, Your Honor, that says he believes he is at the Rockford Housing Authority to improve his residents' lives by delivering on the goals and strategies of the board of RHA.
 that board of RHA is here to serve the city council. These are his words. And the city council is here to serve the citizens of Rockford. Tonight I am serving the citizens of all Rockford. I am voting no on this application. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion, Alderman Connell. I think I agree with everyone here, and especially Joe.
 we have learned a lot good and a lot of bad things just over the past few months we still have a lot to learn about how to move forward with this and I agree it is our duty as elected officials an obligation to be the voice of our people and I will be voting no tonight for discussion I'm never thank you we have to remember that this is the first of
 the first phase. So every one of us sitting here, even though it's not in our ward tonight, it may be the next time. And I was always taught that it's a lot easier to cooperate and work together. I'm from the 60s folks. We all work together and we all are to strive for something good.
 I do not personally blame HUD as much as I blame Gorman and Ron Clore with Rockford Housing Authority.
 HUD is not the person that I wanted to talk to. I wanted to talk and have conversations with Gorman and with Rockford Housing Authority, but I will not sit in a meeting and be talked to, not with. And that's what I have gotten out of every meeting that I've went to. All of us have went to meetings.
 We have to, hopefully there's a way, there's a way that this could have been made much better for the citizens of Rockford. And we have to remember, if I lived in fairgrounds, I would be scared padiddly to think that they might put me over there. I'm a nice person.
 There are good people in every one of our housing projects. Just because you live in a housing project does not mean you are a bad person. But we have got to work and get to where people give them help them. I think somebody really, really famous said, give a person a fish and you feed them for one day. Give them a fishing pole and you know what? They start fishing.
 Give them some pride. And remember another thing. Somebody that moves over to the new town and they've got three kids, God help us if they want to have a birthday party and invite four or five kids from school over. Where are they going to park? Common sense was not used. The only thing that was used was pure profit. And that disgusts me. Further discussion from the council? Alden Beach. Thank you, Your Honor.
 This is a real struggle. I've been downtown now just ending 35 years, and I'm grateful for every Monday night that I can serve this community. This is the worst thing I've seen in my career here. To divide our city and in some ways try to divide us here. And I'm not going to stand for that personally. I've searched my mind, I've searched my heart, I've searched the scriptures to try to find out what I need to be doing.
 and I just in spite of everything that's been said tonight I cannot bring myself to vote yes for this and I know it will pass and I know what the law says this is not right there's a difference between the spirit of the law and the letter of the law and we're talking tonight about the letter of the law the spirit I don't need to rehearse it because it's been rehearsed there's enough been said by my colleagues and I thank you for your passion
 is in speaking out what we all feel inside. And I'm so sorry that has come down to this. This is not right for Rockford. This is a long way away from transforming Rockford and excellence for everyone. And I'm so sorry this has had to happen this way. Thank you, sir. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none on back to you or say something. Yeah, just think we're all kind of wanting to explain
 why we're voting the way we're voting. And those of us who are voting yes are very not happy about it. And it's a very difficult decision to do that because I think we all agree that we don't want this project to happen and that we don't think it's good for the city of Rockford or for the area it's going to be located in.
 We also, you know, as my colleagues mentioned that are voting yes as well as I am, feel that our obligation is to uphold the law of our city and that's what we're doing. So again, it's not that we're...
 We want to move this project forward and again, I hope we move diligently and quickly to address our ordinances and our city codes to make sure that we can have more control over this type of thing in the future. But right now, I think this is the only way to go. Further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Eches? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Herving?
 Newberg Aye Beach No Elie Aye Beck Chiarelli No 7 ayes, 5 noes, runner That passes, thank you. Motions and resolutions. Alden Beck Aye
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have three items. I'm going to take the first two first. So that would be the awarded bid for sprinkler irrigation maintenance and repair to evergreen irrigation for $55,000. And the second is the window cleaning for a facility. City facilities to program one for $24,085. And I place those up for passage. I'm sorry, move for suspension of rules.
 We don't need that on motion. Right, okay. So I do just place that up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage under motions and resolutions, Roman numeral 8C, items 1 and 2, the award of bid for the sprinkler irrigation maintenance and repair to Evergreen Irrigation of Rockford for a value of $55,000.
 and they award a bid for window cleaning for city facilities to Program 1 for an estimated annual value of $24,085. The two matters are up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Berkey. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Three is not up for passage. We're just doing the first two. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Odo. Odo. She's still up.
 Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Lemon, aye. Schroeder. The matter passes, thank you. And then on item three, I'm going to move that we amend the committee recommendation from no action to adopt on the resolution for Harrison Avenue's sole source contract for overhead utility relocation to AT&T.
 Is there a second? Second. There's been a motion and second to amend Roman numeral 8C3 from no action to adopt. This has to do with the Harrison Avenue sole source contract for overhead utility relocation to AT&T. Is there discussion on the amendment? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Clerk, please call the roll on the amendment.
 Turkey I get just I three back there across the yeah her beans panel you burn each well I a back I cheerily I motion carries the amendment cares and I would place that I'm up for passage
 Thank you. The matter is now up for passage as amended. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. No. Connell. Odo. Aye. Countner. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye.
 Chair Raleigh. Aye. Nine ayes, three noes. The matter carries. Thank you. Is there any further business before the council? There's been a motion and a second of adjourn. All those in favor of adjourning the meeting, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Second meeting adjourned. Thank you.