Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
 Father, tonight we ask that you would guide the minds and thoughts of these who are sitting around the city council here, that the decisions they make would be for the city of Rockford's benefit. And we pray that you'd be with them as they make these decisions, because you have put them in charge over the city. And Lord, we ask that you'd be with all of our first responders, with the fire department, the police department, and all those who protect us from harm and danger. We just pray, Lord, that you'd have your way in all that's said and done.
 God, through this meeting now, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, and justice for all.
 McNeely Shirely frost 11 present Thank you. We have a quorum this evening Next order of business is I'll need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 2nd Thank you. Is there any discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same time All right. I'll need a motion to approve general journal proceedings for special City Council meeting held January 8 2018. I
 Wonderful. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have a special presentation from the Rockford Police Department regarding the Citizens Police Academy, and I believe we have Lieutenant Bruno here with us. So, Lieutenant, if you'd like to come forward. What's that? For the post-admin. All right, thank you. Thanks for being here. Good evening. Good evening.
 Distinguished Alderman, Mr. Mayor, my name is Eric Bruno. I'm a lieutenant with the Rockford Police Department. Specifically, I'm in charge of the Special Operations Group with the Police Department. But one of my other duties is I help run the Citizens Police Academy.
 And it's actually one of the more fun tasks that I get to do because I get to interact with just normal everyday people on a regular basis for about eight or nine weeks during the spring. It doesn't feel like spring right now, but this is our spring session and then also in the fall.
 The reason I'm here, we're trying to do something a little bit different. And we've never really come to a city council meeting or even addressed any
 you guys ever to plug the program, which is kind of weird, but we just never did. So it's my first time doing that. So we'll talk about it a little bit. So our spring session. Lieutenant, can I have you just be over here so that the camera can catch it? Oh yeah, absolutely. Everyone at home wants to see you, Lieutenant. All right, okay.
 Is this okay? Yeah, you're perfect. Okay. So, just a little bit about the Citizens Police Academy. Anybody that's 18 or over can apply. Anybody that works within the City of Rockford or lives within the City of Rockford is eligible to apply and participate. It's free. And what we do, two different things that we do.
 is that we basically show the citizens or the people that are part of the class the inner workings of the Rockford Police Department. But we also show them the criminal justice system as it relates to Winnebago County. And as you can imagine, there's a lot of misconception
 about what our job is, about law enforcement in general, and the criminal justice system itself can seem like a daunting bureaucracy to most folks. So what we try to do is we try to, you know, talk a little bit about what we do, try to dispel some myths, try to develop a relationship with the people that are in the class, and also give them a background or a basis of knowledge for the criminal justice system as a whole.
 The purpose for this also is we want them to go back into their communities and say, hey, I was a part of the Rockford Police Department Citizens Police Academy. This is what I learned. They become more educated as to the process, to what we do every day, and they help us out. And they can go back and they can start their own little neighborhood watch groups or whatever it is that they want to do. And they're coming from a position of strength, a position of knowledge.
 And I'll just give you a little bit of background on this particular academy. We start February 20th, so about a month from now. So we're currently taking applications as we speak. It runs every Tuesday from 6 to 8.30 p.m.
 And we'll run until April 24th, we have a graduation at the end where they get, the academy members get a diploma actually for participating in the class. And that'll be, our graduation is usually held here on the first floor and that's April 24th. What this slide shows, I just have the one slide because it's already got a bunch of bullet points on there to give me some talking points.
 What we talk about, we talk about the organization or the structure of the Rockford Police Department. We get a lot of questions about that, you know, where do I go? Where's District 2? Where's District 1? You know, who runs District 1? Who runs District 3? That sort of stuff. So we get a lot of questions about that. So we talk about the organizational structure of the Rockford Police Department. We have a presentation by the state's attorney's office to talk about criminal law.
 We also have presentations from our gang unit, the K-9 unit, crime analysis, which right now, Chief O'Shea professes the faith of technology, and we're kind of moving into this technological area of police work now. So we get a lot of questions about technology. We talk about forensics. We tour the jail.
 That's always fun. Get some interesting questions out of the jail. And then we tour the coroner's office and we tour the 911 center. So it's a really comprehensive class. It scratches the surface. It doesn't talk about everything, but it's a very comprehensive class. We also encourage all of our Academy members to ride along because
 As you probably know, I mean, I can stand up in front of them or the people that are doing the presentations can stand up in front of people and explain things. But there's nothing like getting into the squad car and riding along with an officer to see what really goes on. So I'm just hoping that.
 that the people on this panel here, the alderman and the mayor, if you just go back and talk to your constituents and encourage them to apply, we'd love to have them. We had our biggest class last spring. It was almost 30 people.
 And I would also encourage the alderman, if you're not busy on a Tuesday night, if you want to join us, please come on out. Now, I can't guarantee that you're not going to be left alone because they're going to ask you a lot of questions. They have a lot of questions about what you guys do. But you're more than welcome to apply, and I'd love to have you. I think it gives a different perspective to the students. But...
 Again, like I said, and we typically, we run it out of District 3 right now, but we're not at District 3 every week. We usually take field trips. So if we go to the jail for the jail tour, then we're there for the two hours. If we go to the 911 center, we're there for the two hours and so on and so forth. So thank you very much.
 how you can apply. All of the districts have copies of applications. I did put a press release out a few weeks ago that included an application. You can also email me, eric.bruno at rockfordil.gov and I can get you an application. There's a link on this slide here
 It's rockfordil.gov backslash city-departments-police, or I'm sorry, backslash police. And you can get an application there. That's it. Does anybody have any questions? Before we start with questions, can you make sure that all the aldermen get the link, the application, and just a slide that we have here? Absolutely.
 Can aldermen still participate in ride-alongs? I know I did that. Oh, absolutely. And who would they contact if they wanted to participate? Okay, so if you want to do a ride-along, we're doing that through Chief Pan. There's an applica—so the ride-along application is different from the Citizens Police Academy application. So if you want to do a ride-along, you fill out that application, it goes to Chief Pan.
 And then ultimately it gets sent to Sergeant McClester, Kristen McClester, and then it gets disseminated to whatever district you want to ride along in. So if you want to go to District 3, and it's been a while since I've seen a ride-along form, but on the form itself it has a list. It basically asks you where and when do you want to ride along. Any questions? Alderman Irvings.
 If there's those that would like to attend but doesn't have means of transportation, would you guys be able to provide any? Actually, that's a great question and we have done that. What we do is I've done that myself.
 or I have volunteers that help me with the program that are able to do that as well. And that's something I kind of forgot when I was doing my presentation is that many of the people that go through this program ultimately become volunteers for the police department. I've had quite a few do that. I've had three students actually become officers after being involved in the program.
 I'm very proud. But, yes, we can provide transportation. Alderman McMillan. I'm sorry. You gave the times and the days on which the academy is held. It's 6 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. on Tuesdays, February 20th through April 24th. It's on the flyer that you'll get electronically. It's hard to read. Mainly for the public that's listening. So only on Tuesdays from 6 to? 8.30 p.m.
 And that's February 20th to April 24th, 6 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. Thank you. Good question. Other questions or concerns? Alderman Quinones? The graduation rate has been pretty high of all the students that sign up. They all completed the class. Graduation rate. Oh, the graduation rate. Okay.
 I'm not sure. I would say the majority of the people that take the class do graduate. We do have some students that just for whatever reason can't continue on. It's either family issues or we had one participant last year that he was taking night classes at Rock Valley and he couldn't finish. But other than that, I mean pretty much everybody finishes.
 Seeing no other questions, thank you so much for bringing it to us. Thank you for having me. We really appreciate it. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Moving on to petitions and communications. Alderman Shirelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Partitions on communications. I have two items. I'm going to combine both those items That's the liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda and the zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on January 17 2018 and the minutes from both those meetings for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on January 22nd 18 both items were referred to codes and regulations committee your honor. Thank you an alderman frost for finance and Thank you
 First is a memorandum from Cherise Hunter, Human Resources Director, regarding an ordinance approving modifications to the City of Rockford's sexual harassment policy. This item will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Second is a memorandum from Mark Stockton, Public's Work Director, regarding approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Davis Junction. This matter will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 And third is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, the City of Rockford legal director, regarding the adoption of the self-limiting ordinances in the event that the home rule referendum is approved. And this matter is also referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Moving on, we have four public speakers this evening. And just a reminder to those public speakers, each will have three minutes to speak to the council.
 And our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusef. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 27th chapter, the 10th verse, the Psalmist says, Though my father and mother forsake me, the Lord will receive me. What I want to speak about tonight, Superman.
 My favorite TV program while I was growing up was Superman. Clark Kent was a bumbling idiot. Lois Lane couldn't stand him. Jimmy Olsen didn't respect him. He was always messing up. But Lord have mercy, don't let him find a telephone booth. The criminals of Metropolis would be wrecking havoc on the city and someone would ask, where is Superman? I would be sitting on the floor with my brother. Clark Kent would take off his glasses, unhook his tie. I would look at my brother and say,
 There he go. My man would go inside a telephone booth or closet or something and come back out with a red and blue jumpsuit on. Then my man would go streaking across the sky, arrive on the scene and change everything. He would catch bullets with his bare hands, then gun barrels and toss crooks around all
 All because who he really was came up. And he stopped hiding it under his suit. It's time for pastors in Rockford to take a trip to God's telephone booth. We need to take off our old suits. Our timid Clark Kent way of thinking, living and talking. And put on our spiritual jumpsuit so we can step back out into the world in which we live. And stop the killing, violence, and crime in Rockford.
 and become faster than speed and sin, more powerful than public unrighteousness, able to leap even a single bar. May God help you to be his man or woman and stand up for him. Ask him right now to prepare you to represent him today, to stop the killing, the violence, and crime in Rockford and be like Superman. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet Yusuf. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, aldermen and alderwomen of Rockport, Illinois, and our citizens. Proverbs 27, with all the problems concerned, our leader has, he can easily overlook the very people who most deserve attention, faithful employees, volunteers who work in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work and help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success.
 Be sure in all your worrying, planning, and organizing, don't forget the people who are helping you the most. Let's talk about white privilege and hate. Monday was the day federal government celebrated Dr. Martin Luther King's birthday. However, every day is his birthday to us.
 So on January 18th, this Thursday, at Olsen Plaza Community Room, at 511 North Terry Street, we will be celebrating his birthday. I want to take this time to remind everyone why we are celebrating the first African American birthday when he was hated and killed by a few of our white privilege.
 Today, so many of our young peoples and so many of our upper-division bourgeoisie blacks do not want to talk about him or pass the history down to our youth. We cannot wait on the educational system in Rockford to do this because they have been erasing our history in Rockford for decades. It's up to us to teach our youth about our history in America because with our blood, sweat, and tears, we played an amazing role in building this great country of ours.
 However, now we have to, now we have a wannabe dictator in the White House who's doing everything he can do to destroy this country. LeBron held Martin Luther King Jr. Day as an opportunity to unite despite Trump's attempt to divide. You always hear about people risking their lives, King actually gave up his life for
 a betterment of all of us, to be able to live in a free world and for us to be able to have a voice to go out and be free, no matter your color, your skin, no matter who you are, your height, your size, your weight, whatever the case may be, he had a vision and it took a bullet for all of us. Literally, the rarest form you can say that. He took a bullet for all of us.
 For us to stand here right now, even though we are trying to be divided by somebody, it is a great day for people to realize how we all have to stand united as one as America. We all know and believe this is the greatest country. This is what I found on the Founder's Fathers' Road, the Piano of the United States.
 We the people of the United States in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, secure the blessing of liberty for our prosperity, do ordain and establish this Constitution of the United States
 all Americans, that all men are created equal, make sure freedom is fairness and continue for ourselves and all our children and their children and their children and every generation to come do ordain and establish this Constitution of the United States of America as approved of the United States. So while today in America, right here in Rockland, we are still treated, some of us, as . Thank you, Mr. Brinkman.
 Our next public speaker is Mr. Mark Beeman. Mr. Mark Beeman. Okay, we'll come back. Next public speaker is Diana Walker.
 Good evening, fellow Americans. Yesterday, I celebrated the 89th anniversary of birth for Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., a man whose values of courage, truth, justice, compassion, dignity, humility, and service so radiantly defined his character and, in part, his leadership. I am blessed to not only suffer under the tyranny of Jim Crow era, but also flourish in the freedom of a day manifested by his service and sacrifice on behalf of the oppressed.
 Dr. King was not afraid to put himself on the front line, fight for peace and justice. He was able to motivate and move millions in our country from complacency and acceptance to nonviolent action. I'm one of those persons who answered the call to act.
 Dr. King's fight against injustice benefited not only the oppressed, but the oppressor. Today, mankind is at a crossroad. Do we build on the foundation of Dr. King's work of freedom for all people, or return to complacency against injustice, lack of civility, and peace?
 For instance, we think of slavery as a practice of the past, an image from Roman colonies or the 18th century American plantations. But the practice of enslaving human beings as property still exists. This is not softened by modern day standards definition of slavery. There are millions of people who are living as forced laborers, forced prostitutes, child
 as child brides, in forced marriages, and in all ways that matter, as pieces of property, chattel, and the servitude of absolute ownership. A less visible but still prevalent form of slavery in America involves illegal immigrant workers who are lured with the promise of work and then manipulated into forced servitude, living without wages or freedom of movement, under constant threat of being turned over to the police should they let up in their work.
 As a student of nonviolent and peaceful action to counter injustice, I'm appalled by inaction, lack of civility, and willingness to turn a blind eye to suffering. In the words of Dr. King, darkness cannot drive out darkness, only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate, only love can do that. Dr. King was not afraid to die for justice. Ultimately, he did on April 4, 1968.
 injustice and racial separation continue today and prevent our communities from being truly free. There is nothing more dangerous in all the world than sincere ignorance and conscientious stupidity. Are you willing to be a drum major for peace, justice, and righteousness? In times like this, it's time to stand up and speak out. You will be amazed by the change your action will create in our community. Thank you. Thank you. Is Mr. Mark Beaman here?
 Okay, we'll move forward. Under Coats and Regulations, Alderman Shirely. 405, new committee reports. B1, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the liquor store at 3305 11th Street, subject to conditions. Place that up for passage. Thank you. Items up for passage is their discussion. Thank you.
 Seeing no discussion Clerk will you please call the roll Logan man? Toomer frost Herbie Irvin's Sure 3305 11th Street, that's the What's that I'm sorry, I apologize That's not the hotel. Is it?
 No. No. This is an actual liquor store. It's called Liquorland and I believe it's regarding a tobacco license. Okay, if you could, I'll just say no. I don't want to waste time. Sorry, I apologize. No worries. So Alderman Irvin says no. I'm both. Rose, Beach, McNeely, Chiarelli.
 Nine ayes, two noes on number one. So that item passes. Next item. Thank you, Your Honor. I place number two. The committee recommends approval of the amendment to the Moda Own Program property list. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place that up for passage, Your Honor. Roman numeral 5B2 is up. Is there a discussion? No.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm sorry I didn't contact staff. I know we had a brief discussion on the floor last week regarding this, making sure we have an understanding that aldermen can and staff will work with aldermen to inform them prior to the list coming up. So is that accounted for, my question is, within this?
 Or is it stated in such a way that that would not be an issue? Mr. Kegnone? Thank you, Your Honor. So you are correct, Alderman. That was part of the discussion last week.
 per the direction of the committee staff will advise the alderman should there be any additions to the list that was previously published however there was not amendment stating that but yes we will provide that information and it has been communicated with staff as well going forward thank you very much thank you good question other discussion seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll
 Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Rose. Aye. Feach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirely. Eleven ayes. Item passes. Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of
 $3,777,146.49 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on January 8, 2018. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the 2018 budget discussion package number two. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a discussion on either of the two items before us?
 Alderman Hervey. I apologize. I wasn't here last week, but I wanted to know with item 6, the license fees for nuisance businesses, was there an amendment to that? I mean, I know it's not finalized yet, but was there any substantial change? Correct me if I'm wrong. There was no substantial change. The only clarification, I think, was that that item, along with,
 the item that addresses secondhand stores was going to be going to the Doing Business in Rockford Committee for further clarification on those items. And any of the license increases, we wanted to make sure it goes to the Doing Business in Rockford Committee.
 so that we don't just fall out of line with comparable communities, but Alderman Thunberg brought up a good point at the previous meeting that not just looking at comparable communities in regards to population, but some of those communities that may be looked at as easy to invest in and that we shouldn't just base it off population, base it off communities that maybe we want to aspire to be similar. Does that cover your point and Alderman Shirely's point last week?
 I just want to ask at the same time we do that with the licensing that we come up with the way that we can make sure we're protecting some of our special business districts. I know we have some streets and some corridors that have sort of turned into types of places. You know, you've got 10 convenience stores, a bunch of smoke shops, and, you know, we're
 I want to do a business overlay in South Maine so that we can make sure that there's balance, we don't get a saturation of so-called nuisance businesses or businesses that tend to detract from others. So I just wanted to know, well, at a separate time, I'd like to make sure that we come up with some kind of ordinance or process that we can have overlays for those business districts so that these issues don't become a nuisance. So thanks. Mr. O'Donnell.
 I am not pushing back. I just want to be clear, though, on this and not set up anyone. This is more my understanding about...
 financial impact and cost as opposed to maybe a policy or planning aspect. I think what you're saying needs to be done. I just don't know if this particular item, I don't want to tell you yes, it'll be done, and you see that it's not. No, I just know if this was going to require a rewrite, if that was appropriate to put that in at the same time. If it's a separate process, that's okay. Understood. But I think your point is a good one to note and one that we need to work on so that we have better planning.
 Any other discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll on both items? Turkey. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. 11 ayes. Items passed. Moving on to officers' reports. Just had two items. One is we are working to push out aldermen positions.
 bios out of their social media and I know about half of the aldermen have submitted their information that they would like to be pushed out. So if you have your information you have not submitted it to our staff, please, this is my helpful reminder to do so. I've seen a couple of familiar faces on Facebook already and you guys look great. But I think it's really nice that citizens are getting to meet aldermen, some kind of interesting things about them and other
 more policy ideas about them. Other item I'm sure Mr. Irving is going to address us, are you? Or do you want me to? Well, I'm really excited. I've heard about it, and now I am seeing it, that the 6th Ward is having a kickball tournament. And if you need to save the date, it is Saturday, May 26th, at Don Schmidt Park. And Alderman Irving has a whole host of really fun things going on
 for citizens and I'm sure he will address more of this in detail as we go around. Any officers reports? Alderman Beach. Thank you your honor. Just to remind again that this Thursday night a public forum on human trafficking and domestic violence will take place at the First Evangelical Covenant Church on Wood Road and representatives from RACE along with Judge Collins
 Deputy Chief Michael Dahlke from the Police Department and Sergeant Nicholas from the county will be there to make a presentation and then a panel discussion. We hope that it'll last no longer than 90 minutes. We'd like to urge those that would like to see the effect of both crimes has on our community. That'd be a nice time to come over and listen to that presentation. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Definitely. And thank you for the work to help organize that. Alderman Hervey. Just a reminder to people, I got a notice yesterday, I believe it was, that garbage pickup will be delayed by one day. So I had a couple of calls from people. So for the fifth ward, we normally would have put ours out today. We don't put it out until tomorrow. So everybody is pushed back one day as of Monday. Great reminder. Alderman Rose.
 I just wanted to touch on a reminder as well. This Saturday, the Rockford Women's March is taking place downtown. They're meeting at the City Market at 11 a.m. And it's definitely something for young women
 women of all ages to attend, but also for us guys to step up to the plate and really talk out about issues with domestic abuse and be there in support of wives and girlfriends. So that's my challenge for residents in the city.
 Alderman Toomberg, did he have your hand up? Alderman Toomberg. Thank you, Mayor. This past Saturday, I had some friends come by from out of town. So this time it was from Lake Geneva. But one of them had been into Rockford. The other five, actually friends of friend, had not been in Rockford. So they were in for a concert. And...
 Got to see a little bit of Rockford and hear a little bit about Rockford. So they're very impressed and walked away with a much better understanding and a much better view of Rockford from what they knew beforehand. So some great things happening here. So we should all be exploiting that. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would just ask if...
 Alderman Rose could repeat what the name of the march is, who's giving it, and why, when, and where. And if it is coordinated with the march that is to be on Washington as well, if it's the same group or not. I think people might be, would like to know that. It is coordinated with the march on Washington, yes.
 cities throughout the country are coming together. This particular one also aligns with some of the work that is being done in Illinois under the Equal Rights Amendment for women, specifically on issues like equal pay, which is one of the big ones that continues to play a major role in
 inequality in our country. So it is at 11 a.m. It's at the city market, and it is in coordination with the national marches. They'll march from the city market pavilion to, I believe, right between 2nd, 1st Congregational, and Emanuel Episcopal, I believe is where they ended last year.
 Any other officers' reports? Alderman Chiarelli? Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to follow up with Alderman Venita, what Hervey was saying about
 the information about the garbage pickup. I know the city was notified pretty much last minute about that decision, but some, I've received a few calls too about the email, our website was not fully updated. Where people, a lot of people checked that website to see officially from the City of Rockford what's going on. So the question is, you know, how is our website doing?
 Getting information out quickly enough to the people. They also stated there was inaccurate information still on that website. So I want to make sure that we get that stuff corrected that's inaccurate. Mostly about electronics pickups from the garbage company and some of our fees that the city charges are not accurate and updated in a timely manner. So just so we can get that on the agenda to take a look at.
 We certainly will. I don't believe that was updated, but I know out on Facebook and Twitter there was updates about the garbage bag. Good point. There was someone else. Alderman Irvin's.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And thank you for bringing the Sixth Ward Kickball Party. We do have official flyers. And again, I'm challenging all the other aldermen to put together a team by this date so we could have some fun. Something that just came to light, I was over at Kmart on Sandy Hollow. And as you guys know, they're going to be closing down here soon.
 I was encouraged to go in there and see what they would be able to do to even be able to contribute to this event and they told me that they were getting ready to liquidate. So finances is very important. This flyer here is for sponsorship levels, bronze, silver, gold or platinum. If you got a chance, I have more. Look at it and the sooner we can get to it and purchase these things at a discounted
 the better i would love to to serve the community in this and you know get get our kids involved and and change some lives thank you thank you alderman logan the second word in highland neighborhoods will welcome the mayor uh for a spirited discussion um coming up on thursday at bethesda church at 7 p.m so looking forward to it mayor thank you alderman can you and us
 I want to again acknowledge the street department, city department for doing a good job in the snow. Slackman himself, the director, for doing a good job with 4.4 inches of snow. My word, he did an excellent job. Appreciate that and a special thanks to the water department who has dealt with twice as many water main breaks in 2017 as they did in
 2015 but they've actually done as many this year more this year than they did in 2015 and in 2016 So combined so they they're working overtime any other officers reports, okay? Moving on unfinished business alderman Shirely. Thank you your honor under unfinished business committee reports laid over
 Got 7B1 is 8201 East Riverside Boulevard. The committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of A, a variation to increase the sign height from 8 feet to 37 and a half feet for a freestanding landmark style sign along Interstate 90.
 B, a variation to increase the maximum square footage permitted for a landmark sign from 64 square feet to 497.5 sign area slash 618.75 overall square footage for the freestanding sign along Interstate 90.
 Number C is a variation to increase the sign height from 8 feet to 20 feet in height for a freestanding landmark style sign along Riverside Boulevard. Number D is a variation to increase the maximum square footage permitted for a landmark sign from 64 square feet to 183.4 sign area and 231.67 square feet overall.
 Number E is a variation to increase the height of three directional signs from six feet to eight feet in height. F is a variation to increase the square footage of three directional signs from maximum permitted 10 square feet to 29.66 square feet.
 G, a variation to increase the square footage of four directional signs from maximum permitted 10 square feet to 27.78 square feet. H is a variation to increase the maximum permitted wall signs from two to eight wall signs. And I is a variation to increase.
 The maximum permitted square footage per wall signed from 240 square feet to a total not to exceed 5,700 square foot per the submitted elevation plans in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 8201 East Riverside Boulevard. Mercy Health Corporation is the applicant. Place that up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman, want those repeated? Is there discussion? No.
 Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll 30? document timber frost Herbie urban's Rose Beach Kenones McNeely Shirely I Item passes take your honor alderman Shirely under coats and regulations for unfinished businesses laid over All right. Thank you your honor
 Number one is an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment from County AG to C3 general commercial zoning district at 8526 Springbrook Road It's the Rockford Memorial Hospital doing business as Mercy Health or the applicants number two is an ordinance approving the annexation of 85 Springbrook Road number three is an ordinance approving the variations listed below at 80 201 East Riverside Boulevard and
 Those are A through I that I just talked about earlier, Your Honor. I hope no one wants me to read those again. Alderman Frost. So A through I is incorporated in number three, and I'm going to place those up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have three items before us. Is there discussion on any of the three items? Alderman Hervey. I just want to make sure that for items B1 and 2,
 Those are the amendment in the map amendment in the annexation that will allow the roadway construction, the Lyford extension.
 Mr. Kegnone? Thank you, Your Honor. That is correct. It's just over two acres of land which was originally identified in the exhibit to the original annexation agreement and is a critical portion of the road area. Thank you. Do our, are the 1, 2, and 3 can, do I need to separate out three or can you just say no on B, 2, 3? I'm sorry, or B?
 Yeah, I don't number two needs ten boats. We can separate them as you would like. I'm not worried about number two I was looking at number three. That's the signage. I don't if you would like it separated We certainly like it separated unless I can vote on it and say no on item. Yeah, you can get okay I didn't know if that we can do that. All right. Thank you any other discussion see no further discussion clerk Will you please call the roll? Tumor
 Frost. Aye. Herbie. One and two. Urban. Mr. Herbie, would you say no on item three altogether or three A and B only? All together. I would say item three all. Okay. Thank you. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Items one and two, 11 ayes. Item number three, nine ayes, two noes. Thank you.
 Next up we have Alderman Chiarelli for motions and resolutions. I waited until you sat down, by the way, just so you know. Maybe someone else has something to say. All right, motions and resolutions. First item is the transfer of city-owned properties to RCI under Blight Reduction Program and Partnership Agreement. Number two is the resolution for an annexation agreement for 8526 Springbrook Road.
 Number three is a motion to reconsider the ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3814 and 3816 Auburn Street. I'm not sure if... Excellent. We're going to separate three, and we'll take one and two first, if that's okay with everyone. Is there discussion on items one and two? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Clerk E. Aye. Aye.
 Logaman, Aye Toomberg, Aye Frost, Aye Hervey, Irvins, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely Aye 11 ayes And then for item 3
 Alderman Hervey. If I may, I would move to reconsider the ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3814 and 3816 Auburn Street. I would move for that reconsideration. There's a second. Is there any discussion? No.
 I spoke with Alderman Thompson Kelly and she indicated that she is in support of this. There are new owners. She has spoken to them about some external changes and some internal remodeling and they are very amenable to making some of those changes. So she would like to get that support. Thank you.
 While someone's on the mend, I've got to give Alderman Thompson-Kelly. I think she's provided more motions since she's been gone than all of us combined. So she is certainly still working hard. Is there any discussion? All right. Clerk, will you please call the roll on just the amendment? Or is this? No, I'm sorry. Please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Rose. Aye.
 Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely. 11-Ice. We'll hold on to the board later. Later. Next up, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under Finance and Personnel, number one is an award of bid for electrical parts, light fixtures, poles, and supplies to Steiner Electric of Loves Park, Illinois, and Crescent Electric Company of Rockford, Illinois, and Brook Electric Supply of Addison, Illinois, for an estimated annual amount of $185,000. The contract duration is one year with two one-year extensions. The funding source is the traffic fund.
 Number two is an award of bid for the traffic signal lighting parts and supplies to Brook Electric Supply of Rockford and Traffic Control Corp. of Woodridge, Illinois, for an estimated annual value of $60,000. The contract duration is one year with two one-year extensions. The funding source is Traffic Fund. Number three is an award of non-competitive bid for Traffic Control's
 I'm sorry, traffic signal controller equipment to Mobile Trucks, formerly Brown Traffic of Davenport, Iowa for an estimated annual value of $305,000. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the traffic fund. Number four is an award of non-competitive bid for General Motors vehicle parts to Finley Danker GMC of Boyd, Wisconsin for an estimated contract value of $70,000, $75,000 based on unit prices.
 The duration of the contract is one year with four one-year extensions. The funding source is the garage fund.
 Number five is an award of non-competitive bid for vehicle and equipment repair parts to Lakeside International of Rockford, Illinois for an estimated contract value of $90,000 based on unit prices. The contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions. The funding source is the Garage Fund. Number six is an award of non-competitive bid for chemical feed equipment supplies to Smith Ecological Systems of Rockford, Illinois for an estimated contract value of $70,000 based on unit prices.
 The contract duration is one year. The funding source is water division operating budget. Number seven is an award of non-competitive bid for mechanical water meter supplies to Badger Meter of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for an estimated $700,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is water operating budget.
 Number eight, an award of joint purchase contract command training vehicle to Lynch Diversified Vehicles of Burlington, Wisconsin in the amount of $374,500. The funding source is assistance to firefighters grant $250,000, fire department operating budget $25,000, and the police department operating budget $100,000.
 Number nine, renewal of agreement for workers compensation excess coverage 2018 to safety national casualty corporation for contract amount rates. The premium is based on estimated annual payroll of $82,975,030 at 19 cents or I should say .1912 cents per $100 of payroll for an annual premium of $158,648.
 The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the Workers' Compensation Fund. Number 10 is an engineering agreement for Strathmore Drive extension to Chastain and Associates LLC of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $376,560.82, which is an MFT agreement, and $143,492.82,
 which is a local agreement. The total projected project cost is $520,053.64. The funding sources are the motor fuel tax and sales tax. Number 11 is a contract for professional services to SCADA support services
 to concept integration for an estimated $110,400. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the Water Division Operating Budget. And number 12, Your Honor, I would like to hold that one out. Excellent. So items 1 through 11 are before us. Is there any discussion on those items? Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. Just on number 9 and also on number 11,
 Are we only permitted to go one year at a time because the rates are changing? Is there some reason why we're just going to settle on one year here and settle maybe locking this rate in? That's one question.
 Ms. Eichel? Yes. On the workers' compensation coverage, that's essentially an insurance policy, so they wouldn't quote that on more than an annual basis. So that's the explanation for one year on that. All right. That's fine. Then on number 11, then when we have an estimate of 110, is that an estimate within 5% or 10% or 2% or what would that actually be?
 For an estimated 110,400, is that going to be 175,000? Mr. Stockman? Excuse me. The estimate is based on historical data, what we've actually spent with them in the past. This one also is a one-year contract because we are looking towards more in-house
 SCADA integration as opposed to having to hire professional services, but we wanted to have them on for an additional year to see if we were going to make that transition or not. But if there's exit, we can't necessarily predict what the overages would be simply because this is based on the number of visits they have to make to our facilities in order to make initialized changes and that to the system itself. All right, sir. Thank you.
 Hold them in, Neely. Mr. Mayor, for items 1, 2, 4, and 5, there's a contract duration and a number of years for extensions in each one. So my question, Mr. Mayor, is for the extended years, will they be at the same amount?
 Director Eklund. Generally, with multi-year contracts, we allow for the vendor to request a price adjustment at the time of renewal or extension that is limited to the consumer price index unless they have some sort of...
 industry issues that are driving prices up. We made some contract adjustments when fuel costs rose dramatically for largely fuel drip-based contracts, but for the most part, these numbers will stay the same. They might increase 1% to 2% on an annual basis, but that request has to be made in writing. If the city doesn't agree to those price increases, then we'll put that contract back out for bid.
 So, Mr. Mayor, would that come back to the council or not? The extensions, no. As long as they're within the Consumer Price Index, no, those extensions would not. Thank you. Is there further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, we will take up items 1 through 11. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvin. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely.
 Shirella, 11 ayes. Excellent. Under new business Alderman Shirella. Your Honor under new business, first is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the liquor store at 3305 11th Street. The second is an ordinance approving the amendment to the Mo to Own program property list. The third is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store.
 at 3814 and 3816 Auburn Street. Place those three items up for passage, Your Honor. Excellent, so we have three items before us. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. There was no one, one. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 Item number one, eight ayes, three noes. Item number two, 11 ayes. Item number three, 10 ayes, one no. Excellent. Those items pass. Alderman Chiarelli, we haven't heard from you for a while. Do you have anything for us this evening? Thank you, Your Honor. It's been a pleasure doing business with you this evening. So I move to go and convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters and labor negotiation matters. Second.
 All those in, well, clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Logerman. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Zarelli. Aye. Levin. Aye. So that item passes. We're going to move into closed session.