nominate a mayor pro tem for tonight's meeting all in favor very confident all opposed all right motion carries all right thank you we'll start with our invocation this evening their invocation is by calvin culpepper of the corp street methodist church thank you let us pray creating redeeming and sustaining god we thank you for this very day
 and for the life that we've had in it. I ask that you will be with us in everything that we dream, and everything that we desire to do. These men and women have worked hard today, and they've done other jobs, but they've been called, and they have accepted it. They've come to be a representative of this great city of people that lives here in Rockford. I pray that all of the plans that they make will come to fruition if it's for the benefit of the greater population. I pray that you will guide them in everything they do and think,
 And that at the end, Lord, when it's all said and done and completed, they'll be able to have the spirit of graciousness to be able to say thank you. And so as they depart from this place this evening and embody, may you guide and protect them on their journeys to their destinations by your spirit. In the name of the one who came to show us the way, the truth, and the life. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Okay, thank you for the invocation. Clerk, can you call a roll? Hogeman. Tunberg. Harris. Herbie. Irvins. Harris.
 Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's back McNeely Shirely Durkee 13 present all right. Thank you We'll have the acceptance of the journals the first is the journal the proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 2nd 2019 do we have a motion?
 We have a motion in the second all those in favor say aye aye opposed Eyes have it. Thank you item two under that is journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on January 7th 2019 Very good all in favor say aye aye Opposed the journals are accepted. Thank you this evening. We do not have any proclamations on
 So we will move on to Roman numeral three under petitions and communications. The first is alderman bill rose for planning development committee. Thank you. Your honor. Um, we have a memorandum from law. Period of the first amendment to the 2004 development agreement between the city rockford located within the. 3 of the 2nd item is a memorandum from Deb Dorsey housing and program manager.
 regarding an extension of the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago County Health Department for lead clearance inspections. Both of these are referred to Planning and Development Committee. We have a couple of items here under B1, the ZBA agenda for the meeting to be held on January 15th, 2019, and the minutes from the meeting for consideration at the codes and regulations meeting on January 22nd.
 Number two, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on January 15th, 219 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the cultural regulations on January 22nd, 219. Number three, memorandum from Kelly and Oaks Engineering Operation Manager regarding upcoming special events which include the Melfest Heritage Run, Rockford City Market, North End Market, Rockford Village Market, and Bite Night.
 all to be referred to number four memoranda from kelly nox engineering operation manager regarding the white away excuse me right of way uh vacation requests for the property located at 3710 florida florida drive and a portion of william parks boulevard all of these would be referred to codes that rakes grazer thank you alderman beach their finance and personnel committee doesn't have any petitions or committees thank you
 We move on to our public speaking part of our agenda. Just as a reminder, you have three minutes this evening to address the chambers. The first speaker is Prophet Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of 1 Samuel, the second chapter, the third verse, it says the Lord is a God of knowledge. What I want to speak about tonight, Congress have the power to tell Trump, this is enough.
 Our government may sometimes be in the hands of a bad man. When in the hands of a good man, it's all well enough. We ought to have our government so shaped that even when in the hands of a bad man, we should be safe. Frederick Douglass said that in 1866, as Andrew Johnson, until not clearly the worst president in United States history, tried his best to undo the verdict of the Civil War, encouraging white supremacists to reimpose brutal oppression of African Americans in the Confederacy and
 irate Congress responded by passing the nation's first federal civil rights legislation over Johnson v. Doe and approved the 14th Amendment guarantee equal protection under law. How would Congress respond now under Trump?
 Once again, with Trump in the White House, our government is in the hands of a bad man. Once again, Congress has a duty to act not rashly but responsibly, dealing with concrete issues and concrete – it's time for Congress to act now because this bad man is hurting people's lives. This bad man is hurting our national security. This bad man is hurting the United States economy. This bad man is hurting our society, which brings me to the ongoing government shutdown
 of a wall. If you study about terrorists like I do, they don't come in through our southern border, they are captured at the airport. If you study drug traffic like I do, illegal drugs coming in from Mexico, driving tractor trails and other vehicles at legal crossroads, the administration also touts a border wall as a way to stem illegal immigration. The fact is that since 2007, most immigrants who are here with property rights, they have been
 of documents arrived legally and simply overstayed their visa. About 700,000 visitors overstayed their visa. The largest number, Canada, followed by Mexico, Brazil, and China. It looks like to me Trump is worried about the wrong border. I also have been wanting to tell Mr. Stockman this for a long time.
 And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. And I wish you many more. God bless you. And in fact, happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, Mr. Stockman. And I wish you many more. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. The next speaker is Patrick O'Keefe.
 Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Alderman. I feel like I perhaps should sing this to you, but it won't be that entertaining. I'm here tonight to talk about a couple of things that you've got on your agenda that I think are very important. I'm working on a project called Great Neighborhoods. I've worked with a number of you in your neighborhoods, and we've done asset mapping across the community. A top thing that we hear from neighbors are concerns.
 concerns over blighted properties, vacant properties. We've got commercial ones and residential. It's a huge issue. Many of these properties end up feeling like they're ghost properties and no one knows line of ownership or who's responsible. You've got a couple of things, land bank will help that. These are tools that will assist
 managing these properties getting them on to market faster as you know those properties that languish for five six seven years just become unviable are a huge deterrent to neighborhoods so I think the land bank is is
 is a great opportunity for our community. The second thing is the vacant and abandoned and foreclosing home registry. That's another case that we see these houses that just languish in neighborhoods. Every single ward in our community unfortunately has them and it's a huge problem. And neighbors feel completely helpless and have no control over those properties that are frankly deteriorating the values and their quality of life.
 So I hope you'll consider those two subjects. They're near and dear to a lot of the residents that have those, and most every ward, as they say, have those properties in their neighborhood. So please consider those two things, tactics and tools that will help us with reducing the blighted properties in our neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, all the Persians, citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs say, fear of peoples can hamper everything you try to do. In a strange form, it can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, and trust is liberating. Why fear people who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word. Amongst the border wall debate,
 third drug tolerance found in less than a month along the Arizona border. It's the third time they have made such a discovery in less than a month and come amongst President Donald Trump's demand for funding to build more physical barriers along the U.S.-Mexican border. On Tuesday,
 January 15th shall live in infamy. It is the day that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was born. As a young teenager in Chicago, I sat in church meetings with my grandparents and other family members and neighbors while we listened to Dr. Martin Luther King at St. Evan Anthony Baptist Church, talked about the march,
 and the plans that we have for nonviolence for fair housing during the 60s. Tonight, what I want to talk to you about is going head up with the second largest legal slave plantation in the United States of America, DCFS. Yes, I said it. DCFS is the second largest slave plantation in the country.
 They do not have any real checks and balance. Once DCSF get involved with your family, it's hard to get out. Most of their workers treat you like you are their pet or property. So you ask Brother John, where you are going with this? I once was on the sideline watching DCSF the stories of families
 I said, quality on the sideline. That change when Miracle, my goddaughter, was called up in DCSF's system. DCSF have no true respect for family value. Most of the black families, more than 80% of our youth, are raised by single moms or grandparents. It takes a village to raise a child. That's been true before slavery, today's society. I'm in a lot of pain because Miracle do not understand why she cannot be
 with me or Percy. She has been crying for us every day. I want to go to court against DCSF any day or time. I would be willing to meet with them to discuss the dinosaur rules. We are not living with 8-tracks today. We do have DVDs. This is the only way we are going to get any justice. This is one of the biggest reasons why we do not report domestic violence.
 I was there when Miracle was just a few weeks old and been there for her all the way until November of last year. She is now six years old. There's not anything that I would not do for her. The only father she knows is me. She called me Papa. The day before they took her, she called me that Thursday night. Your time is up tonight. Thank you. Okay, our next speaker is Percy Elzey.
 I remember it as if it was yesterday. I'm still crying to this day because I did not come to get her when she needed me the most.
 Three months later, I will be fighting to get Miracle back to Percy until the day I die. Look at my granddaughter trying to put on my pants. She follows me wherever I go. She has Down syndrome. Nevertheless, love her so much. She love for me.
 to read to her, plus she loved to rap, sing, dance, and get on the mic. Every day that we are together, that we are tired, she always tried to comb my hair or braid my hair. Now where do you think that she got that from? That's our Miracle Avery. She's four years old and she calls me daddy.
 It's nothing on earth that I would not do for her. I really miss my goddaughter. I'm deeply upset with Bobbi Williams. She was not out on heroin and crack cocaine high. When the police came to her apartment,
 is Percy's sister. Now my granddaughter is in DCFS hands and they are playing hardball with me. I will not stop fighting to give Miracle back to Percy and not her crackhead sister, Bobby Williams, nickname they call her Boo.
 As skinny, as ugly as she is, I have not stopped crying for my goddaughter to come back home. God help me. We saw Miracle in December for the first time in most two months since she had been with DCFH.
 The first thing she said to me was, John, why you did not call me back and pick me up? Then she hit me on the leg and did not want to let me go.
 The white lady that she is staying with do not live in Rockford. She just looked at me and asked who I was, really. And at the time, while Percy was with Miracle, they both just cried. Miracle refused to let Percy go. I have not stopped crying. I miss her so much. For those of you that do not know, we lose Miracle to DFC because of Percy's sister.
 being high off of heroin and no other adults in the family members looking around. Thank you, Ms. Ellsley. Thank you to all our speakers. Alderman Durkee. Mr. Brantley. Mr. Brantley.
 We sent everyone an email copy of this.
 We want to have some type of dialogue, especially with the domestic violence. I do want to admit a reason why a lot of people don't report domestic violence because they know if DCSF gets involved, then they're afraid of losing their kids. A lot of our grandparents, I was raised by my grandparents, but it wasn't by a legal guardian. We, as a village, we raised our kids, and we're not thinking about, you know, the legal egalitarianism. We just raised them because they belong to us by blood. All right, thank you.
 Alderman Durkee? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Again, thank you for all our speakers. Now we'll move on to our agenda, Roman Numero 5, under new committee reports. First is Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Rose? We have five items. The first one is...
 The committee recommends approval of the adoption of the 1st amendment to the South Rockford tax increment financing TIF district redevelopment plan and project area. Number 2, it recommends approval of the South main rock street Coleman village tax increment financing district redevelopment plan and project area. Number 3.
 The committee recommends approval of the designation of the South Main Rock Street Coleman Village Tax Increment Financing TIF District Redevelopment Project Area. Number four, committee recommends approval of the adoption of the tax increment allocation financing for the South Main Rock Street Coleman Village Redevelopment Project Area.
 And then number five, which is the committee recommends approval of a second amendment to the rental match mortgage and promissory note for 1055 East State Street, Longwood Gardens, and the agreement for lot Z that would be parking lot located at the 1041 East State Street in conjunction with the redevelopment of the property. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance for these five items. Is there a refining around?
 Thank you. Five is separated. So committee reports one through four is up for discussion. Is there any discussion on those four items? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Or Mayor Pro Tem, I'm sorry. Thank you. How many TIFs will we have for the South Main Coleman Village in total? Are you asking the total number of TIF districts within the city?
 No within Coleman village with Coleman village will it will be entirely comprised within this TIF district and South Maine Partial parts of South Maine will be in this TIF district the commercial blocks of the ten hundred and eleven hundred Just to the northwest the remainder will be in the existing South Rockford TIF. Okay, so three so you're counting embassy Suites this one and the South Rockford and
 Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you any further discussion on items one through four Alderman McNeely No hearing none clerk call the roll, please turkey Hillman Toomer Herbie Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely
 Shirley I 13 eyes. Thank you. You're out. Thank you. So items one through four have been approved now. We'll item number five. Yes I
 Called Bob Campbell on this and we've had a few discussions on it as well as staff And I think there's maybe only three or four of us around this horseshoe. That's familiar with Zion Development and all the assistance that the city has given Zion over the years My concern it was the same concern that I've had the last four agreements that we've had with Zion development that they did not meet the
 or live up to their part of the agreement, there was always an adjustment to the development agreement that we had with them. My concern with Bob was that there are a lot of organizations in this community that we can be assisting without continuing. If this had been a developer coming to us and having to readjust the government agreement with them over years, we would not even be talking to them.
 Even though I agree with the work that they are accomplishing and I did request their audit that they did receive As I have every year or every time they've requested I I find it I wanted to make my comments and I wanted to make them very clear and I made it very clear to Bob that it's a very serious things if you continue to make an agreement that you know, you can't meet financially and
 And I'm hoping that after the taxpayers is being left on the hook each time we have to go in and redo these agreements. It is not that they're not doing a good job. It is that they're not providing us with a good plan and being able to not follow through on the plan that they are providing us. And the history has proven that.
 And as I told Bob, I wanted to make it very clear to him. I will vote for this, but I will not vote for another Redevelopment agreement with the organizations that they do not fulfill what they're putting forth for us in the future. Thank you I think you're all women Thompson Kelly and all them in her be I spoke with mr. Campbell also a couple times for a long time I I
 echo most of alderman thompson kelly's comments i think that zion development has done some great good but they haven't done the great good in a great way what pleased me about this project is that they finally went out and got someone with expertise in these types of developments when you're operating and trying to provide and fulfill a need in the community
 on a shoestring and the people who are the Beneficiaries are on a shoestring. You've got to have the right underlying plan. You've got to have the right configuration I believe Zion is on the right path to do that and
 because I started as a firm no on this project. I wasn't around at the beginning, but I've seen the requests for modifications and forgiveness and rewrites and amendments. And what occurs to me is you've got to have people who know how to manage a little bit of money without having a lot to do it with.
 I think they're on the right path with this organization. I'm not familiar with it, the one from Cincinnati, but they seem to have done enough of these projects. We also have, and I would ask that if Mr. Cagnoni could just throw in a couple of the fail-safes that Zion has to provide for,
 to show that they have those fail-safes before we will even forgive this portion of the loan as they move forward. And one is that they're going to have to get substantial backing from the private sector
 To fill the gaps in these projects so they're going to have to show a pro forma that they can make this work And I think that was missing in the past so there were a couple of things that Mr. Cagnone told me that did give me some comfort that this one is moving not moving, but is in the right direction Very good. Mr. Cagnone
 thank you chairman this is a conditional uh approval in that they will be seeking a competitive application for funding for this project and the the fail safe is is that the loan you know will not be forgiven um until time that the project closes so in essence is fully financed and we know it's advancing forward and you know
 We have worked closely with Zion Development over the years to put together a project to redevelop the building. They've made a number of efforts and just so that there's not confusion, a number of the other times that we have provided forgiveness on this particular loan, it was subject to very similar conditions.
 and they just were unsuccessful in getting the full financial package secured. There is a chance that as they apply for this grant or this funding, they will not get it. I would agree with Alderman Hervey's statements that they've done a lot of due diligence to prepare and put this application in the best position and clearly the forgiveness is a significant portion of being able to have this project advance. Alderman Hervey?
 say is they're obviously fulfilling a need if they've got an 80 percent occupancy and the the apartments or the units are too small so that tells you that there's there's a significant need out there i would much rather see
 people have a place like this, we don't get a lot of calls for service, from what I understand. I don't see a lot of hanging around. I'm not seeing drug deals over there. The facility seems to operate very well and I'm very pleased with that. And I think they care about the people who are there and try to make sure that their lives are good and improved. So they're doing something right at 80 percent. So
 If the units get bigger, I think that's going to just mean that they'll have tenants that have even a better ability to pay. So I do think it's in the right direction. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Quinonez. I went over there and been looking at it here. Last year, like Alderman Hervey said, it's no drug dealing going around there. And the tenant's 80% filled. And they're keeping a good operation there, but...
 One other question before I vote on this. All the taxes are paid, the real estate taxes, Cagnoli, could you answer that? Director Franzen? Yes, sir. Your taxes are paid. Alderman McNeely, your hand was up. Yes, thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. The parking lot, we've been leasing a parking lot to them for years now for a dollar a year. They maintain the parking lot.
 Or have we maintained the parking lot over the years? Okay. And then that would be the market rate, what we're going to sell to them, if they can come up with the funding through the grant? The sale price remains at $58,000. And that's market rate? I believe that was determined market rate at the time of the original agreement. And that was when? Apologize. Last year, this year? Yeah.
 approximately yes my point is without you answering me is to as for us to be able to at least get market rate on that staff have an answer on that or
 I can't state what the market rate is of the parking lot, but that was the terms that were determined when the original development agreement was done. I believe that was done in the mid-'90s and has continued on. And the request this evening is to continue that portion of the agreement, but they're not required to purchase it to extend that out. Okay.
 I would like to then either have this go back or either amend it here, that we sell that parking lot for market rate. They certainly have had the advantage all of these years of use of that parking lot, and we certainly have been more than accommodating not just with this property but other properties over the years. So if they get the funding,
 Would hope that the city taxpayers can get the benefit of getting the money at market rate for the parking lot. I
 Director Cagnoli? So the terms that we propose as staff is how we've negotiated the agreement based on the original approval by City Council. We're not recommending adjusting the terms of the $58,000. I would note that this property has paid property, this property being the building, has paid property taxes over the course of the original development agreement, and as it goes forward, it will also pay property taxes. I think that's good. We mentioned...
 parking lot back here or to adjust that whichever one i'm going to director cagnoli determination of of city council on how you may want to proceed in that case mayor pro tem i would i would ask that item number five the part of the note um the part the agreement for the sale of the parking lot at 1041 east state street be
 be amended to, well actually I would request Mayor Pro Tem that this, the parking lot part of this agreement be sent back so that we can determine what the market rate is and then at that time bring it forth to the Council. So I'm asking for the parking lot section of this agreement or the agreement for the parking lot be sent back.
 motioning to amend a five that's correct yes we know agreement for lot Z do we need a second on the amendment motion motion to amend the agreement it's the motion it's a motion to send up a portion of the agreement back to committee for further consideration or back to staff are you asking them to continue with the vote on the balance the remainder of the agreement or do you want to hold yes
 Because my understanding the way I read this is these are two separate one is regarding the application with the state for them Bunnies to be received to Accommodate the city for the mortgage and promissory note and the second is the agreement for lot Z Okay, just wanted to clarify hold them in Thompson Kelly. It is right Did you need a second on the okay, I
 Didn't know if she was making a discussing their second or not. Is there a second on the motion to send? part of this A5 back to staff all the Mattoon Berg Thank You mayor pro tem just for My simple mind understand are we looking at a part of the parking lot Z? Which has been leased to them for a dollar and they have been in?
 maintaining it this during the duration and if we were to sell that to them right now according to the agreement it would be sold at $58,000 and what we're asking for is to get a current to see what the value of that is currently if we're getting a fair price for that is that correct I believe that's correct
 Other me. I'm just yeah. I just want to know I'm just alderman toberg I'm asking that we the 58,000 is what's there now in the agreement for lot C And I'm asking that it goes back go back and that we come up with we figure out What is the current market value and sell it to Zion at that amount? All right? Yeah I just want to understand and make sure okay. Thanks Do we have a second?
 I'm assuming you have a second. All right. Is there anyone willing to make a second motion on this? OK. Hearing none, that motion fails. Thank you. OK. Is there any further discussion on item 5 in its entirety? Hearing none, clerk, can you call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach.
 Aye. Quinonez? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Committee report passes. We'll move on to Codes and Regulations Committee, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Under B, Codes and Regs, we have eight items. I'm going to hold seven out, and we're going to deal with that separately because there's some amendments.
 so we'll take the first one number one and that is uh the commissioner recommends no action on establishing parking restrictions of no parking any time on one side of governor's drive trevor circle and hampshire closed number two
 Committee recommends sustaining the ZBA approval of a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm in an I-3 airport industrial zoning district at 1303 and 1325 Samuelson Road. Number three. Committee sustains the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board the sale of tobacco products at 2901 11th Street. Number four.
 Committee recommends to sustain the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store. Sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station at 818 South 6th Street, subject to conditions. Number five, committee recommends to stay in the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board for the sale of liquor by the drink with an indoor market and outdoor market. Number two, the sale of liquor with a drink in conjunction with an outdoor beer garden.
 At 116 North Madison Street, subject to conditions. Number six, committee recommends approval of the proposed landmark designation of 504 North 1st Street, the Whitver House. Number eight, committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment of the City of Rockford Local Code, Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 33, Hours of Operation. I place those seven items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you alderman beach. So item number seven has been separated out. Is there any discussion on the remaining items alderman thompson kelly? I have a question on item number two. What is the size of the solar panels? I I apologize because I know it was in the information Does anyone have the size of those panels director franson? I apologize don't have that right in front of me, but I will get that for you in just a second alderman hervey
 question on number two also we've had a number of these coming before us and in recent times do we have any plan or thoughts as a city as to how many of these solar farms we want many of them are springing up around that area if I'm not mistaken do they have any impact on other development
 You know, we just got done having to sue the folks out at the Essex wire plant because they started something they couldn't finish. I don't think they ever intended to, but that's another story. But with regard to these solar farms, are we vetting these companies? I'm thinking there's got to be some federal incentive or something out there because they're just popping up like daisies.
 i'm just hoping that staff is vetting these and making sure that these folks have the wherewithal we talked about making sure they had a sinking fund to decommission these fields how are we going to monitor that i'm just getting concerned because there just seems to be a lot of them director cagnoni thank you um
 Those are all very good questions and one that we need to continue to evaluate as we look at these solar farms. And there is, you know, federal and specifically state legislation that's making it more appealing for investors to pursue solar farms. This particular proposal is a little bit different than the proposals that we've reviewed in the past as it's not –
 Land independent of any other investment. So this proposal is a proposal with the Property owner in the manufacturing company, which is slide Matic so they're partnering with the solar company on this solar farm and their their plans are to use the solar power to offset the cost for the manufacturing facility and then sell any net of
 energy back to the the grid so We you know one we did our normal due diligence related to making sure that we have a strategy and a plan for decommissioning Should that need to take place? But we have further confidence understanding that it is a partnership with a local manufacturing company as well 11 times to kill you follow up all them in rows. I
 i wanted to share the same concern that you have um one that i have is that um you know of course we all want solar power and and it's a great use of power and it's free energy but um i i feel like there should be some type of i don't i don't know if it's legal jargon whatever you want to call it in those agreements that that says that whether it's the manufacturer who's building the um
 stations or the property owner that they take full responsibility for the decommissioning of those projects because you know, We might we might not see it now, but 30 40 years from now when you know those kind of things become like an Essex Then we don't have to deal with those kind of problems We can say that it's been built into that agreement that they're gonna take full ownership of it They're gonna pay for the removal of those and that it's just it's it's
 It's already pre-done. And seeing that we're not a home rule community, I feel like that would be something that we should be looking at as a part of those agreements. Very good. Thank you. Any further discussion? Clerk, can you call the roll on item 6? Yes.
 I just want to make sure I answered your question. I apologize. I didn't remember them off the top of my head. The actual panels are six feet high by three feet. They'll be mounted about three feet high, so they will not exceed a height of 10 feet.
 I know state legislation has legislated a lot of solar energy farms, and a lot of manufacturers are taking advantage of it. I think we're right now talking to someone in regards to having someone in the seventh ward talk
 But the points are very well taken, and we do need to be looking out for those. And it would be really nice if legal could share some of the information from the state legislation on the guidelines on these type of farms coming into the communities. Because we definitely need that information. Thank you. Alderman Hervey? Not just the farms.
 When I was at the NAACP Freedom Fund banquet, a gentleman was touting a program, he says it's through the state, that loans homeowners $25,000, $30,000 to install solar panels on their roof, and the energy that they don't use is
 It was a very complex transaction. At first it was totally free. And as I asked more and more questions, then well, it's not exactly free, but the other part would be a loan.
 I just don't want this to become like we did with the long-distance services, where we get people calling and, in some cases, not necessarily scamming people, but getting people into something that they're not really sure of. Because I really warned them about targeting this into poor neighborhoods. And that was almost the impression that I got. Again, I'm not going to knock anybody before I understand the whole thing.
 So it's not just the solar farm fields, but I think if we could look up what's going on with consumers. And if we don't have any ordinances dealing with the installation of solar panels on rooftops, in neighborhoods, or in yards, because I was told you could do it either way, I could just see my corner lot filled with solar panels.
 I don't know whether we have something that regulates those or whether it's a zoning issue But if we don't we need to start looking at it because it's coming fast and furious. Thanks Director Cagnone Thank You mayor To answer your question, you know, we currently do have regulations related to solar installations in our zoning ordinance in part That's what's triggering this request for our special use permit. Um
 We are also participating with a number of other municipalities statewide to evaluate what the best practices are related to solar. I anticipate over the coming months that will bring additional legislation for this body to review, determine what steps they may want to take related to solar installation because it is becoming more and more popular on a home level.
 you know, homeowner level, when historically it has not been. And what do we want those aesthetics to be? What do we find acceptable? And how do we want to streamline our building permit process so that should a homeowner want to do it, it's not going to be overly costly to them, but we can still protect the community interest. Thank you. Any further discussion? Clerk, can you call the roll? Durkee. Aye. All except 7. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Aye.
 Hervey, Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Nunes, Beck, McNeely, Shirely. Aye. Items one, two, three, 13 ayes. Item number four, two ayes, 11, I'm sorry, 11 ayes, two nos on 4A. Items five, six, and eight, 13 ayes. Thank you, aye. All those items have passed. Now item number seven.
 I'm sorry no vote on number five please Alderman Beach has requested his no vote on item number five thank you now on number seven has to do with the vacant and foreclosure property registry there has been discussions with staff with the apartment and Realtors associations since we last met and there's a series of amendments that take some time to read there's eight them all together and
 But these amendments then come with no objection from either the apartment or real estate association. So I ask if there's some way I can speed read these all. They said no, so please bear with me. Do the aldermen have copies of these on their desk? They should. All right. All right. I wish I could tell you to just read them. Here we go. Number one, under section 17-62, subsection L1, which provides a list of conditions for
 The code officials will take into consideration when determining whether a building is vacant, subparagraph M shall be added which states, statements made by the property owner, contractor, or any representative from an organization or association representing the interest property owners,
 that the property should not be subject to registration due to ongoing rehabilitation or that the property is actively for sale or for rent. Amendment 2, Section 17-72L2, shall state, no single condition listed in some paragraphs I through L shall be sufficient to constitute a vacant building on its own. The building official may determine a building is vacant if I, two or more conditions set forth in the paragraph.
 Paragraph I through L exists and to I's the property is not in compliance with applicable ordinance codes, legislation, and regulations. Number three, section 17-72L3, which lists certain buildings that are not considered vacant, shall state, A, buildings which are actively for sale or for rent and are otherwise vacant.
 secure and which are in compliance with the applicable ordinance codes, legislation and regulations. Amendment 4, Section 17-72L3A, I shall state a building listing for sale with a licensed real estate broker or the municipal listing service and is otherwise secure and which is in compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes, legislation and regulations shall be prima facie evidence that the building is actively for sale.
 Amendment 5, Section 17-72L3E shall state a building which is unoccupied but is in compliance with ordinances, codes, legislations, regulating the exteriors of buildings and property unless said building has been deemed a public. I don't believe we have. That's what I ask. Are these amendments on the desk? We're missing a page. Oh, how many all are missing that page? Yes.
 Clerk, can you make copies of that, please? All of the amendments were also included in their cut and paste, essentially, from the red line ordinance that was provided and attached to the agenda packet. So you can refer to those, but we'll also have the clerk make copies. Do you have the amendments 6, 7, and 8? Yes.
 Then why don't I read those? We'll go back when they get those here. So let's skip ahead. Yeah, thank you. Let's skip ahead to Amendment 6, Section 17-64, Appeal of a Vacant Building Determination shall state, A, an owner of a building determined by the code official to be a vacant building may appeal that determination to the city administrative hearing officer pursuant to Article 11, Division 4 of the Code of Orders. A.
 Amendment 7, Section 17-64, 66, and 68 shall be amended to replace all other references to city administrator with city administrative hearing officer. Number 8, Section 17-66G shall state vacant lots that are not improved by a building or structure
 are not required to be registered so long as they are in compliance with all applicable code ordinances, legislation, and regulations. So that ends all the amendments with the exception of 3, 4, and 5. And I think the clerk is passing those out to you now, and we'll reread those. Mr. Chairman.
 have a question on on amendment 7 and amendment 8 this will require additional staffing the cost of that who will that cost be passed down to and where would that staffing be would it be under the administration aware why would there be a difference between those particular buildings and the existing ordinance that we have on the books today I'll start with
 I'm sorry, I mixed them all up. If I could, your question is about the change from the
 the language regarding appeals from the city administrator to the hearing officer right this would be handled like any other administrative code hearing we have regular meetings every wednesday afternoon that are already staffed by the hearing officer and our staff so this would be added on to that docket it would not increase our our budget for those that would just be included like any other ordinance violation case we have
 And who's determined under Amendment 3, who's determined whether or not there's an active for sale or for rent if it's vacant? The whole issue is vacant buildings. So under Amendment 3, it says that for sale or for rent, I mean, if there's no sign...
 How are you to determine by someone else saying that it's for sale or for I've got several vacant buildings and when I call the landlord he says this for rent. Well first this Amendment Number 3 in itself is consistent with pretty much every other vacant and foreclosing property register we've seen so the language is similar to what we see in Peoria or any other number of places
 Certainly, there are times when you can have a property for sale or for rent that doesn't have a sign. There's people who list it through Craigslist. They list them on for sale by owner on that website. They can list properties for sale on the MLS. There are any number of ways it wouldn't necessarily have a –
 a for sale or for rent sign. So frankly, we'd be more concerned with a property that has, there's been no real efforts to place it for sale or for rent, and all they've done is put a for rent sign in the window.
 We don't want to create a situation where that would be sufficient to overcome any burden here. So there would be some investigation by the code official. Certainly just calling somebody and saying, well, that's actually for rent, wouldn't be sufficient. We'd have to ask some follow up questions on what sites, what steps are you taking to list it for rent or for sale if it's not outwardly obvious. For us to continue at number four? Okay, number three then? Yes. Is three in?
 yes read in number four section 17-62 l3ai shall state a building listed for sale with a licensed real estate broker on the multiple listing service that is otherwise secure in which is a compliance with all applicable ordinances codes legislation regulation well i thought i read that in did i not read that in
 Shall be prima facie evidence that the building is actually for sale and number five Such as 17 deaths of 62 l3 e shall state a building which is unoccupied But is in compliance with the ordinances codes legislation regulating the exteriors of buildings and property Unless said building has been deemed a public nuisance by the code official. Is that by the code official? Yes so
 Your Honor, I'd like to just place all of these amendments to number 7 up for passage. We also have a second, so we have a motion and a second for the amendments. Now discussion. Alderman Hervey. Yes, thank you, Your Honor. First of all, here we go again. As we try to put forth an ordinance...
 that will keep Rockford from becoming just an ongoing series of blighted properties, the people responsible for some of the blight in some of our areas get to sit down and gut the same ordinance. I mean, let's take amendment number one.
 statements made by the property owner contractor or any representative from an organization or association representing the interests of property owners, that it should not be subject to registration due to ongoing rehabilitation or that it is actively for sale or rent. They have no jurisdiction. They have no right.
 They have no license as an organization that represents the interests of property owners to essentially intervene in an action to declare a property. Vacant so what the national association of slum Lords and and and.
 leeches is basically saying is that if they go around and say that these properties are Actively for sale or rent we somehow have to take that into consideration and slow down the process all I'm not you know I'm sorry. I'm not going to get myself worked up over this their interest is in gutting Any teeth that these policies have it cracks me up that number seven? Is it number seven?
 No, I'm sorry. Which one was it that said that, yeah, number five, whether a building has been deemed a public nuisance by the code official. That ordinance that we had was gutted to the point where we didn't have any public nuisances. And if you look around this city and you can tell me that we don't have public nuisances in some of these buildings, the ordinance never worked.
 It just galls me that we gave them this much power and authority. What is an ongoing rehabilitation? Does that mean if somebody sticks a building permit up there and the building is a hot mess, but it says that it's in an ongoing state of rehabilitation, we can't do anything? Or we have to take it into consideration that it's not vacant? This needed to be a good, strong, solid ordinance.
 And once again, they're wordsmithing it away. Look at Amendment No. 2. It's not just that two or more conditions are existing, and it's not in compliance with applicable ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations. So it's not an either, it's an and. So now we've put two requirements on something where we should have only one.
 for some of these buildings. All I'm going to say is go ahead and do it if we want to. Once again, they're weakening the city's ability to get at some of these properties and take care of them. No, I don't like them. I do think they're slumlords. We have them in my neighborhood, and I dare anybody to say something who doesn't. We live with this every single day. They are dangerous. They are nuisances.
 They accelerate blight and they're creeping into all corners of our most corners of our city. I'm not saying they shouldn't be able to speak and be heard, but this is ridiculous. Director Meyer.
 I guess I can speak to a couple of these amendments. Amendment number one is a factor that the code official will take into consideration. One of the other factors that he has to take into consideration is statements by neighbors that the property is vacant. So if he's going to take into consideration statements by neighbors when evaluating a property, it would make sense also that he would take into the same consideration from somebody who's working on the building or is actively listing it for sale.
 In terms of the definition of public nuisance, it's not the definition of a public nuisance that must be under our other ordinance. There's a definition in our ‑‑ in this ordinance is what a public nuisance is, which has a number of items listed in it. So we wouldn't have to go through that process under our code and have a hearing and declare something a public nuisance. It would be defined more narrowly under this ordinance itself.
 Are you saying that the old ordinance is no longer in effect for declaring a chronic nuisance? I'm not saying it's over. I'm not saying there's no new area. Okay. They're conflicting. Really? I'm confused. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Ms. Chauvin. Your Honor, I agree with Alderman Hervey. I see actually these ordinances are—I'll be less kind. These are dumb like a fox ordinances. These are dumb like a fox amendments. These—the Realtor Association
 and the apartment owners and such elements of them. I'm not going to throw a big net, but their interests are divergent from ours. And we cannot continue with status quo. This can't happen. And basically what these ordinances do are basically continue status quo. I've had homes in the first ward under rehabilitation for 52 years.
 And they're blight. So Amendment 1 is dopey. And you can hang a for sale sign or a for rent sign. I don't care. The building, the vacant lot, it doesn't matter right now if the vacant lot in Amendment 8 is under compliance. It may not be in two weeks. So these, I agree with Alderman Hervey, these series of amendments gut.
 the registry this registry is long needed and i again i want to commend the city attorney mr cagnoni city staff and those that want to get a handle on blight it is one of the single biggest problems
 In our city, the realtor association and the apartment associations are not our allies in this. They are our adversaries, and they demonstrated it time and time again. Again, there are responsible property owners. There are responsible realtors. There's all kinds of good folks that are out there. But unfortunately, this does not come from them. This comes from the element in.
 the city that has produced what we see in our neighborhoods and I will pose all these amendments all them in back I'd like to withdraw my second to the motion to amend Second has been withdrawn. So at this point We move past the amendments. Is there any discussion on item number seven as it was written?
 We had a motion and Alderman Beck made a second. He's withdrawn that second, but we should probably allow an opportunity for another alderman to second. Is there another alderman willing to second Alderman Beach's placing up these amendments up for passage? Hearing none, okay. Alderman Thunberg. Yeah, thank you, Mayor Pro Tem.
 You know, I for one, you know, oh, I'm sorry. We ought to, no, I was up for discussion. Are we done? Are we? Yeah. Continue. For further discussion on the matter, we'll need a second to the motion on the eight amendments that have been proposed by Alderman Beach. Is there a second on the floor? So we have to bring up a, I'm sorry, we have to bring up a second in order to discuss. To further discuss the original item. If we want to discuss the amendments further, we would need a second.
 And then open the floor for reopen the floor for discussion. Okay, I'll second that to open the floor for discussion Thanks mayor pro tem, you know, yeah, I Appreciate all the work that has been done with the city legal with city administrator with the two different organizations with the owner and Realtors Association and the Rockford Department Association I have dealt with blight in
 extensively in the third ward as well I know everyone has their their blight respectively in all their wards I give it I fair enough say some some more than others I have learned not to to to paint a with a broad brush the whole all all landlords as I say not all landlords are slumlords but there's no question there are some that are out there
 and I appreciate the work that was done with looking at amending some of these things within this registry I also and that may be something a topic that would say that someone may say well let let them go after the city on a legal
 On the legal side of things because I sometimes question whether Some of some of it the way it's written whether it could be sought in court Um, I look at this as being not as much lenient towards those different organizations But I look at as as this is again a work in progress I'm afraid that if if I
 This doesn't go through, it's going to get held up and we're not going to get anywhere. I think we're at a point right now when we're considering the land bank and we're considering this ordinance that together we're going to come milestones than where we were previously. I've said all along that this going forth, we're going into per se unchartered territory within our own city
 but we've looked at other cities and how they have taken upon these ordinances. I know Attorney Meyer has done quite a bit of work on this as well. And I've always said that we can make amendments as we go along. We may not agree with all these amendments as they are stated right here, but again, a work in progress and that's what this is about.
 Mumbled a little bit too high. So thank you mayor pro tem. Thank you all of them in Toonberg So is there further discussion on these amendments all the Monroe's so and just kind of looking over the amendments you know, I would agree with a few of the statements made earlier that you know, a lot of these amendments do change our Registry quite a bit and I had asked earlier in
 in our meeting before council would it be possible or would it be possible to push forward some of the amendments separately that we'd not vote on it all as one package that the amendments be proposed separately wasn't
 popular idea but for exit for amendment number three it says buildings which are actively for sale or for rent and are otherwise secure and which are in compliance with all applicable ordinances codes legislation and regulations i don't see a huge problem with that i mean that's a house that is for sale um it's within you know guidelines of really selling a house
 I would be for number three for item number eight, which talks about vacant lots I don't believe that that was a huge component of our vacant and foreclosing property Drive that I feel like that's within the means of some of the things that I would be in support of but for the rest of it, you know one and two and and items of four or five
 Six and seven I'm not exactly four So I'm wondering if it's possible to to push these forward separately and and just see which ones we support and which ones You know, is that possible because I feel like some of this does have some components that move it forward tonight And look at the rest
 if that would please you want to take them one by one or do you want to separate by three or eight as alderman beach is suggesting i just don't take two or we the clerk can call the roll when it's time to under amendment one just head it that way alderman beck i'm sorry slump them together unless anybody wants to separate them right and then they can vote yes or no i mean we've had one alderman request three and eight that's fine just both the rest together right okay so we can separate them
 You can, when we go around the horn, it's one motion with several amendments. It would be acceptable to vote like we do with community reports or ordinances that you can vote on, aye for all of them or vote aye on some and no on the rest. Just make sure we're clear as to which ones they are. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Why? Seems like deja vu all over again. Okay.
 Several years ago when we sit down to do the landlord register We met for two years In coming up with listening to the residents And we had a pretty good ordinance done and then The landlords and the realtors were at the table the whole two years in discussing it and
 But then the landlords, same thing happened before that's happening right now. They got a hold of it and they put their two cents in. And we have what we have today, which is our communities destroyed, which is vacant houses. There are a lot of good landlords in this community. There are a lot of good property owners in this community that I work with on a daily basis. And then there are those that have created our community such it is.
 It kind of irritates me that with the administration and the staff that we have that is very qualified and know the problems and have been working with those existing problems for years, that we would start this all over again. The ordinance, and as I spoke with the mayor over the weekend, the ordinance as it was, I was very supportive of it. But this is garbage.
 And to all the residents in this community, pay attention, pay attention to who wants to continue to keep your community with blighted, blighted, unwanted buildings and structures in your community. Because this is exactly what this will do if you vote for this amendment. Thank you.
 Alderman Hervey. Just very quickly, I should have followed up sooner to Alderman Durkee because he made a good point. I hope I didn't come across as saying that all landlords are slumlords and predators. They certainly are not and like Alderman Thompson-Kelly, I have some excellent landlords in the Fifth Ward. We have excellent landlords throughout the city. I was speaking of the people who seek to weaken
 in a very concerted and organized fashion the city of rockford's ability to protect its citizens to improve our properties it's less profitable for them i understand that and i understand what their objections are but these are the people who help defeat home rule because they don't want to see a strong rockford they want to see a weak rockford if i was making money off of it i would too
 So I do apologize sincerely if I made it seem like all landlords were slumlords and predators. I would say if the shoe fits, they should wear it, but it certainly doesn't apply to a lot of very good people. So my apology. Director Cagnoni? Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. You know, just to add some context to the ordinance and the proposed amendments and
 Thank you for your ongoing support. I've had the opportunity to speak with many of you over the last two weeks and There's no doubt that as an organization as a city We're taking a very proactive a port approach to remove blight out of our neighborhoods on multiple levels understanding that it's critical to the overall strength of our neighborhoods to remove the blight and not one
 of these items in itself that we've either been doing over the last several months or are proposing this evening are the silver bullet to fix our neighborhoods. But it is important that we have a number of tools available so that we can remove
 blight and certainly hold irresponsible property owners accountable for the properties that they own. And we're fortunate to have a tremendous amount of responsible property owners, whether those are owner-occupied or rental units that are the core of our neighborhoods. After the approval took place at the committee related to this ordinance, we had
 spoke to a number of you or at least i had spoken to a number of you that we were entertaining conversations with the realtors association and the department association but we would not be in a position to accept amendments that negatively impact the overall function of the ordinance that proposed and
 And the amendments that Director Meyer has brought forward were evaluated by our legal team and our individuals that are working on blighted and removed property. And I appreciate, you know, when you look at those amendments outside of the context of the rest of the ordinance that's on the meeting portal, it could be a little bit misleading.
 But I wanted to just walk through a couple examples and I may lean on Director Meyer just for clarification. So we have a vacant and foreclosure property. Every property that goes through a foreclosure is required to register under this ordinance. So there's not an exception for those properties that are going through the foreclosure process to exempt themselves out.
 Additionally, when we talk about vacant property, there are a number of factors to be taken into consideration when the code official deems that these properties need to be on the register. The amendments identify some scenarios in which...
 that could be deemed not to be vacant or required under the registry but the the other provisions of the code if it's a blighting property if it's a property that does not have utilities it's a property that's gutted on the inside it's a property that's under continuous rent or under continuous you know disrepair
 We have the ability to require this property to be on the registry. So I just wanted to make sure that we were clear on what the intent of the amendments were. We were trying to make reasonable accommodations without negatively impacting the overall structure of the ordinance. Certainly, you know, Mr. Meyer can add to those comments. Thank you.
 if you'd like regarding regarding those amendments, but that was the overall intent Certainly if the council wants to move forward without any amendments, that's there. That's at your just at your discretion And or partially review these amendments, that's fine as well
 Director Myers and on when we were going through these and discussing them, you know, we are satisfied that the amendments themselves wouldn't impact our ability to to Tag vacant and blighted property with with understanding that you know, there are certain situations when there's an unoccupied property That's otherwise up to code. There's not a danger. That's not something that's going to be on our radar that is not something we need to go after and so
 So these amendments would, I guess, would address some of those types of properties. And the reality is, if there's a property in a neighborhood that is unoccupied but is otherwise up to code,
 It's not something that the City of Rockford necessarily would have an interest in tackling. We're looking at the properties that are bringing down neighbor property values, that are boarded up, that are gutted on the inside, that are nuisances, that are overgrown with weeds and the like. So going over this since back in September,
 When we were looking at all the different ways to amend this, we were satisfied on a staff level that these are not going to negatively impede or impact our ability to do our job.
 Alderman Durkee, I'll start this way. Thank you. Let me speak again, Your Honor. As a matter of disclosure, our family owns commercial and rental property in Rockford and in the region. And as I've looked at the rental registry, and I even look at this ordinance, if I put the family business hat on, there's no threat to us from the original ordinance. And there's no threat from the rental registry as it existed when it first came out.
 But if I put my devious hat on, I can play games with the city all day long with some of these amendments. And I agree that the city intent, the city intent of staff was to get a CRAFT a great ordinance.
 However, again, we're not questioning that. We're questioning the ability of unscrupulous characters to drive through this ordinance and play games with it, be dumb like a fox, and continue the status quo. And I'm telling you, as a landlord, I can play games with the city and get an attorney and do it all day long and gut this. And that's what I'm opposed with. Did you want to respond, Director Meyer? Okay.
 Alderman Toonberg. I appreciate all my colleagues Concerns and such and I want to say I've considered myself attacking blight in the third ward pretty darn hard And there's not one of us sitting on council that want to see blight because I think we all know that blight Is coincides with crime as well? so
 though my i'd like to add to my remarks earlier is that one of the things that i looked at these amendments as being and working with attorney meyer on it uh his work with these other entities and with the city administrator cagnoni is that it what was what seemed to be brought to my attention and and such was
 more of a vagueness gray area in some of these previous the way it was previously written so these were brought in I understand alderman Durkee's concerns as well at the same time I the way it was seems to me the way it was written before almost seems like a legal challenge waiting
 to the happening on the city so the money we're going to spend on on defending those it could be an ongoing cost but yes there i see that there are how long can a place be up for sale can you stick a for sale sign out i can see that argument but i think there is
 some muscle in the amendment that states as long as that property is in code and it is not out of code from the city's standpoint, then things are better in that case.
 You know, I'd like to say that I thought when I looked at this, it took a lot of the vagueness out of the way the ordinance was written previously. So thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. So we have to call the question. Director Meyer, statement. Call the question. I believe we're asking for a vote on these amendments, correct? That's correct. Okay. Clerk, can you call the roll? Okay.
 Durkee Logan Yes You're voting on the amendments before you Toombers Hervey No Irvins No Thompson-Kelley No Hoffman Aye Rose No Beach Quinones Beck McNeely Shirely Item number one, five ayes, nine noes Item number two, eight noes, five ayes
 I'm sorry. Item number one was four eyes, nine nose. Item number three... Item number one is four eyes, how many nose? Four eyes, nine nose. Very good. Item number two is five eyes, eight nose. Item number three, five eyes, eight nose. Four, five, six, seven. Five eyes, eight nose. And item number eight is five eyes, eight nose. Okay. Could the legal director...
 Simple terms items one the amendments which one passed and which one failed. Yeah, they all failed very good. Okay so now we have the Motion to reconsider on the original item number seven, okay Amendments yes the amendments. There's a motion to yes clerk. Can you call the roll clarify? We're taking a vote on
 On all the amendments again, correct? That's correct. Okay. All the men. All the men. Voting on all the amendments as a full package. So, yes. No. Logaman. Nay on one and five, aye on the remainder. Thunberg. Aye. Hervey. No. Irvins. No. Thompson-Kelly. No. Hoffman. I'm sorry. Rose. No. Beach. Quinones. Beck.
 McNeely Back is a no Sure Ellie. Hi Hoffman Item number one is three eyes Ten nose item number two three eyes ten nose item number three Five eyes eight nose item number four three eyes ten nose item number five
 3 ayes 10 noes item 6 3 ayes 10 noes item number 7 3 ayes 10 noes item number 8 5 ayes 8 noes thank you items all the amendments fail okay is there any further discussion item number 7 as it's written thank you mayor pro tem i want to thank staff for the work they've done on those it's not
 an easy task to come up with ordinance legislation that's pleasing to everyone to accommodate all the taxpayers within the city. So I appreciate the effort of what you have done. I question the overlap in what we currently have and what's being proposed.
 with this registry. I certainly think that we need the registry. There's no doubt about that, just as with the rental registry, to be able to make people accountable. I have a property, it's either on Court or Church, where the property owner has been working on that property for over 10 years. And I've turned it in several times that should fall under our curtain
 current ordinances and certainly staff has been out there and staff has attempted to address the the issue i'm not sure why this property owner is able to still be in the same state as it has been for at least 10 years but i hope having this registry and the requirements will
 not allow a property owner to still be in construction over 10 years later. I know that some of the issues that this registry is supposed to help is with the buildings as well as the code enforcement, but I do hope that that is what will happen. I do support having the registry,
 And some of the items that we have just disapproved some of them did as Alderman Rose had said some of them do make sense. So I hope that we can revisit this And come up with some items that makes that make this a little stronger I certainly support the realtors and the apartment building organization that has
 contributed as they did contribute with the rental registry. I hope that we continue to consider them because not, as has been stated here tonight, not all property owners, rental property owners, are bad individuals or bad businesses. I know I have a lot of property owners that, in my ward, that should not own properties.
 I'm not sure that this registry will get rid of those individuals, but I'm certain that it will help to get rid of some of them at least some of their properties, so I hope as I said as we move forward that we can strengthen this And make it even better for our city and again. Thank you staff for what you've done very good Thank you clerk. Can you call the roll turkey no come in? I?
 Toonberg. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. You said aye. Okay. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Okay, thank you. We will move on to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you.
 Miranda of understanding addendum with resource innovations LLC for weatherization work place these five up for passage Items one through five are up for passage any discussion. No surprising Hearing none clerk. Can you call the roll? turkey Logum in timber Herbie urban Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back
 McNeely Shirely aye 13 eyes Thank you all items pass we move on to item number Roman numeral 7 a 1 alderman rose Yes, oh, I'm sorry my apologies so we will have officers reports. Is there any reports?
 Alderman Ann Thompson Kelly. Thank you. First of all, I'd like to thank the Matt knots and the fire department staff for this weekend and going around in the community and replacing smoke detectors and Other things along with the Red Cross They volunteered, you know, we
 We look at our firefighters and all the volunteering that they do in this community and the things that they do in this community. It should be acknowledged. Sunday was a very cold, snowy day, and our firefighters were out there going to residents' homes, knocking on their doors, installing smoke alarms in their homes. And I just want to make sure that the chief,
 gets back with Matt and the staff and let them know how much I appreciate it. And we're going to get that new fire station on rural Avenue. You better believe it.
 I also want, they all reminded me of that too. I also want to notify Beverly Park residents that our neighborhood watch groups will no longer be at District 1. We are looking at a new location for those neighborhood watch groups to happen. So they will be hearing from me in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Thanks. Swedish American Hospital.
 State of the art new clinic on Marcassano Drive in the fabulous fifth ward. I've said it before, Swedes saw a need and they just stepped in and filled it. No fanfare, no bragging, no.
 Major things they just very quietly assessed and and took action where needed and I want to thank really all the folks who came out For the the grand opening or the open house this weekend and also the fire department was there But I really appreciate the show of support I hope people will give the clinic a try not just to come out for the open house
 I mentioned I transferred my cancer care back up to UW-Madison, and I'm going to be transferring my
 local care to Swedish American. And that's not a stunt. That is top-notch medical. You don't play with that stuff. That's top-notch medical care. And I hope people do give it a try, not just because it's closed, but because it's also darn good medical care. So the Swedish Americans Board, Dr. Bill Gorski, who has since retired as CEO but was recently,
 pivotal in the genesis of this whole development. Dr. Michael Bourne stepped in, kept it going, and to all the folks at Swedes who brought this to fruition, a heartfelt thank you from all of us in Southwest Rockford. Thank you. Thank you, and congratulations, Alderman Hervey. I know you've been looking for that for a long time.
 Alderman Rose. Just a big thank you to our Rose crew in the recent snow. If you're an alderman and you know the snow's coming, you really start to expect calls. And I actually got some pretty good reviews from...
 From people in the neighborhood on on how quickly it was done. So it was nice. I didn't receive a phone call Um, I know that we're in good hands with mark and mitch leatherby um, so I wanted to say thank you to to those guys, I also want to say thanks to Our legal staff that is tirelessly working on the essex project and also the 1920 demolition so I'm hoping that in the next uh
 few weeks we get some better new some good news on that and i know you guys are working on it so you know keep your fingers crossed on those two uh developments as they come forward very good alderman huffman thank you i also want to really really thank public works i was certain i was going to be dragged over the coals because of the snow
 one complaint on next door and um I let them know that they might have been missed and I've discussed this with Public Works before that happens in Rolling Green because of our crazy roads they think they've hit the road and instead they hit another one twice but there was only one report and that was on next door and absolutely no phone calls and I am so grateful not even for salt nothing no complaints thank you great job
 I can echo those statements also. I only received one email through the snowstorm and it was to say they did a good job in the cul-de-sac.
 alderman mcneely thank you mayor pro tem i want to join in with that and thank the public works for the great job they did with the snow understanding they may have been a little relaxed considering the weather has been so good up until now but when i drove through the ward the main streets that should have been cleaned were clean and by the next day even the side streets were pretty much clean so thank you very much very good thank you
 Any further officers reports? All right, we'll move on to Roman numeral seven, unfinished business committee reports laid over, A1, Alderman Rose. So we have a, which a committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement by laws to establish the Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority. I had an amendment that I was going to propose.
 The committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement and bylaws to establish the Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority between Winnebago County, Boone County, the City of Rockford, and the City of Belvedere. I move to amend the committee report to reflect that the ordinance approving the IGA include the following language. The city will withdraw from the Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority as provided in the IGA.
 IGA if the NL IBA does not adopt policies rules or regulations prohibiting the NIL BA from independently exercising eminent domain powers the the amendment will need a second so we have a motion and a second for the amendment is there discussion on the amendment element Herbie mr. Kagnoni
 My reading of the land banks authority and what it is It does not have independent authority to exercise eminent domain. It is not a municipality It is not a governmental unit in in the sense of eminent domain powers So how can they exercise eminent domain? director Meyer
 I would agree with you. The consensus, at least that we have looked into with Mr. Cagnoni, was that land banks, at least in Illinois, do not have their own independent authority to exercise eminent domain. They could do that in conjunction with one of the other municipalities exercising eminent domain power.
 There's no legislation specifically addressing that. The other land banks that we looked at had similar language that's in this IGA that doesn't expressly address that issue. But this is part of our ongoing conversations, that there were concerns out there that this land bank itself would independently start –
 instituting those types of procedures. So from our perspective, it was more language to make that explicitly understood that the land bank would not be taking those steps, whether we need it legally or not. It was just to let everyone know in certain terms that we were expecting that to happen. .
 If I could address it real quick, yeah, what this is saying, what this is letting the other, I guess, other partners know and the land bank authority itself is that once the land bank is established, the authority is going to have to develop policies and regulations on how it governs itself. And among those policies and regulations will have to include terms letting itself know, I guess, that it will not begin eminent domain proceedings of its own authority.
 So this ordinance is just for us inside, this is not- That's correct. It's just letting- Respected of anything in the land bank. It's letting the other members know that when the land bank is formed and they're adopting those policies that we expect, as the city of Rockford expects that to be a policy that's voted on and enacted. And I'm assuming this appeases some group or organization that came up with a perceived threat.
 of eminent domain being exercised by a group that doesn't have that authority? I don't know if it appeases anybody, but that was certainly a concern that was addressed on a number of instances, not just with us, but also with the other, with the county and the other municipalities. And in lieu of amending or attempting to amend an IGA that deals with multi-jurisdictions,
 we didn't deem necessary, this is taking a step to let those folks know that we understand their concern and will not be moving forward these powers. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion in the amendments? I'll let me make Neely.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I have not supported the land bank. I will not be supporting this. I certainly understand why, as the city attorney has explained to us why, some might consider having that added to it. However, I still think that we should go about this differently in order to address some of the problems that we have within our communities. Very good. Thank you.
 Clerk, can you call the roll on the amendment? Durkee. Aye. Bogeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no. Amendment passes. Alderman Rose. Then the only second item is the actual amendment.
 You need to place that item up for passage as amended? Yeah, I place this item up for passage as amended. Any discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Discussion and a concern that I have in the land bank and looking at the land bank that we're also working with our community development department, our fire department, our firemen.
 Human Services Department is for future sites or future development that the city may may happen or our Public Works Department that all those can all those sites are taken into consideration for city use you know like we're looking for the storage for a
 salt or Storage for at one time we were looking at storage for our Public Works Department equipment Fire stations and those type of things that that in this land bank that we give all those considerations on on banking Director Cagnone, I might not certain I Fully understand the the question you know the primary purpose of the land bank is to
 you know, combat community deterioration and blight within our neighborhoods. And so there would be, you know, a multitude of opportunity for land bank to assist us in returning property that's blighted and unproductive back to the tax rolls.
 There are going to be cases where we can't do that. All I'm saying, and the example I will give you is, when we started looking for our police stations, the locations, the sites, how many we were going to have, just keep in mind that we're going to be needing locations for various departments in the community, and they be on the list as well, so we don't be purchasing property. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Clerk, can you call the roll? Turkey. Aye.
 Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Hervey? Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Item passes. Move on to Roman numeral 8, motions and resolutions. Alderman Beck? Aye.
 I have an award of bid for Water Division Electrical Services to Ron Carlson Electric and Morse Electric for an estimated contract amount of $125,000. The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions.
 Next is award of bid for motor repair and maintenance to precision drive and control for an estimated contract amount of $30,000 The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions Next is the award of bid for street sweeping to Elgin sweet sweeping services for an estimated annual total of five hundred and seventy one thousand $552 contract duration is three years with two additional one year extensions
 The additional extensions are subject to City Council approval. Next is the award of non-competitive contract for heavy duty truck proprietary repair parts for an estimated annual value of $25,000. Contract duration is one year. Next is the renewal of agreement for workers compensation excess coverage 2019 to Safety National Casualty Corporation.
 uh... for the contract mountain rates of premium is based on estimated annual payroll of eighty five thousand two hundred twenty eighty five million two hundred twenty five thousand two hundred sixty six dollars at twenty cents per one hundred dollars of payroll for a new toll estimate annual premium of a hundred seventy thousand four hundred fifty seven dollars contract duration is one year and the last one is a preparation submittal of a u s e p a grant application to apply for the following
 community wide assessment grants for hazardous substances and petroleum Site specific assessment grant and a US EPA brownfields cleanup grant combined total is of these grants is in excess of about $400,000 and I place these items up for passage. Thank you any discussion items one through six all of them in McNeely Thank You mayor item number two
 It states that the estimated contract amount of $30,000 based on unit pricing. So is that for one unit or the total contract? Mr. Stockman? That would be based on an annual expenditure of $30,000. Okay, thank you. Alderman Durkee. Your Honor, I brought this up at committee on number six.
 The environmental cleanup, I brought up the issue Mr. Myers, and I just didn't want it to be forgotten that I don't think you would forget. But we did have an attorney stop by us, you know, the city council to look at clawing back.
 some of these companies that have left these brownfields with contamination and going after the original owners to clean these sites up. I guess there's some environmental law that's allowing us to do that. I don't know what happened to that at all. So thank you. That's my only comment. Director Cagnoni?
 Just to respond, we had some conversations this week or over the week related to your comments, and we're piecing together what had happened in the past, and you are correct. We had an attorney that had come in and evaluated some properties, Barbara Coleman being one of those specific properties, to identify what could be pursued related to recovery, or we're going to reinitiate some of those conversations and where we left off.
 As I recall, there were some situations where there wasn't value at the end of the pursuit, but we'll make sure that we get a response back to you and the rest of the council. Thank you. Further questions? Clerk, can you call the roll? Turkey. Hogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye.
 Shirley I 13 eyes. Thank you items passed. Thank you new business ordinances Planning Development Committee alderman Rose We have six items. I
 under new business an ordinance approving the adoption of the first amendment to the South Rockford tax increment financing TIF district Redevelopment plan and project area item to an ordinance approving the South Main Rock Street Coleman village tax and increment financing district redevelopment plan and project area item 3 an ordinance approving the designation of the South Main Rock Street Coleman village tax increment financing TIF district redevelopment project area an
 Item 4, an ordinance approving the adoption of a tax increment allocation financing for the South Main Rock Street Coleman Village Redevelopment Project Area. Item 5, an ordinance approving the second amendment to the rental match mortgage and promissory note for 1055 East State Street, Longwood Gardens, and the agreement for Lot Z.
 that would be parking lot located at 1041 east state street in conjunction with the redevelopment of the property and then number six an ordinance approving the inter intergovernmental agreement and bylaws to establish the northern illinois land bank authority between winnebago county boone city of rockford and the city of belvedere i place these items up for passage those items are before you any discussion hearing none clerk can you call the roll logeman tumberg herbie
 Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirely. Hi I'm in one two three and four thirteen eyes five and six twelve eyes one. No Code and regulation committee alderman Frank Beach under nine be passed
 an ordinance approving a special use pit for the installation of a solar farm at 1303 1325 same as in Road number two and
 In order to approve the sale of tobacco products at 2901 11th Street. Number three, in order to approve the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with gas station and convenience store at 818 South 6th Street. Number four, in order to approve the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station at 818 South 6th Street.
 Number five, in order to approve the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an indoor and outdoor market and beer garden at 116 North Madison Street.
 Number six, an ordinance approving the landmark designation of 504 North 1st Street. Number seven, ordinance approving the City of Rockford vacant and foreclosing property registry. And number eight, an ordinance approving the amendment to the City of Rockford Liquor Code, Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 3-3. All those up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Alderman Beach. Ordinances 1 through 8 are before you. Any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, call the roll. Dirk. Aye. Aye.
 Logan in Tuber Herbie Irvin Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirely I I'm swine to 13 eyes. I am number 3 11 eyes 2 nose Item number 4 13 eyes item number 5 12 eyes 1 no item 6 7 & 8 13 eyes the ordinance of past
 Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Beck. Thank you your honor. I have an ordinance approving the 2019 supplemental appropriation appropriation ordinance I have an ordinance approving the amendment to the 2019 fee schedule establishing new fees for fire garage Services have an ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances section 9-4 2 and 9-43 to authorize fire department repair facility to charge fees to provide service for external fire departments and
 And item four is an ordinance approving the memorandum of understanding addendum with Resource Innovations LLC for weatherization work. I place these up for passage. Is there any discussion on those four items before you? Clerk, can you call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? So.
 All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? We are adjourned. Thank you.