January 11th, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Logeman? Here. Toomer? Here. Fragg? Here. Irby? Here. Irvin? Here. Thompson-Kelly? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Present. Thank you.
 speech here you know what it is handling here big kneeling here 13 present we have a quorum under motions and resolutions there's nothing under item a planning and development nothing under item b code and regulation under item three finance and personnel committee and i just asked uh if you are off from you if you can mute until you have questions we're sorry
 Item 1 committee recommends approval of the proposed canvas fund resolution, creating a canvas fund, utilizing the 3% local tax on canvas sales for the purpose of funding programs for economic and business development, education programming, job training.
 health or other financial assistance to individuals, businesses, and communities within the City of Rockford that have been disproportionately impacted by Canvas-related laws. Just a reminder, this item had been laid over as of November 16th, 2020. Is there a motion to approve? I'll make the motion. Is there a second? Mayor, I have a second. We have a motion. I have a second.
 is there a discussion yes mr mcneely you're now on mute okay first of all i want to thank the alderman and staff for holding this over i had worked with a number of the aldermen to try and come up with something that i thought would be a little bit more detailed and a little bit more appropriate
 And we worked on that for quite a while, and we did come up with something, but. The night that alderman Herbie was supposed to read that in. Um, it got laid over before she could read it in. So, what I would like to do Mr. mayor at this time is read in. The resolution that I submitted to your office and the legal office last week.
 um is this a mo is this a motion to amend uh director uh mcnamara is this a motion to amend yes i'll make it a motion to admit first i just wanted to read it in i'm sorry i just it's a point border i don't know if mr meyer can answer under what circumstances does that have to be presented in writing to the council as a whole
 that would need to be presented directly to the council floor okay that's what i was afraid of the only thing that was ever submitted to the group as a whole was the amendment that was asking for um human services to sort of be the lead in receiving
 And, you know, getting proposals to council so that someone within the city was designated
 and so but it was also clear we weren't setting up some outside agency to make these decisions so and then afterwards it was pointed out that uh mr francis office should also be working with miss parham so that was what was going to come up but that's the only thing that i'm aware of that's been presented to the council as a whole that's correct i have
 Mr. Mayor, I have not, as you know, presented this to the council as a whole. I can do that for next week, but I was hoping that I could at least read this in tonight. Mr. Mayor, sorry, we have a lot of people off. I'm just muting people, sorry, so I can hear.
 Mr. Meyer, could you please provide me some direction? We have a motion. We have a second regarding the item on the floor right now. Is now the time to provide that? So rule three requires that if anybody wants the motion in writing, it has to be in writing. If it's not in writing, Councilor Flohr, then it doesn't need to be accepted as a motion at this time. All right. And just help me understand, Mr. Meyer, I have a motion and a second for the item that is on the agenda and wasn't. Correct.
 correct so it's now the time that alderman mcneely would provide hers uh now or anytime is okay to move to amend that item that's on the agenda right now yes you could make the motion but under our council rule it should be in writing the motion to amend this item should be in writing and provided to the city council okay you're on mute alderman mcneely excuse me uh
 Director, it has to be the motion has to be in writing? Your amendment. I mean, the amendment has to be in writing? Yes. Because we make amendments all the time that's not in writing. But okay, whatever I have to do. Okay, so we right now have a motion and we have a second. Alderman Hervey, did you have a discussion? And you're on mute, sorry. Sorry about that. Okay.
 Just another point of order wouldn't we have to Wouldn't you have to move to lay it over and we have to vote to lay it over because it's already been laid over once If alderman McNeely would like my understanding is with alderman McNeely would like to present her proposal the way to do it would yes, she would need to get it eight alderman to lay this item over and
 and then she would present the item in writing that she would have won and then it would be up for debate at a further date. Correct. Your Honor, I had a quick question. Yeah, go ahead. Is it possible for us to vote on the current item? And I mean, it's my understanding that it can be amended at any time, correct?
 That's correct. It could be amended at a later date for sure. So is it possible that we could move forward with the vote approving it and then Alderman McNeely could bring that amendment forward next week in writing? That is an option, yes. I'm looking to amend the resolution at that point, yes. That would be my suggestion. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, you had another comment? I'm asking that just be laid over then.
 So you're making a motion to lay this over? Yes, sir. So there's a motion to lay over this item again. Is there a second to that motion? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Third, all those in favor of the motion to lay this item over again.
 Hi, Logan. To work actually Wednesday. I'm sorry. I. No. Hi. Kelly.
 Aye. Hoffman? No. Rose? Beach? No. Quinones? Alderman Quinones? No. Thank you. Hanley? No. McNeely? Aye. Five ayes, eight noes. Okay. So we still have one item before us, item from numeral 2C1,
 Is there a further discussion on this item? Alderman Tumberg. Thanks, Mayor. Just for the record, I was. I got a little bit confused there. I would have voted no, but a little bit of confusion. I wanted to discuss.
 I think when we got into some all that legalese that I couldn't find wiggle my way in there and discuss it. Could we look at an amendment for us to have this reviewed on a yearly basis? Yeah.
 Just where those funds go to and how the verbiage is. You know how sometimes we have these three-year agreements, but then we change that to a three-year agreement but reviewable after one year? Can we look at something on this? Because otherwise I'm okay with it, but I just wanted to get that in there. Okay.
 Mr. Mayor, the rule will apply the same. This is going to be a motion to amend the item including the resolution itself that comes back before council. It will also need to be in writing or you can just make sure the record reflects as part of the minutes that staff can bring this matter back again to review which is what we've often done purchasing our contracts.
 Alderman to bird would it be sufficient for you if we put in that staff would. Bring this forward or bring this back to city council on an annual basis outlining where all the dollars have been spent and if it goes to initiatives or programs updates on outcomes of those initiatives or programs. Right now, just making sure that's not going to be an actual amendment to the resolution.
 That's accurate, Mr. Martin. But it is an amendment. Although we could do at any time, though, going forward, if we had reason to do. Correct? You can always make an amendment at any time to this moving forward. All right. Thanks, everyone. Your Honor. Your Honor, I'm Dirkie. Thank you, Your Honor. And I saw on my phone that I think you tried to call me this afternoon. Was it about this issue? No.
 And I'm sorry that I missed your call. I know we talked about this before, and I think in general, in concept, I think we agree with some of the intent. My problem is that,
 Is that basically the wording of this is so vague that I don't know who doesn't qualify for it. I do like and I think it may be specified or we get into intergovernmental agreement with somebody like Prairie Street.
 legal, but I liked Alderman Hervey's idea to set aside funds for people who've been convicted that we could have their records expunged and offer financial and legal assistance to have that done. I mean, that would be the intent. I think that's happening even statewide. It's happening in many states. I think that that is an important feature of this.
 Everything else, though, I don't know what education, I don't know what youth programming is. I mean, a lot of these things are redundant. We have...
 things in place that fund these things and it seems like every time we get some some revenue we just sort of throw it at the wall and and and it's it's almost like the proverbial money and programs as and as if that solves things and i there's a lot of non-specificity we do have challenged neighborhoods and challenge businesses in certain areas of the city
 and the communities. And we all know where they are and where they reside. I would much rather have this really tailored and specified to basically say, you know, and maybe, again, this all could be done at a later date, I don't know, where we work with another government or nonprofit to expunge specific records that,
 of those individuals convicted of cannabis possession and then to basically uh use this the majority the other portion of these funds to um business development uh but um some of the other some of the other stuff and i have no idea what any of that means i'm sure it's well intended
 But like I said, it just appears to be the proverbial money and programs. And who knows? You know, I don't know what it means to be disproportionately impacted by cannabis laws. I do know if somebody was convicted.
 but I don't know what that means. If my uncle was convicted, it impacted me and I did bad in school, so I need job training. I don't know. So that's why I have problems with this ordinance as it is. Thank you, sir. MS. Your Honor, Alderman Hervey, may I be heard? MR. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. And before I get to others, I would add, I think
 I look at this policy as an overarching policy to which we will have specific either initiatives or economic development items that come before the council meeting.
 with each one that has specificity. So I think your comment about vagueness, I think it's somewhat purposely vague so that aldermen, when each item comes before you, you have, I think it's specific enough in who it's supposed to impact, but provide some latitude and flexibility to the council and to staff to address it as we feel will have the greatest impact at that time. Alderman Herbie, and then I'll go to Alderman Beach. Thank you.
 I WANTED TO THROW JUST A COUPLE OF EXAMPLES, BUT THE BIG THING I WANT TO DO IS REMIND EVERYONE THAT ALL OF THE PROGRAMS UNDER HERE, ANYTHING THAT DOES COME IN, RATHER THAN JUST BEING SOMEBODY HAS THE AUTHORITY TO JUST SEE WHAT STICKS, HAS TO COME BACK TO CITY COUNCIL. AND I BELIEVE WHAT DIRECTOR PARHAM IS GOING TO BE DOING, BECAUSE I OFFERED TO WORK WITH HER ON IT, IS COMING UP WITH A FRAMEWORK.
 I think Alderman Rose mentioned some things that he sees from the educational arena that I don't see. I see returning, we call them returning citizens. Let's call them ex-offenders, ex-cons, because that's the way it's viewed. And that is everything from being able to get housing to jobs. We have an excellent program going in the city of Rockford.
 getting returning citizens certified for asbestos removal and what was the other one? Asbestos lead abatement. And they could get the actual certification. No sooner than we got about 13 people certified, the state changed the requirement for who could own the company
 You couldn't work independently, let's put it that way. And what we were hoping was that these gentlemen, I was actually going to do it for free, help them set themselves up as independent contractors, incorporated, all of the accoutrements that they needed to be able to go out and sign themselves up to work with some of the environmental companies. So,
 That would have been great for Barbara Coleman, a number of the cities, cities, the buildings that the city is demolishing have to have asbestos abatement. We could have had companies to hire those people. Many of them did wrong.
 and they keep getting punished for the rest of their lives. They can't find a place to live. They can't get hired by anyone. And then we wonder why they go out and sell some more weed or start selling weed instead of using it. So I'm hoping we'll give this a chance. Those are the kinds of things we want to bring to you. The state is doing some of the expungements almost automatically, right?
 And they've already laid out the criteria for that. They are what I call the low-hanging fruit. You know, the kid got caught with three joints. Two were considered personal use. So because he got caught with three instead of two, he got charged with intent to distribute.
 Those are the kinds of things that get into the weeds. They're not automatic expungement. Automatic would be the misdemeanor cases. And someone helped me out. Didn't they do almost 100,000 or 200,000 that were cases that never –
 I'm not going to get into why I think it happened because it gets into a bunch of negative stuff. And then we get really squared off and angry and it turns into a fight. And I don't want to fight. I want to get some help for these folks. So those are the kinds of things we're looking at doing. A lot of it I think will probably that Ms. Parham will be bringing to you is going to be job related, job training related. If there are agencies that already do that,
 Maybe we pay them their stipend for the, I'm thinking of the one, I think $450. It's CNC operations, not programming, but operations. So a number of things like that that we would be able to help them with. If we don't need the money for something, we're not just going to spend it just to spend it. If that's the case, then let's look at economic development.
 And if you want to know the communities that were impacted, we'll put together the prison population. And I'll ask you if you think that these are the only people who were smoking weed or possessing weed over the past 40, 45 years. But they're the people who were incarcerated, removed from the community, removed from their children's homes. You want to talk about childhood trauma, make daddy disappear. Better yet, make mommy and daddy disappear for two years or three years.
 So I'm not going to get into the fight about the rest of it. But I would ask that we give this the opportunity to make a positive difference. If you want to get rid of crime in this community, get rid of the opportunities for crime. There's enough people out there who are going to do it no matter what. So let's not have the people who want to go straight.
 get pushed into a corner or painted into a corner. Let's help them out of that corner. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Mayor, I want to speak as well.
 Your Honor, thank you. Something by audio here. I was unable to hear Alderman Cherokee's response. I wish he could summarize that. I'll call you, Frank. Okay. Thank you. You know, I do remember the other reentry program that you speak of. I was involved in that quite heavily.
 And one of the things that stuck in my mind is that it really was operated and funded by faith-based organizations.
 And they, as part of their responsibility, was out to seek employers that would take those that had come back out of prison and give them jobs, et cetera. And I still think there's some goodness in that model. And I think part of the problems that we're having now is, as was said, I think you said it, Alderman, is getting these folks jobs.
 and they've got to have these jobs. And so I've got other things to say, but we'll do that another night. I've got other ideas and thoughts that way. But can you kind of help me summarize what Alderman Durkee had to say? I'm sorry, I missed it. The whole audio went out. Alderman Durkee, I can attempt, but I don't want to do it with this justice. I would say...
 Yeah, he saw some aspects that he thought were positive in it, but overall. I want to make sure all the manager can get this right overall. He wish it was more specific and must vague. Is that accurate and less programmatic driven? Is that. Fairly accurate ultimate 30.
 Yeah, I won't go through the whole thing. Two things. I think it's a little bit vague, and I'd like to see more specific things targeted for economic development, which enhances job opportunities, obviously, in our challenged areas of the city. And the other thing is, if you recall, Alderman Hervey,
 had mentioned that some folks are in need of expungement of their records. And so I thought that was a great idea, and I thought if we partnered with somebody like Prairie Street Legal or somebody along those lines where we can get more robust, make some more robust efforts at expungement. So those are my two basic points. Thank you. And Alderman McNeil? Yes. Yes.
 this is alderman mcnally i just want to say alderman hervey it sounds as if you believe that our initial amendment to to this was presented and voted on and it hasn't been as you stated earlier so director parham from this presentation has no part in in what happens with these dollars in this program
 I just want to point that out. And we certainly can bring that back next week. Now, to just answer that directly, Director Parham, Director Franzen, and any other director who will be needed for any initiative, including, you know, Mr. Dagnoni and others,
 And if we need legal experience director Meyer, how we base decisions, many of the decisions on different items to bring forward chief would be part of it.
 It's kind of a team effort. So the only major difference in the amendment was that it would be only specifically Director Parham who would be the one who recommends it. This allows staff in a broader context, but I don't want to speak for Director Parham or Alderman Hervey, but I would say nearly all of our decisions are recommended.
 We meet every Monday as a department or as directors with myself to go over different items, different ideas and initiatives at a minimum. I understand, Mr. Mayor, and in general, that that's how you and the department has addressed various issues. But specifically to this.
 it's not stated there and what we have presented from our discussions the aldermen that have worked on this was for director parham or whatever director would be there after miss parham leave would be dealing with this specific fund and the dollars there now
 I don't know, Autumn and Herbie, what you were thinking, but I certainly don't want to mislead the public into thinking that this is under that department.
 AND I WOULD AGREE WITH ALDERMAN DERKEE WHICH I SAID SEVERAL WEEKS AGO WHEN THIS FIRST CAME UP IS THAT IT'S TOO GENERAL. NOT SPECIFIC. WE COULD COME UP WITH ANYTHING AND THROW THOSE DOLLARS AT IT. AND I JUST THINK WE HAVE TO MAKE THIS MORE SPECIFIC. AND I INTEND TO BRING THIS UP AGAIN NEXT WEEK. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER ANY OTHER DISCUSSIONS? ALDERMAN TOOMBURG.
 And just to clarify, Mayor, I think even with our discussion that, you know, the City Council, these disbursements, you know, will have to come up before City Council to vote. Am I not mistaken by that?
 Yeah, the dollars allocated would be approved by a full council for the initiatives or programs or an economic development project. All that would come back before council. So we will continue to have a say in the matter as a full council? Absolutely. Yep. On every item we do with it. Yep. Any other discussion? Art, could you please call the roll on that item? Sturkey. No. No.
 O'Connor aye. Schoonberg aye. Frost aye. Kirby aye. Irvin aye. Thompson-Kelley aye. Hoffman aye. Thank you. Edmund Rose, Beach aye. Quinones aye.
 STANLEY? AYE. MCNEILLY? NO. 11 AYES, 2 NOES. WE HAVE TWO MORE ITEMS. I'LL READ THEM BOTH SO WE CAN DISCUSS THEM. ITEM 2 IS AN EXCEPTION BOTH OF GRANTS. ITEM 2, ACCEPTANCE OF DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES EMPLOYMENT BARRIER REDUCTION PILOT GRANT FROM THE ILLINOIS ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCIES IN THE AMOUNT OF 112,000.
 The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from December 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. The funds will be used to provide services according to grant specifications. The third item is the acceptance of the Healing Illinois grant from Illinois Department of Human Services in partnership with Chicago Community Trust in the amount of $30,000. Again, that's a
 uh your agenda item i believe says fifty thousand i just want to reiterate that's for thirty thousand is there any discussion on those two grant opportunities yes
 alderman mcneely thank you on the the employment barrier reduction pilot um please tell me what we're going to use those funds for when we apply for that what was our intent what are we going to use those funds for uh director carham
 So Alderman McNeely, this pilot project, again, as the mayor read in, is funded by Illinois Department of Human Services.
 services, but it's actually flowing through the Illinois Association of Community Action Agencies as the pilot project because DHS wanted, again, to provide opportunities for agencies to be able to fund certain items that are not currently funded under most people's community services block grant programs and other programming that's
 specific around serving this particular population. So it's a pilot project specifically around addressing employment barriers. So basically they approached us and said, we're working on this pilot project. This is the cadre of type of activities that we're going to allow agencies to fund and provide. So it is actually very broad in terms of what they allow for participants. It's specifically, it's,
 In households that that are eligible and again, the eligibility is based on qualifying for snap, being a snap recipient or having a pending snap application or having basically timed out of your assistance from snap benefits. But again, so it addresses a myriad of issues that people face to securing employment. So that can be training costs. This can be cost related to employment.
 Uniform, so it's very broad in terms of what they allow us to do. So our perspective essentially is that when we work with these particular populations and folks that have the barriers, there's quite a bit of latitude in determining what exact services that you can cover under these funds. So it was not a matter of us saying, hey, we're going to apply for $100,000 to help cover the cost of child care. That's not...
 That's really not kind of how it worked in terms of IACA reaching out to us and asking us would we be willing to be a part of the pilot. But I'm happy to share some additional literature with you just on the program in general and the cadre of things that they are allowing community action agencies to support individuals who are receiving SNAP benefits and helping them to actually secure employment and overcome the barriers that they face for that.
 Are you required to keep those dollars separate from other programs that are coming through your department? If you mean, like, are we...
 I mean, of course, the accounting of those is separate. However, a person can qualify for some specific assistance under this barrier reduction pilot, and they may also say they may also have qualified for rental assistance. It's being treated differently because, again, this is specifically around trying to help people get employed again. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion?
 clerk could you please call the roll jerky hi logeman hi schoenberg hi ross hi herbie all right bourbon hi thompson kelly hi offman hi rose
 Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Stanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 13, aye. Thank you. Before we get to office, let's report our progress. We go back for public speaking. You can read our public statement. Will do. I'll have you at work.
 Public Speaker, Mr. John Peck, apparently says good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the men, all the women, and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 17, 27-28. This Proverbs highlights several benefits to keeping quiet. One, it is best policy. You have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who are wiser.
 Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you have something important to say. Then he attaches an article titled, Trump Allies Help Plan Promote the Reality That Led to Capital Attack.
 It says, in the days before a violent mob of Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol building on Wednesday, President Donald Trump's political apparatus worked behind the scenes with pro-Trump groups to plan and promote events in Washington, D.C. that ultimately led to Wednesday's attack on Congress.
 Speaking at the March to Save America rally at the Ellipse in President's Park on Wednesday, President Trump urged his team of supporters to march to the Capitol in protest of the Electoral College vote count, telling the crowd he would join them but ultimately did not do so. After delivering a speech pushing baseless and unfounded claims that the election was rigged and telling the rowdy crowd that we'll never take back our country with weakness, the fact is show strength.
 Trump's order sent thousands of his supporters marching to the Capitol, where some would overpower law enforcement, topple barricades, and riot inside the halls of Congress in an unprecedented attack that left five people dead. That's the end of the article. On that same day, this is from Mr. Crosby now, on that same day, President-elect Trump...
 Biden stated that if he had been in a Black Lives Matter protest, there would have been military, FBI, CIA, and other police presence. There's a big difference, and these were white extremists that want to be dictator. Donald Trump has been egging on before he ran for office and after he got in office. I've been talking about this and him for the past four years. Everyone I talked to said the same thing. We knew this was going to happen.
 either way there would have been more than five or six people killed i hate to even say that the number of our people that would have been killed or arrested would have been hundreds one why did the military take four hours to get there two why the uh some of the capital police opened the gates and doors and let some of the protesters in three how did they know which offices to go to and destroy four why was the white house not prepared
 and they knew that these extremists were coming a week in advance because wannabe dictator donald trump has been talking about this for a week five why were only 52 people arrested and over 40 of them were only arrested for curfew violations so how does this affect us here in rockford i only have three minutes so i will talk about that next week systemic racism you call uh you come alone doing virtual learning with school
 All right. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, we have officers' reports. We'll begin with Alderman Durkee. No reports. Alderman Mogman. Real quick, I just want to thank Rob Willoughby, Kyle Saunders, and Mitch Leatherby,
 And now I'm forgetting one chat alderman to work too, but all the men to work and I, we had a very fruitful conversation with rock for disposal today to address some of the issues that we've been having with having with alley pickups here in the words with with alley pickup. So
 More to follow, I'm sure, coming from the communications office at City Hall, but constituents of the second ward and the third ward and other wards, too, with alleys will be providing some guidance this week. I think the most important thing to remember, though, is if you're having issues with alley pickup to the residents out there, please just make sure you contact the alderman of the ward and we can work to resolve some of these issues for you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Tunberg. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I'd like to reiterate what Alderman Logeman just mentioned. I know we've been in contact quite a bit. Alderman Hanley has also been in many conversations with RRD and myself. Yeah, it's been a pretty precious time, let's just say that way, with the alley issue. I won't get any more descriptive.
 So, thank you to all those involved in helping out with that. And Alderman Logerman mentioned that. Also, I'd like to give a brief recognition to my nephew, Leif, who is a graduate of the Rockford Public Schools and is graduating or is, I'm sorry, is studying. He's going to be a three-major. He's triple majoring in astronomy.
 computational math and physics and none other than go roll tide tonight all right Bama we got a game start at 7 roll tide thanks mayor thank you I have also had concerns about the alley but my alderman didn't help you know
 I'm joking. Alderman Frost. Have a great week. See you next week. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Nothing, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Irvin. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Believe it or not, nothing. I don't believe it. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you.
 Nothing this evening, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Just real quick, I wanted to say thank you to Vicki Fongle and our Rockford police officers for doing a Zoom last week for the Nezada neighborhood. Officers Burke, Officer Warren, Deputy Chief Pan were on the call and really addressed a lot of the concerns that neighbors had for the Nezada neighborhood. And it was really great to have them on and hear.
 and talk through some of the things that people are experiencing, but also talk through, you know, I think COVID has really brought up some very tough situations for not just citizens, but our police department, and they shared some of those. But wanted to say a big thank you to them. And then just real quick, I'm just really excited about this marijuana, these dollars, and we don't always get a chance to talk
 talk much on it, but I really believe that this movement as a city, but also as a country, will allow us to address this issue, not as a criminal...
 kind of issue with drug abuse, but more as a medical issue in our country that, you know, whether you're addicted to a certain drug or you're, you know, trying to seek out help or you're seeking out employment, that we stop putting people behind bars for something that is more of a medical problem. And so...
 I'm really excited to see these changes happening for our community. And I wanted to mention that.
 Thank you. Alderman Beach. Two items tonight, Your Honor. One, I want to reach out and say thanks to the Park District for having the Alpine Park Snow Hill open this year. It's being used every day that there's snow. When there's not snow, they make their own. So we're grateful that it's open for visitors and the general public. I want to thank Park District for allowing that to happen this year.
 The other issue, Your Honor, is I really would like to ask our legal directors to kind of give us an update on this House Bill 163. That could have some pretty dire effects on us as a community.
 community. I know there seems to be good parts of it, but parts of it are very disturbing, and I would be happy to ask our legal director to kind of help us understand where this is in relation to where we are and the effects that it can have on us as a community. Thank you, Your Honor.
 So, Oliver Beach, just so everybody's aware, we do plan on having a legislative and lobbying meeting Tuesday. So I'll be able to give maybe a more in-depth analysis and report on all the bills that may be being passed and changes to law that may be passed this week as part of the lame duck session.
 House or Senate 163 is the bill specifically dealing with police reforms. And there are a number of amendments that you guys keep on shaping to address at another time. So it can be difficult for me to address all of them. But there were amendments to bail. There's a there's a statute of.
 updating the bail reform, which would call for an end to money bail. It would be phrased as pretrial release. It addresses quite a bit of cases that would be subject to pretrial release in the process for doing it and the conditions and considerations for when somebody is going to be granted release. I can tell you that we had earlier this fall, Senator Prakash Palanin had
 We reached out and addressed the concerns we had related to domestic violence and concerns we had that did not provide enough protections for survivors of domestic violence. I can tell you in that particular bill, several of those concerns have been addressed, but not all of them. We did have a conversation with Senator Sims, who's the sponsor of the bill, on Friday morning. He did seem receptive to making specific changes, and we thought we could tighten those up. There's also amendments to...
 use of force statewide calls for additional restrictions on use of force that are relatively broad sweeping, but at the same time are also consistent with what our police department has already implemented and have been practicing for years. There's changes to training, required police training, which also is an excellent idea. Unfortunately, I think it's too far play out
 It doesn't come with the dollars either. So that would be considered an unfunded mandate. The real problem with this goes through and changes how we're going to account for and pay for all the training, find all the training and then account for all the staff time off.
 Which is a big concern. There are some changes to the criminal code itself, making changes to the felony murder statute. There's changes to the statute for obstructing police officers, resisting police officers that I know is a concern to law enforcement across the state.
 um trying to hopefully get it out there were changes also to the collective bargaining position provisions for police unions in the illinois public labor relations act would essentially uh withdraw the ability uh in collective bargaining agreements to address uh things such as residency and police discipline um and i'm just saying if i'm missing anything um
 So, you know, I guess in theory, you know, with that bill in particular, and just the two other bills out there, we have not seen any specific amendments to any language on there. So we are following closely in working with the Illinois Municipal League
 Leading up sort of negotiations are should say the attempted negotiations on that bill So far there have been none in that as far as I can tell any any attempts to amend things that improve the bill so far for example to to Assistant protection of the virus has not made any amendments yet. There's also been a concern regarding removal of
 QUALIFIED IMMUNITY AS A PROTECTION FOR OFFICERS AND QUALIFIED IMMUNITY AS A PROTECTION FOR OFFICERS AND MUNICIPALITIES. MUNICIPALITIES. THERE'S ALSO BEEN A REMOVAL OF THERE'S ALSO BEEN A REMOVAL OF THE TORT IMMUNITY ACT WHICH IS THE TORT IMMUNITY ACT WHICH IS A CONCERN IN TERMS OF A CONCERN IN TERMS OF MUNICIPAL LIABILITY. MUNICIPAL LIABILITY. TORT IMMUNITY ACT IS THE ACT TORT IMMUNITY ACT IS THE ACT THAT PREVENTS THE CITY OF ROCK THAT PREVENTS THE CITY OF ROCK FROM BEING SUITED IF WE RESPOND FROM BEING SUITED IF WE RESPOND TO A CALL L
 I can tell you what, we do have a real concern that that's going to open the fund gates to future litigation. I spoke to IML this weekend. We're assured by Brad Cole, the executive director, that they are addressing that and attempting to try to negotiate that out. It's important to note for that one, it wouldn't even be for an intentional act of the police department or...
 or a police officer would be for negligence too. So if somebody made a mistake and didn't respond or made a mistake and didn't solve a crime or something like that, we have a high call volume. So if we have to choose between going to call A or call B and somebody's injured and call B,
 because they're now opening us up to liability so um again that's going to come with real problems for us um those are i think the highlights of the criminal reform bill altogether um there's also two other bills addressing economic development and uh health care and services education and some housing as well but again i will do my best to put that all together for you and provide a better analysis of what all passes on monday um i don't know at this point if you
 They still are in the process of subject matter hearings on those bills and have not yet taken a vote on anything. But they're also in pretty constant contact over the weekend with Mike Cassidy, our lobbyist, on what the developments have been. Yeah, I'm at...
 To director Meyer, not necessarily on the policing, but they have about 30 hours left of session. It all has to be approved by 1159 on Wednesday is my understanding. Yeah.
 One item that has me concerned, not in the policing act, but I believe it's in the economic development pillar, is lead service line replacements. As you know, Alderman, when Kyle Saunders was heading up the water utility and now with Jamie Rhodes heading up the water utility, our team has really done a pretty unbelievable job to keep our rates at the same level.
 At the middle of all of our comparable cities, while also. Replacing much needed lines and replacing red lines led service lines and lead water mains. This act puts a.
 But the minimum that we have to get 5% of all lead service lines done every single year. What it doesn't account for is the lead service or the maintenance that also needs to be replaced.
 Just so you understand, we've been able to do about $8 million worth of lead service lines in the last two years. This act says that we have to do 5% each year. That would cost us approximately $9.5 million additional to...
 Our citizens, and as you know, it's an enterprise fund, so great payers pay it. We believe that it's going to cost an average residential citizen between $130 and $155 additional each year or $10 to $15 additional per month.
 INCREASES IN THE FUND. AND THAT'S NOT A FUND THAT AND THAT'S NOT A FUND THAT CREATES A FUND THAT DOESN'T CREATES A FUND THAT DOESN'T ACCOUNT FOR ANY ANNUAL INCREASES ACCOUNT FOR ANY ANNUAL INCREASES WHICH WE HAVE ALWAYS DONE, A WHICH WE HAVE ALWAYS DONE, A 2 OR 3% INCREASE. 2 OR 3% INCREASE. THAT ALSO DOESN'T ACCOUNT FOR THE THAT ALSO DOESN'T ACCOUNT FOR THE FUND THAT THEY CREATED.
 And then true Springfield form, they created a fee that the fee, which is undetermined, it's going to be determined by a board that is yet to be created. And the board will have a makeup of less than 37% of rate payers. So only 37% of the people on this board will actually be paying the actual fees that they're going to charge. So they're going to determine a fee.
 then all of the, every municipality's fee collectively goes down to springfield because they do so much work on this. They're going to take 25% of it administratively.
 And then they're going to divvy it up to municipalities based on those municipalities who have the greatest number of lead service lines. Well, funny enough, although Chicago only has 20% of our state's population, they have 55% of all of our lead service lines that need to be removed. So 55% of the money is going to go right out the door, right back to Chicago. So we are not, this is kind of.
 we're not opposed to replacing the lead service it must be done we've actually been a leader in the state uh in this uh under director saunders and now under jamie roth that's one of these things like the devil's in the details we have to uh and i will say our local delegation has been on this they know about our concerns or uh lobbyists have but i just want all of you to be aware because i know how cognizant and how sensitive we all are about increasing um
 Water rates, we've worked really hard to keep them at that median level. And this would cost us about 220M dollars over the next 20 years. So it's significant with very little help from. So, sorry, Mr Meyer, if I went on too long, but any other questions. Alderman beach very much, sir.
 Thank you. Alderman Quinonez, any officers report? Yes, Your Honor. I want to thank Kyle Sanders and yourself, Your Honor, for answering the questions the citizens have in the 11th Ward about the garbage pickup. There's a major problem down there, and I hope we get it settled here before the week's out. But that's it. Thank you. Absolutely. It really is. The alley pickup is a significant issue. So thank you. Alderman Hanlon?
 Yep, I kind of got the same. So I wanted to thank Kyle Saunders as well. He's been very, very helpful with me this week and,
 Always really. So, Kyle, you've been great. Thank you. And yes, the alley pickups has been the bane of my existence. I hope that it does get settled. I also hope to be included on any further meetings by city staff. I was not included on this last 1 for some reason. So, if whoever kind of was in charge of that could include me, please on the next 1, I would really appreciate it.
 Alderman Hanley, just so I understand, when you say meeting city council, you weren't on it? No, sorry. The meeting, the Zoom meeting between Rock River Disposal and city staff and Alderman Tunberg and Logoman, I believe I was not included. So if there are any in the future, I would like to be included, please. Absolutely. Sorry about that. Thank you. Alderman McNeely?
 I'd like to be included as well on any zoom meeting regarding the alleys, but I want to thank my constituents for the most part. They've been very good at moving the garbage from the alley to the front to the side. There are some that. That the city need to to check with. Because this would be the 2nd week where it's probably enough in the back by the alley.
 And Mayor, I certainly want to send condolences to the individuals in DC that lost their lives to their families. I'd like to send the condolences. What we wouldn't have said scared me. I don't know if any if it scared any of my fellow aldermen because no one has said anything under officers reports, but it scared me. I if you know your history, please.
 What happened last week was shocking. And I do hope that those that are involved, that they be given...
 what the law requires regarding what their actions were. And I want to say that I stand with Nancy Pelosi and the other Democrats that are pushing to make sure that everyone's held accountable, including the president. And I just hope that...
 What has happened and what has happened all last year will cause us to take pause and address things, certain of us, to address things a little differently because there are issues out there that we need to address. We can't put them under the rug. We can't generalize them. We need to address them. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman McNeely. Is there a motion to adjourn?
 So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Alderman Thunberg, did you have anything to discuss? No? OK. I'm not seeing that motion. All those in favor, say aye. Or I'm sorry, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Hoegeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Jackson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman.
 aye thank you other than rose aye he knows all right i 13 good night everybody night