Good evening and welcome to the City Council, the City Council meeting in the City of Rockford, Illinois. The date is January 20th, 2015. Our invocation this evening will be from Farm Police Chaplain L.Z. Marks from Ebenezer Baptist Church. Good evening Mayor, Council. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, once again we call on your precious name first of all, Lord, to say thank you. Thank you, Lord, that you gave us the strength and the will to be here this evening. We pray, Lord, for your direction.
 as the mayor and the council go forth to make the decision of this city. We pray, Lord, for your wisdom and your guidance and your direction. We realize, Lord, we can do nothing without you, but with you all things as possible. And, Lord, we just say thank you. We ask all of this in your son Jesus' name we do pray. Amen. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Getschis. McNamara. Hervey. Dixon.
 Hill Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Beach Beck Cirelli Eleven, President Garner Thank you very much Thank you, we do have a quorum As we start tonight, I just wanted to make One initial technical announcement So starting this evening
 If you go to the city's website, Mr. Trommels, if I screw this up, please correct me, but our meetings are being streamed live on our website in addition to being available on Comcast. There should be a link directly on the city's homepage right up front that links to our agenda as well as to the
 We're just getting it started so if there's technical problems we will work to make sure we get them addressed. The nice thing is folks should be able to follow along and you can actually go and find archived meetings that will connect the agenda to the point in the meeting where the video clip could be found as an archival matter.
 so we're excited about that and this is of course uh as we continue our structure of changes from our old business process to our new business process as we know tonight was only our council meeting last week was our committee meetings mr hayes is working on some
 ways to streamline our agenda in other words if you look at the city that's been doing this for some time like naperville they've streamlined just the number of sections and the different elements of their agenda i think we'll have the ability to do that as we sometimes refer to that as consent agenda items but if you've got input or thoughts on that please work with mr hayes i've asked him
 up with some options for us we have to do an ordinance change to fully reflect those opportunities for string lining so with that I move to our journal proceedings and ask for a motion to approve the journal there's been a motion and a second to approve the journal are there any amendments or changes Mr. Hayes did I see one recommendation on
 Your Honor, there's a change for unfinished business. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. So hearing no changes at this time to the journal proceedings, all those in favor please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Journal is approved. We have no public hearing scheduled for this evening. We have several speakers sign up for public participation.
 I want to remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. If they start to go over a little, hear my buzzer go off, and I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker is Travis Sockwell. I want to thank you all for your time.
 Around two and a half hundred years ago, our founding forefathers drafted a document more incredible than this world has ever seen. It was known as the Constitution of the United States of America. According to Dr. Alan Greenspan, it is our strict adherence to the principles of individual freedoms and liberties and property rights that have made this the richest nation in the history of the world.
 One of the liberties clearly defined by the Constitution and very clearly redefined by the Supreme Court is the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment, that Congress shall pass no laws prohibiting the free exercise of religion. I was flabbergasted to hear the State Fire Marshals came to Rockford and imposed rules and inconceivable zoning permit costs inhibiting their ability to help the homeless.
 Helping the less fortunate is a sacred religious ideal held by Judeo-Christian and Muslims alike. I won't waste your time by reciting quite literally hundreds of verses from religious books by these religions. I also don't have to tell you that helping somebody the less fortunate produces oxytocin in the brain, which promotes altruism and compassion. When I started to investigate the matter involving the fire marshal, I called him.
 He may or may not have implicated certain parties which may or may not be present today. Council members, this is my time too. If Fire Marshal rolled for me, what will he do before a judge when I start moving this through courts? If this goes where I intend, I won't get a verdict until around 17.
 That's 2017. In order to keep the onus on the fire marshal, I need you to write a letter to the Apostolic Pentecostal Church and the Rockford Rescue Mission, letting them know that you support their actions, regardless of what's said by the fire marshal, because it's the humane thing to do and you're obligated by the Constitution. Council members, our cameras and public presence, whether I'm right or wrong legally, failure to act on this would be political suicide. The state pays county jails per head per day.
 Somehow funds are mismatched to the point of not being able to clean prisoners' undershorts or pants. This is a first-hand experience. This is contributing to the spread of MRSA in Winnebago County, a skin condition causing open sores with discharges of pus, and it is very contagious. I see one of two solutions. Either we can fight to increase funding for the Winnebago County Jail, or we can make less criminals. Ordinance had been put in place to make it illegal for there to be more than 81 homeless men at a time in Winnebago County Jail.
 If churches and homeless shelters are willing to come together and use link programs, we can get the cost down to about $7 a day per homeless person per head. Why should Illinois taxpayers have to pay $105 a day to house them in jails? It doesn't make sense legally, financially, or politically to pursue this policy of making homelessness a crime. Thank you guys for your time. Thank you. Our next speaker is Dr. David S. Hale. Hi, Dr. Hale.
 It's John Bradley. Checking over my own briefcase. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the men, all the women, and the citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. Got some good news, good news, good news, and got a little slight bad news. To the public work department, over at Fairgrounds, right down School Street, where the Lewis, the lease, the lease, the clearance is at, they need a bus stop.
 sign there. The reason being, the reason why we need the bus stop sign there, we've been asking for it for the past five years. Every time we look around, we get new people in RHA management that don't follow it up, and all the persons haven't been able to follow it up. The reason why we need the bus stop sign there, we have a lot of beautiful young ladies that stand on there and be catching the bus, but we have cars to drive up and be blowing at them.
 thinking that they out there soliciting. So when the cops go by and they blowing up and thinking they soliciting, when the police come by, they thinking the same thing. This is causing a problem where they feel that, you know, they being, you know, harassed and all they doing is standing up there catching the bus. This needs to be addressed. Now the good news. The good news is that on Thursday we had a meeting with, in my building, I had over 92 individuals there. Out of the 92 individuals,
 sixty eight of them was young men we had rock valley college we had the work place we had woodwork governor and we had rock river training there and we were talking about jobs these people came there looking for work coming up next month i'm challenging the uh chicago i mean not chicago roxford police department the roxford fire department to have their recruiters
 there at North Main Manor on February the 19th at 2 o'clock and whatever. I'm going to the Hinge so we can make sure that we have them there because I'm going to bring the rain. Bringing the rain is bringing the people. On Saturday, we went to Rock Valley College on a tour where they fed us. They had pizza and pop. And then we watched the girls' basketball game. By the way, Rockford Junior College ranked number one in the nation, and they won that day. I had 47 youth that I brought there.
 was a historical event. Not only was we at Emmanuel Lutheran School, but we went to
 historically Woodward governor opened the door to us and after 28 we had 52 people that signed up but we I took 28 of our young people there to Woodward governor guess what today six of them was able to sign up where they gonna do a follow-up with these youth the next thing is coming up we're gonna do a tour at Rockford University we got the YMCA on our list we got
 on our list and I can name a few more that we have on our list. But this year is about education, training, jobs. I'm going to head up, and I'm not going to go along with this, but I'm going to head up with black on black crime and domestic violence. We talk about it, we got people that working in the system that's supposed to be dealing with domestic violence, but they dragging their feet.
 So I'm taking this to the floor. I'm speaking to everybody in here. I'm also speaking to the public to let them know that we're sick and tired of being sick and tired. We've got to deal with this black-on-black crime and domestic violence that's going on in this plague in our neighborhood. And I need your help to work with me so we can work together. And hopefully, Mayor Marcy, I'll end this by saying I hope to see you in Black History Month next month. And you too, my ultimate, Tom McInerney. Thank you, Mayor. February 19th, 2 o'clock.
 Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Next we have Roland Posca. Thank you. I, Roland Posca, am still a fishy whale. It has taken me 36 years to finish my first two books. And now, before I die, I hope I can sell a couple copies. Just remember, we are born and we will die. But in between, we can do some magic and plus do the impossible.
 and how do we get everybody in the world to do the impossible? But don't try to change anything. A waste of time. Because absolutely no one will change their beliefs. They will kill and die for their beliefs. Absolutely no one will change their beliefs. How many here would die for their beliefs? But everyone can have their beliefs added to
 Keep adding things until we don't want to die anymore. And then, according to string theory, we will come back again to be born into a greater great world. Thank you. Our next speaker is Flossie Horton. Good evening to the Honorable Mayor Larry Mosey, Chief of Police, and all who make up this assembly today. I stand here today to speak on behalf of a community that's plagued with violence,
 Young people dying out of season and a sense of hopelessness. If I was preaching a sermon tonight, I would title it, How Did We Get Here? Can we go back to the 1989 People Who Care lawsuit? Why, when a call by God called this city to look at the practice of unfair education perpetrated on children due to the color of their skin, economic and social status. Is that how we got here?
 Did we get here in 2006 when God called for people to repent through this city? A permission was given to do a march calling for every like-minded Christian to come together, repent, and ask God to heal our city. Is that how we got here? Did we get here in 2004, 2014, when four of the magazines at Rockford was the most miserable city in which to live?
 Or did we get here in 2014 when Transforming Rockford came together and said we must work together regardless of race, creed, or color, demographic, because we cannot allow our city to be stigmatized as the worst city to live. I beg you to difference. How did we get here? In John the 15th chapter, Jesus asked Peter a question. He said, Peter, do you love me? Peter said, Jesus, you know I love you. He asked him again.
 Peter, do you love me? Yes, Jesus. Why do you ask me? You know I love you. He asked Peter a third time. Peter, do you love me? Peter became kind of troubled because Jesus had asked him that three times, and each time he gave him the same answer. He said, well, if you love me, feed my sheep. Who's feeding the children with no role model in the home? Who's feeding these young men that walk the street with a hopeless attitude?
 picking up guns, taking innocent lives, babies two and three years old dying, young women dying leaving their children. Who is feeding them? West State Street have a church on every corner but very few programs during the week. Who's feeding them? I asked the question tonight. Do you love Jesus? Do you love him?
 If you love him, you will feed his sheep. Who is his sheep? His sheep are the young boys. African Americans especially don't have fathers and role models. Young women's hopelessness living in the housing complex, miseducated, don't have a sense of direction. And most of all, men from all walks of life that don't know how to respect and treat their wives, we need to feed God's sheep. And he's going to hold us accountable for that. Then we will transform Rockford.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker is Ron Freese. Hello again. I just wanted to say that the snow plowing is exceptional as far as I'm concerned. But they push the snow up on the approach for the driveway of the house. I can't get out there and shovel it anymore. I know that. It's been my problem going through life.
 I can't with my cane I can't even do the sidewalk anymore and that's what I came to talk to you about last time was shoveling the sidewalk and now they're doing this and my car almost got stuck the other day and what people are making payments for we can't even get it out
 The temperature has changed and the snow has melted. I'm driving all the time now. And, as I said before, things have changed. I'm looking through the same eyes, but my life has changed quite radically, to be honest with you. And I'm really upset about that stuff. And I know that these people have to do their plowing and stuff like that.
 But when they're pushing that snow up against your driveway, I can't even get out there anymore to move it. So I don't know what the hell is really going on anymore. I really don't. It's a damn dirty ride and a shame. It really is. Thank you. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening, physicians and communications. Dr. Kuehl. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. One is the
 Memorandum from Todd Cagnone, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the Trust Development Agreement and Inducement Letter with Morgan Management for the Redevelopment of 202 West State Street. This will be referred to Planning and Development.
 We have a memorandum from Mark Williams, the Economic Development Administrator, regarding a request from Hayes Distribution for a three-year property tax abatement at 1819 Elmwood Drive. This also will be referred to Planning and Development. We also have a memorandum from David Sidney, Manager of Comprehensive Planning and Design, regarding a progress report
 for the downtown implementation plan this final item will be also referred to planning and development thank you very much thank you your honor I'm submitting the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on January 21st 2015 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regulations committee meeting on January 26th
 I'm submitting the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on January 21st, 2015 and the meeting minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regulations Committee meeting on January 26th, 2015. I'm submitting the Rockford Traffic Commission minutes from the meeting held on January 14th, 2015 for consideration at the Codes and Regulations Committee on January 26th, 2015.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. We will now call on back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. The first is a memorandum from Seth Summer, Building Code Official, regarding a development agreement for residential demolitions. And then I have a memorandum from Chris Black, Finance Director, regarding establishing a 1 percent auto rental occupational and use tax. Both these items will be referred to Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Madam. Should we refer further petitions and communications, I'll put them back away.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have a program called MoToHome that I'm going to refer to codes and regulations to help reduce the amount of vacant land and maintenance costs that the city is incurring. Thank you, Mayor. I'll be referred for the petitions and communications. Proclamations. We have one proclamation. Yes, that the recipients that are here to accept a proclamation on behalf of Human Trafficking Awareness Month please come forward to accept the proclamation, including Jennifer Ketchapalia and others that are with her organization. Thank you.
 Where is approximately 300,000 children at risk of being prostituted in the United States each year and where is one in three teens on the street will be lured toward prostitution within 48 hours of leaving home. Rockford alone had 1,374 runaways reported in a 15-month period from January 2013 through April 2014.
 Whereas the average age of entry into the coerced prostitution for a child victim in the United States is 13 years old. And whereas traditional pimps can make $150,000 to $200,000 per child each year, and the average pimp has 4 to 6 victims. And whereas the City of Rockford recognizes that this is a national and local issue.
 And whereas the City of Rockford seeks to implement strategies for awareness, education, and bringing those involved in this act to justice. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim January 2015 to be Human Trafficking Awareness Month. We encourage our citizens to support the Rockford Alliance Against Sexual Exploitation and partner with this organization to learn about this issue and combat human trafficking in our
 Thank you, Mayor and City Council, for the proclamation. We wanted to specifically also thank the City of Rockford Police Department, particularly Doug Pan, who's been instrumental in working with us, and also the City Council for passing the recent ordinance calling for stricter penalties for persons using their vehicles in the solicitation of a sexual act.
 RACE's goal is really twofold, to educate the community on the young age of the victims that are being forced into prostitution and also to provide services and outreach to people who are trying to get out of the lifestyle. So we look forward to working with council as we move forward. Please understand, most importantly, this is a local problem. It's a global problem, but it is a local problem. Thank you for your support and we look forward to working with you in the future.
 Thank you for your work and we look forward to our continued efforts together to deal with this terrible, terrible problem. Reports to committees. Excuse me, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have four committee reports. The first one is approving the Rockford Community Partners, formerly known as EDEN, their 2015 budget request and work plan for a total allocation of $340,000 is set forth in a memorandum dated December 23, 2014 from Todd Cagnone, the Director of Community and Economic Development.
 Approve the redevelopment proposal for the southeast quadrant of North Main and Auburn streets between Joseph James Partners and the City of Rockford. Three, approve the Mary's Market Development Agreement with Koch Family for reinvestment and rehabilitation of Mary's Market located at 4343
 43XX, 4431, and 44XX East State Street, which is not to exceed $200,000 in TIF funding. Number four, approve the Servicon LLC 175 Executive Parkway Development Agreement for assistance of community development block grant funding in the amount of $50,000 for a five-year forgivable loan and promissory note for job training.
 And I'd ask the rules be suspended. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on the following planning development committee items. The first is the need to work plan for $340,000. Second is the redevelopment proposal for the southeast quadrant of North Van Auburn Street between Joseph J. and Partners and the City of Rockford.
 Third, the Marys Market Development Agreement, Co-Family for Reinvestment and Rehabilitation of Marys Market located at 4343-43XX and 4431-44XX East 8th Street. That took $200,000 in TIF funding. Finally, the Servicom LLC, a 175 executive parkway development for CDBG funding, the amount of $50,000 for a five-year forgivable loan, promissory note for job training.
 motion second spend those rules those items all those in favor please say aye aye aye those no aye's have the rules be spent thank you your honor then I place those up for approval may I reserve for passage discussion Alderman Hervey just a quick question are we suspending the rules on the majority of items tonight because of the switch to the new format correct so subsequent to this these will
 do we need to change our ordinance so we do I just I used to give us a light on it but the way I understand technically we have not changed our rules or rules from before would require if we're just coming over from many meetings before this be the first reading it technically you know I asked Mr Hayes question this morning is going to work on it but technically we need a suspension when it comes in for first reading before the full council even
 I'm sorry, you know what I was thinking, because I heard them last week, I'm thinking that they were read in last week, but those were committee meetings. So I don't know what the mechanism is, but I would like to change that only because I think rule suspension should be reserved for extraordinary circumstances and I don't want us to do it on an every week basis. So as quickly as we could make that adjustment, I appreciate it. Ms. Chase, do you want to comment on that at all?
 We will undertake those rule changes right away. As you may recall in the debate about the change to the structure, we got to the procedural rules and weren't able to proceed down the line of those but there are a series of procedural rules that we recommend modifying, adopting things like a consent agenda, dealing with the mechanism to take things out of that
 and dealing with the reality of that heavy other week city council meeting so that we we move things expeditiously but don't overrun an alderman's opportunity to explore matters make sure it's fully understood before we adapt things and just for the record Alderman Beach and I when we were looking at the electronic agenda worked with the city council and the
 Julia Valdez quite a bit to come up with some of those suggestions I think I did I believe I emailed it to council members are passed it out if I didn't I will but it gives sort of a grouping of how that could be done so and I will email it to you all I think I have it somewhere thanks for the discussion thank you Mary I just want to urge my fellow councilmembers
 And I guess I would urge, I'd ask for your support for the Roundabout development. I think the developer has put together a creative proposal that will help foster a sense of community in that area. I think it'll be an economic driver. It also is unique because it gives the neighborhood many aspects of their wish list that they've wanted for years. A bank, a financial institution, as well as making it much more pedestrian friendly with the market.
 The businesses in the area have been very outspoken to myself that they are all in favor of this proposal and I really appreciate your support and urge you to support that proposal. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Mary Nutt, click, please, for the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getschus? Aye. McNamara? Abstain on 5A1, aye on the remainder. Kirby? Hill? Thompson-Kelley?
 Newberg, Shirely, Roman numeral 5A1, 7 ayes, 2 no, 1 abstain, the remainder 10 ayes, 0 no. Matters passed, thank you. Further committee reports? Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5, new committee reports.
 Is it B-1, approve the final plat IFF subdivision at 17-0 West State Street? West State Street? I move to suspend the rules on that item, Your Honor. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on the final plat IFF subdivision, 17-0 West State Street. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, 7. I move to place that up for passage, Your Honor. That is up for passage. That is their discussion.
 hearing none I believe you take a voice vote on this item which is my I apologize I could take it as it's a plan we just take a voice voter clerk please call the roll Durkee I got just I McNamara I Kirby Hill Thompson Kelly I Odo
 Newberg back surely I tonight's room passes thank you thank you and the finance personnel report you're up thank your honor I have three items I'm sorry four items first to approve the city guarantee of the 2015 rocker mass transit district 1.5 million dollar line of credit with JT Morgan Chase Bank
 Second, it is approved the vouchers for the week of January 12, 2015 in the amount of $1,750,868.20.
 Third is to approve the US EPA revolving loan fund agreements between the city of Rockford and the South Main Shopping Center for environmental cleanup work at the Rockford Watch Factory addition for asbestos removal. And number four is to approve the 2015 to 2019 capital improvement plan. I'm going to hold that one first. I know there's going to be a motion to amend, so I'm going to ask for suspension rules on the first three items.
 Thank you. There's been a motion to spend the following three items from the Finance and Personnel Committee. The first is the guarantee of the 2015 Rockford Minister Transit District $1.5 million line of credit with J.B. Morgan's or in Chase. Next, the vouchers in the amount of $1,750,000, $68.20. Next, the revolving fund and U.S. EPA agreements between the city and South Lane Shopping Center. Clean up work with Rockford Watch Factory, admission for the U.S. Best District Board.
 There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on those three items. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes 7. Thank you. I'll slide those items up for passage. Those items are for passage as they are in discussion. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschus. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Hill. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Beck. Aye on number one and two. Abstain on number three. Shwelle. Aye.
 Roman numeral 5 C 3 9 eyes 1 up staying the remainder 10 eyes you know thank you better pass and then item number 4 question point of order would we want to suspend rules first or would I should I wait for the amendment and then
 suspend rules on the amended item or whether it remains the original item if the amendment fails I think we need to suspension the rules first because otherwise It would just lay over it It would just lay over it and use that accurate Yes sir Alright then I would ask for suspension of rules on that item So motion second suspend the rules on the 2015-2019 capital improvement plan Moved it's been moved and seconded all those in favor of suspending the rules please say aye Aye Opposed no
 I just have to be spending that I would place it up for passage that is up for passage is there discussion Thank you, man I uh, I moved to amend the committee report under unfinished business Number five I see fours to reflect the following terms The city engineer shall report savings from budgeted estimates on our material and collector streets
 of $300,000 in annual savings shall be allocated in equal amounts to the three wards with the worst PCI ratings on the
 And for those at home, that's pavement condition index ratings, each receiving an even distribution of up to $100,000 to be included in the final bid on neighborhood streets, typically in August of each year. This amendment shall be included in the present life of the CIP through 2019. Staff shall analyze and report the pavement condition index ranking annually. I place this item up for passage.
 Thank you. Is there a second? Second. There's been a motion and a second to do the following. Amend the committee report, Roman numeral 5, item C, 4, to reflect that the City Engineer would report savings from budgeted items, budgeted estimates on our material and collector streets that up to $300,000 in annual savings would be allocated in equal amounts to those reports with worst PCI ratings.
 each receiving an even distribution of up to 100 000 dollars to be included in the final bid on neighborhood streets to early august of each year and the amendment will be included in the cip through 2019 with staff analyzing reporting the pci rankings annually mayor just to correct two things and uh
 The second bullet point, it's going to be a minimum of $300,000 into the three wards, not those wards. A minimum of $300,000? Yes, sir. And then if you keep going through that sentence, it says equal amounts to those. The word those should be to the three. We want the three worst wards to get more money. So was the $100,000 identified? Say that line again, the whole second part of it.
 Yes, so it should be minimum of 300,000 in annual savings shall be allocated in equal amounts to the three wards with the worst PCI ratings. Period. I'm sorry, each I can keep going. Everything else is accurate. Thank you, so I'll read that again. I guess actually now I see your point of having me read the whole thing. The wards up to, prior to 100,000 should be taken out.
 I'm going to read the whole thing. Yeah, sorry, thank you. A minimum of $300,000 in annual savings shall be allocated in equal amounts to the three wards with the worst PCI ratings, each receiving an equal distribution, to be included in the final bid on neighborhood streets, typically in August of each year. Is there an additional discussion? By the way, whoever seconded, did they agree with that motion?
 And then just a real quick honor for those who are watching at home. We'd like to thank Alderman McNamara for putting together what I think is a very good amendment. What he said is there's always been a desire to put more money in the neighborhood streets, but we have a very aggressive capital improvement plan that goes out and tackles the streets we drive on every day, every citizen. And so Alderman McNamara realized, hey, usually our city staff does an amazing job and saves money on their bids every year.
 What this is doing is taking that money, that cost savings that we get, and putting it back into the neighborhood streets. So it's a way of, I think, getting more money to our neighborhood streets without impacting what I think is a very strong and forward-looking capital improvement. I just have a question I would ask of the proponents of the motion. What if there's only $200,000 in savings? We can divide that equally. I think the main goal is that we
 whatever savings that we can find and I think we typically do see pretty excessive savings and this number is based off some historical references but if it is lower I would just ask that I don't want to take anything away I think the whole goal is to make sure that those wards the three wards that have the worst PCI rating get some increased percentage of money
 My final comment would be that if you want to say that any savings are redistributed into the neighborhood program,
 the more than the worst three PCI ratings even need to say the amount because if you're willing to do it for 100, if it's under 300,000 but you still want to do it, you certainly can do it. But this language of minimum of 300,000 dollars would to me suggest that if it's under 200, we've got to add another 100 each August. And I don't know that that's what the intention was. That's just my reading on it. Well, the other side, I think, of what you just said, though, if for some reason,
 You know, we had $5 million allocated for a particular street and it didn't get done. I don't think we're saying that we want $5,300,000 to go to the three wards. I think what we're saying is that $300,000, so that minimum, but not necessarily every bit of savings in excess. I think the other intent, correct me if I'm wrong, is to make sure that our public work
 If we did save $5 million, if they decided we can do another arterial or collector or very bad stretch of road that has heavy use, they would not be prohibited from doing that. So, you know, based on what I'm hearing, and again, I don't want to put words in the proponent's mouth, but that original language would cover up to $300,000. And we may want to say that any savings above that shall be discussed, brought to the council for further discussion. Just throwing it out there. Yes, thank you.
 not the input of the whole council. I don't want to force something down someone's throat with that. I just want to make sure that those wards are getting more money. I guess I am a little confused at this point. But is the intent, let's say we save a million or we go over the $300,000 and we save up to a million. Are we capping it at $300,000 or are we saving any savings no matter how much will go to those three wards?
 I wanted a minimum of 300,000 because there's a lot of different discussions I've had with various council members. Why don't we divide it between six? Why don't we divide it between eight? You start to have no impact. So I wanted to divide it by three and I figured 100,000 each, you actually start to have something meaningful to utilize. I guess I'd like to keep it as a minimum of 300,000.
 That way we at least get $100,000. Is that also a maximum of $300,000? I would say yes. Anything above and beyond that we could ask the Mayor. Up to $300,000 would be accurate. If you're saying a minimum of $300,000, that means more. If we were to say more, to me that's a, more would go toward those three boards. I would say, to me, the accurate way to say it would be up to $300,000.
 And then if we have savings beyond that, like you said, Public Works can do what they think best with that money. Thank you, Mayor. I also have, I'm thinking that up to $300 in actual savings so that what we are looking at is $300,000 to be divided between the worst three wards in the city. When you say minimum, that means...
 there's more money, if there's more money it's going to be put to the ward. And I, that is not what I perceived. I perceived it was, if we, if we, a figure, if we have a million dollar, or five million, this amount, three hundred thousand, will always be put to the worst, will be allotted to the worst three wards to put into their neighborhood. And that I could support. I would say
 Sorry, Mayor, can I speak? Certainly. Sorry. Sorry. I understand where you're coming from. Why don't we utilize up to and also utilize the Mayor's language and say that anything above and beyond will come back to City Council. Yeah. Is that fair? So if you want to take that as a friendly amendment. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 so very confused the components of the motion of accepted friendly amendment so that would second bullet point would read out of the fight for a commercial right that was three hundred thousand dollars in annual savings shall be allocated equal amounts to the three awards of course these are ratings each receiving an equal even distribution
 to be included in the final bid on the neighborhood streets typically August and anything above that amount shall be referred back to city council for further discussion and its incorporation into the capital improvement plan thank you any more discussion then with that friendly amendment being accepted hearing none all those in favor of the amendment please signify by saying aye aye as have been thank you so the amended four of the amendments are in
 rolling roll 5 C's. Any further discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getzis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hill? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beck? Aye. Shirley? Aye. Chennais-Rudy? Thank you very much. Madam passes. Further report committees, officers reports. Thank you. A few items to report on this evening.
 First, we have the president will give the State of the Union address tonight at 8 o'clock. With any luck, we'll hopefully have a chance to be in our homes watching. I mention it because two of the items that I believe he may comment on tonight are ones that we've been discussing quite a bit in our community. One is a college for all program, or community college funding program that has been discussed recently. It's reflective of a little bit of what we've been talking about with the Lincoln Promise Zone.
 I expect by the end of this month to have a referral memo ready to go for our Lincoln Promise Zone board members. There was a couple more spots that I've been...
 extending invitations to local folks. There's a couple more spots that haven't quite got filled, so if there's additional recommendations, now is the time to please let me know before I get that referral memo out, which should be, like I said, done around the end of this month. The second thing that I received, actually, a notice this week from Lynette McCray, who's part of our Strong Cities team, that the president may make reference to this network of maker cities.
 manufacturing cities across the country and maker communities. They asked us as one of the communities that
 participated last June in the first ever White House Maker Faire to submit some materials. I think Mark Williams, we had a very short turnaround time, Mark worked with a number of our local partners and put some material together for submission. So I don't think we'll get specifically mentioned, but there will be some accompanying materials with the State of the Union address online that we may be able to get some points for references to the City of Rockford. We'll tune in to see.
 Next, I want to mention that the International Economic Development Council meeting is being held January 25th, starting this Sunday. I was invited to participate and give some
 presentation on a panel which I'm excited to do about micro-entrepreneurship. Some of the work that we've been doing with Rockford Housing Authority will be featured and appreciate Ron Kluwer being here and being a leader really in helping us to develop opportunities for entrepreneurship as a pathway out of poverty and that's one of the topics that will be discussed.
 I want to just thank again Glenn Trammels and Pat Hayes and the council for supporting the move to our e-agenda system. We will continue to get the kinks worked out and make sure our procedural amendments reflect the opportunity we have for making the meeting easier to follow from a community standpoint. I think the agenda, as you can tell, we're going to try to follow. And I think it'll make it easier for folks at home to follow as well as for ourselves to refer to
 as meetings are archived. As we get this fully moved forward, all of the accompanying documents we'll hopefully have attached to that e-agenda so it's something that we can follow as well as community members watching from home and following up from home.
 This Thursday at 1 p.m. at the Discovery Center, there will be a second meeting of the My Brother's Keeper Initiative. One of the areas of focus will be on responding, the community responding to the challenges of violent crime. And in particular, I want to thank a number of members of our SC2 team, our local participants, for putting together that agenda. We had a few contributions from...
 clergy members in our community as well who are asking how they can fully participate to help address very troubling issues like violent crime and specifically domestic violence. This Thursday 6 p.m. is the Chamber of Commerce annual dinner at Giovanni's. I look forward to attending that event as well.
 Finally, there's a memorandum referring three Human Services Board appointments for approval. These will lay over pursuant to council rule for 30 days. I'd ask if you have questions on these referrals to please feel free to follow up with myself or George Davis. The three recommendations come to fill. Two of them are for government sector appointments and the other one is for a client sector appointment.
 And I want to thank all of the participants and all of the sponsors for a number of MLK events that occurred over the last week. I had a chance to attend some of those events with some of our council members. I appreciate seeing you there. Yesterday, they were rocking it at...
 Immanuel Luther Church, which was an outstanding event. I couldn't stay for the entire event, but it was really an outstanding opportunity to celebrate Martin Luther King and his legacy in our community. And I appreciated all the diverse members of our community that were able to participate. Further officers' reports? All in the Times at Calhoun.
 I want to echo that as well. First of all, I have to thank the Rockford Minister's Fellowship for them organizing these events for the last two days. I know I was totally exhausted after going to all of them for two days.
 but it was wonderful to sit back and look at the diversity in this community and everyone pulling together for the same common reason there's no reason why we can't do that throughout in all of our decisions if we include the diversity and the need in this community so
 wonderful and very pleasing to see that happening with the clergy and some of the businesses of this community so I want to thank you again for and I want to thank the city staff for supporting these events throughout the city thank you for their office reports on the show thank you your honor last week I had the great privilege of attending and being
 the Lino's restaurant they received a delicious destination award from the Illinois office of tourism and I just want to congratulate the Batista family they are a great asset to this city with Lino's restaurant and I hope for them 40 more years of great service and family and fun and great food thank you thank you very much thank your honor typically
 wear both my hats when I'm presenting under officer's reports. But Frank Beach was supposed to give a report, and he had to leave, so I'm going to go ahead and jump in and keep him in the...
 Say what they want to say about me. Anyway. So we had the Illinois snow sculpting competition here in Rockford this past week and it's the fact that I have the privilege of being able to work on and to lead on behalf of the Rockford Park District and just want to put a big thank you out to the community, to all the partners
 who work with the Park District to help make this happen. It's a monumental effort to get these 10-foot tall snow blocks built. And we had the airport that was shoveling up snow in 9-degree below weather and blizzard conditions a week ago Thursday. And then William Charles with their trucks hauling it to the park. And then all the...
 other companies that help us with equipment such as cranes and end loaders and of course the park district staff who get out there and dump the snow into these blocks and then climb in and stamp it down and climb back out and it's really a grueling day of work but just to see the outcome just really makes you feel pretty proud to be a part of it.
 The blocks were being carved last week and everybody was making a lot of good progress and then of course towards the weekend the warmer temperatures started to come but they were able to get them all done by 10 o'clock Saturday morning which was the deadline and the judging occurred and shortly after that they all started to fall down because they
 We still have about 35,000 people came through Sinissippi Park on Saturday, well starting on Wednesday watching it happen and through the end of the weekend before they were gone by yesterday morning. So it's a great event for the Rockford community and brings a lot of excitement. And if you saw how many people were in the park over the weekend, not just the cars but the people walking and really enjoying the nice weather that was melting the sculptures.
 it's a it's one of those things that you like the warm weather to get the people out but it's not very good for the sculptures but I'm just wanted to just kind of acknowledge that all the people that made that happen and thank the community for the support thank you very much thank you it's great event ultimate time to kill it thank you we just better be glad he's not selling tickets could I go back to petitions and communications please I'm
 I'd like to refer to the Legislative and Lobbying Committee for a meeting and a discussion on the 2015 Lobbying Contract and Services. Thank you. And is that at our next committee? So next week? Yes. All right, thank you. Thank you. That'll be referred. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Finished business? No wonder. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items that under Roman numeral 7, 8, 1, and 2 that I would like to hold out until the next council meeting. Thank you. As we help for their finished business, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor.
 under unfinished business committee reports b one proving the liquor and tobacco advisory board recommendation to deny the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the grocery store in the name of Pedro Silva doing business as one the one the Rockford court and a C three general commercial zoning district at five nineteen Marcus on the drive it's not
 number two liquor and tobacco advisory board recommending to approve the sale of liquor by the tree in conjunction with the restaurant in the name of chin-chang a song doing business at sisters Thai cafe any C three general commercial zoning district at 7801 East 8th Street subject to conditions
 Number three is approval of the liquor tobacco advisory board recommendation to approve the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store on the name of max convenience stores llc doing business as circle k fourteen thirty seven and a c one limited zoning office zoning district at twenty two twenty five west riverside boulevard subject to conditions.
 4. Approval of the Liquor & Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation to approve the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the name of Max Convenience Stores, LLC doing business as Circle K, 1425 in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 3819 Broadway, subject to conditions. 5. Approval of the Liquor & Tobacco
 of the zoning board of appeals recommendation to approve the special use permit for a 10 foot power extension and an existing 70 foot ATC tower for an overall height of 80 feet the seat to limited commercial zoning district at 64 49 East State Street subject to conditions number six is the approval of the zoning board of appeals recommendation to approve a special use permit to allow a special use permit
 to allow an electric fence that is not an approved material in a light industrial zoning district at 401 Harrison Avenue. Approval is based on the findings of facts. Number seven, approve the zoning board of appeals recommendation to approve a special use permit to allow an electric fence that is not approved material in a light industrial zoning district at 5456 Sandy Hollow Road.
 Number eight is the zoning Board of Appeals recommendation to approve a special use permit to allow an electric fence that is not an approved material and the general industrial zoning district at 208 Quaker Road.
 Number nine is approve the zoning board of appeals recommendation to approve the variation to reduce the parking drive aisle width from 24 feet to 22 feet and a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 210 North Main Street. Place those items up for process, your honor. Thank you. I now accept the passage under unfinished business. Co-regulation committee, roll number seven, B, numbers one, two, three, four, five, six,
 all those matters are for passage as their discussion. Thank you, Your Honor. A couple of items. With regard to number five, this is for the 10-foot tower extension on an existing 70-foot tower. And I guess my point is that with that is, I thought we just reduced a number of them where they requested very tall towers. I believe they were 80 feet. And we reduced some of them down to, can't remember if it was 50 or 60.
 So I'm not understanding the zoning board even giving approval for an 80-foot tower in the 6400 block of East State Street. That's for number five. Then with regard to the electric fences, I understand that, you know, a new company has come in and they're trying to comply even though the prior company that put these up didn't comply.
 I still believe that electric fences in this day and age with the amount of poverty and people walking that we have, even in industrial areas. I can't speak for the other areas, but along Quaker and Harrison.
 We have several recycling centers and I can tell you that a number of people walk through those areas and I'm just very nervous with us allowing electric fences. I've touched one before and not knowing it, we're out in farm country and I know people think oh, well who's going to be walking there? I wasn't snitching corn or tomatoes or anything but we were just walking along and you just run your hand along the fence and it hurts.
 I just think it's bad policy to start allowing those within our city limits even if they're in industrial areas. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Getschus. Yes, Your Honor, thank you. I just want to echo what Alderman Herby is saying about the electric fences. There's one part of this that really does disturb because this company bought a lot
 The company that had put them up illegally. Our ordinance does not allow these fences to be up. The company found out they had a compliance problem with our ordinance. Had they sent us a letter, had they notified us, had they said, hey, look, we bought this company and we think we have a compliance problem, we're working toward resolution, I might vote for this. But they said, we're going to take these as they come up.
 We're going to let the cities or the company that we just bought go out and find it. So had our fire department and police department not been out there, notified our public works staff, had our inspectors out there, so taking city resources, city time to enforce a city ordinance, we wouldn't be voting on this right now.
 That is not the right attitude if you're doing business in the city of Rockford. We work very hard on our ordinances. We make sure our ordinances are there to protect the health and safety of our public. And if you're not going to respect those ordinances, don't do business in my city. I ask you to vote no for six, seven, and eight. Thank you for the discussion. Paula Neuwert. Thank you, Mayor. On, in reference to the fences,
 I was on codes and regs. These three companies, this is not an electric fence that I could walk up to. I also have touched an electric fence once you've done it. You stay away from all fences like that, trust me. But this is a fence within a fence. It is not a fence where little Mary and her dog that are walking along with mom and Mary goes over and touches the fence. You've gotta go over a six-foot fence.
 to get to the electric fence. So it's not a case of where you're just walking along the street and you're going to touch a fence and, wow, it's electric. The other thing is I think this company has shown, and we, the company that purchased the company that put the fence up is the problem and not the three other companies.
 businesses that have these fences that have been using them from day one, from when they were put up. And I do not feel we should, these businesses are businesses that in the past have been a victim of burglaries. Since these fences have been there, their burglary rate has gone down and I am for these fences. Thank you.
 thank you for the discussion all true yeah I think all the minute curvy question about number five hasn't been answered yet so I was trying to like did you appreciate what I was going on with the dress that question yes I can't thank your honor when staff reviewed
 We understood the applicant's request was to allow for co-location and understanding that we were going to be able to maximize the existing tower. We felt it was appropriate to support the request, and ultimately I believe the zoning board of appeals concurred with that. So what they are consolidating then out of this? Yes, in regards to that this would allow them to have an additional provider on the same tower.
 they're collocating another cell provider on a visiting town, but they're not eliminating another location when the other provider have the right to put their own separate tower up. They would have the opportunity to pursue it under our regulations and they would need to find a site that was suitable, whether they could or not. Yet to be, thank you.
 Your Honor, is there any way we can lay over 6, 7, and 8? What I'd like to see is 8 pictures of the property. What I'd like to see is what their crime rate was with burglaries prior to these fences being in and what it is after it being in. So I'd like to see exactly what this all looks like and how far back and that it's not interfering with anybody's safety. You can certainly move to lay it over. Thank you.
 yes I would so is there a second hearing no second the motion would fail any further discussion hearing none clerk please call the roll 5 6 7 8 no on 5 6 7 8 odo no on 6 7 and 8 I am the remainder Newberg aye beck surely ok Roman numeral
 7b 1 9 eyes 1 no roman numeral 7b 5 7 eyes 3 no Roman numeral 7b 6 7 8 9 eyes 1 no 9 no 1 I Except 6 7 8 fail business
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's to approve the extension of the redevelopment tax, Chapter 5, business permits, taxes, and licenses, Article 2, Division 2, sales taxes, Section 548, Code of Ordinances to Adopt Ordinances, Ordinance Repealing Sunset Clause on Taxes on Food, Beverages, Alcoholic Liquors, and Hotel Rooms to Support Redevelopment Fund. I place that up for passage. Thank you all for passage. The number one, number one, C, item 1, for the Finance and Personal Protection,
 And as a propensity to their discussion hearing I think we can just do a voice I'm sorry, but is there discussion? Turkey got just McNamara curvy Hill Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg back. All right, really tonight's runner I'm in Shirely. We'll give them a moment
 No problem are you prepared to discuss the ordinances from 8B sorry yeah 8B feel free to go ahead. Sorry your honor. Just about wait for the quorum we're doing things a little bit differently and this is at the request of staff so that we can track along with our
 a journal once it's prepared the order of business especially for those watching at home so we did the committee work first now we're covering some ordinances that also fall under unfinished business
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under unfinished business ordinances, number three, one, move the adoption of the amendment section 16-263 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances to adopt statutory authority to remove vehicles. And number two is I move the adoption of the amendment section 3-68 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances to enact BASIT training for the liquor license holders. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Passage 8B1 and 2. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, Turkey is called the roll. Durkee? Aye. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hill? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Odo? Aye. Newberg? Beck? Aye. Shirely? Aye. Ten-Eyes room? That is passed. Thank you. And Lowe back. Thank you. I'm...
 I don't see one is to move the adoption of the mutual aid agreement between the city of Rockford on Illinois Public Works mutually network for a total of 500 500 dollars for membership to the network thank you message that I need to see there's a message is there discussion please go turkey I get just like McNamara Kirby Hill Thompson Kelly photo Newberg
 Thank you under the motions and resolutions B1 adopt a special event permit and liquor permit requested by Brian Hules and Prairie Street Brewhouse for Melfest be held on Saturday March 21st 2015 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Prairie Street Brewhouse 200 Prairie Street
 Thank you. Thank you. The regulation resolution of the passage is the Prairie Street Brewer House, Nelma Fest, Saturday, March 21st, 8 p.m. at Prairie Street Brewer House, 200 Prairie Street. The decision is there to discuss. If there's none, all in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Seven, thank you.
 Thank you. Under C, item 1 is adopt the award of bid for the Ingersoll Downtown Sports Complex Building and River Path development to Stenstrom, Rockford, Illinois for the bid of $13,906,000. 2 is adopt the award of bid for the watch factory asbestos abatement to Hussar Abatement of Franklin Park, Illinois in the amount of $84,213.33.
 Three is adopt the bid for commercial vehicle body repair to Modular Powerhouse, Inc., Rockford, Illinois, for an estimated annual spend of $80,000.
 Number four is to adopt the award of Solisource Contract Water Meters to Badger Meter Incorporated of Milwaukee, Wisconsin for an amount not to exceed $200,000. Number five is to adopt the award of Contract Extension for 2015 Lobbying Services Agreement to McGuire Woods of Chicago, Illinois in the amount of $10,000 for the month of January 2015.
 Item 6 is adopt a choice neighborhood implementation grant application authorization to submit jointly with the Rockford Housing Authority for the Ellis Heights neighborhood. And item 7 is adopt the award for no bid contract for 2014 citywide vehicles, 3 Ford Transits, 5 F-250s, 1 F-350, 3 F-450s,
 two F-550s, 13 Ford Explorers, one Ford Escape, four Ford Fusions to Anderson Rock River Ford in the amount of $1,067,656 and I place these up for passage Thank you, up for passage the following resolutions of the Finance and Personnel Committee, the first is for the English Salt and Downtown Sports Complex and River Path Development to Stenstrom for $13,906,000 and that's the
 The first is the award bid for the watch factory asbestos abatement to Hussar abatement. The amount of $84,213.33. Next is the bid for, award a bid for commercial vehicle body repair at a modular powerhouse for $80,000.
 award of a sole source contract for water meters to Badger Meter for a net to exceed cost of $200,000 next is the contract extension for lobbying services for January 2015 the amount of $10,000 next is the authorization to submit jointly with the Rural Housing Authority for Millis Heights neighborhood choice neighborhood implementation grant and finally the
 for the 2014 citywide vehicles I 5 50 s 1 3 53 4 50 s 2 5 50 s 13 4 explorers 1 4 escape 4 4 fusions to the interstate 4 967 thousand six hundred and fifty six dollars thank your
 to amend the resolution under unfinished business Roman numeral eight items C seven to reflect the following the purchase and this is for the.
 Citywide vehicles item number seven here the purchase of four Ford Fusions will be removed from the award The reduction of the total cost will go from one million sixty seven thousand six hundred and fifty six dollars to 992 thousand and eighty dollars, so I would make that a moment. I would move to make that amendment Thank you. There's been a motion second to amend I am seven
 10 C I'm sorry Mr. Hayes I had misnoted that on the crib so it should be Roman numeral 10 I'm sorry I'll Oh I'm sorry Roman numeral 10 Roman numeral 10 C sorry about that To reflect the following the purchase of four Ford Fusions would be removed from the award reducing the total cost from $1,067,656 to $992,080
 the matter has been moved and seconded as an amendment I'm sorry is there discussion all those in favor of that amendment please say aye those no so we'll reflect those changes thank your honor I would then place the item as amended up for passage and then along with the others up for passage is there any discussion on any other thank you your honor
 number six I just want to let my colleagues know that there's a lot of parts to that grant that I like and can appreciate but the one part of the proposal that I cannot accept this evening is the location that they have chosen to date
 In that specific area, Newtown Drive, we are really trying to get that neighborhood, that area stabilized. We are going to be putting in a new police station there. And just to give you a little history, the neighborhood had two murders last year on that street. There's been several...
 burglaries, some gang graffiti going on in that area. So to really help that area, we've been working hard with the police department to help stabilize that area. And it's really important to me as alderman representing those constituents that the priority is stabilization. And I don't feel this proposal of selecting that site will be stabilizing the area. It would cause unrest at this point.
 have to be in opposition to this proposal this evening and I wanted to let my colleagues know that. Thank you for the discussion. Baldwin Harvey. Thank you, Your Honor. I don't know if everyone had a chance to look at the site plan last week and I just wanted to clarify something. I'm not against public housing. I know many people who live in public housing who are decent, good people.
 who had some hardship in their lives. I've had relatives who've lived in subsidized housing when they hit hard times, layoffs, job losses, divorce, becoming a single parent when you least expected it and least needed it. I've been told that I don't like poor people, I don't like disabled people, and I don't like minorities because I oppose some of these things. And the first thing I ask people, where the blank do you live?
 come to my neighborhood and look where I live. I don't dislike people because of their color or because of their economic hardships. What I do want to do is make the quality of life better for people who have those hardships. And I think the worst thing that we can do in any way, shape or form is to concentrate those people. And when I look at these plans
 The size of the buildings, the numbers of units. These are poor people tacked on top of poor people. This type of housing serves people who have what we call no or very low income. They can very, very quickly become the subject of predators who peddle drugs, who peddle prostitution, who prey on children, and who create crime and chaos. That's what I don't want to see.
 I am opposed to the Choice Neighborhood Program for the Ellis Heights neighborhood because I also believe that what it does is to keep poverty concentrated in a part of the city while at the same time spreading it out over a larger area.
 Those of us who live in very low income neighborhoods and incomes where there is an abundance of Section 8 housing, because of our low rents and our low costs over there, know that we tend to have fewer services and more difficulty for residents who live there. When schools have concentrated poverty because the neighborhood is poor,
 Very often people give up on those kids. We've heard it over and over again, the negative effects of poverty on students' achievement. It's as though poverty itself prays. And one of the things that I would like to see us do is to deconcentrate that poverty. But I don't think we have yet come up with the solutions to do it, and I don't think this plan does it. And for that reason, I am voting no, and I ask the rest of my colleagues to support me in that. Thank you. Alderman Thompson, Kelly.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Chiarelli, I understand exactly what you're saying. Welcome to my world. In my issue in standing up and expressing my concerns to this council and in planning our plans, the future plans that this council do, have to include all sections of this community. I do support you in your comments.
 And those are the things that we all should support each other on because what one thing that happens in this community affects this entire community. When I vote, I don't just vote for the seventh ward. I vote for all 14 wards. So I appreciate your comments. I appreciate your concern. I too have had many concerns in regards to this. There is too many unknowns to this plan.
 Do I want improvement? Yes, I do. Is it that the money is put on the table from HUD that's making our community development department and the city look and want to do something for the neighborhood? Unfortunately, yes. We need to look at what we can do with the means in which we have. We have to include these areas into our planning process and acknowledge the need and the services that needs to be provided for the spread of decay in this community.
 If we do nothing, it will continue to grow. So we have to address it. And I'm hoping, I am truly hoping that we can take another look at this full and now that we have our new settings and our 2020 plan and just look how absentee it is for the very problems and the critical areas in this community. Thank you. And I won't be supporting this as well. Thank you. Paul McHill. I listened to my...
 fellow council members in regards to all the different things that are going on in the neighborhoods, but also what they're looking at as far as the future. But in dealing with what I call our people, because everybody in Rockford is our people, how do you tell them that there's money on the table to improve your neighborhood or to improve the place that you're in, but we won't take that? Or there's a possibility that you could be
 put in a new facility but we won't take that money because we're going to wait and hope that somewhere down the road someone else is going to maybe give us some money or we're going to magically come up with two anywhere from ten million dollars to improve on what you have. How do you tell these the same people we call our people how do you tell them that we have money that's right there that could possibly change your lives
 All we're thinking about is, basically, we know the issues that it's caused before, but we don't know for sure that this money is, I mean, basically it's almost like, well, it could be bad, but it could be good. We don't know for sure that, you know, things won't change. It's like buying someone, when you get a new car, kids love new cars, parents love new cars, that's why they go get them, and normally they take care of them. So you don't think that if we put some people in new facilities that they won't take care of them?
 their ideology in regards to things that they have will change. But if you're moving people from one area into a facility that's already old and basically need to be torn down, how often do they take pride in that? I mean, it's hard to sit and look at people on an everyday basis, and that's what I do, and tell them that, nope, we're not going to take this money that we could possibly get to improve the environment that you're living in.
 I'm still trying to figure out what are we going to do? Where is the money going to come from if we're saying no? Thank you for the discussion. I'll have a new word. Thank you, Mayor. Okay, I'm older than all of you people. I remember, does anyone remember the Valerie Percy? That was going to be an awesome place for low-income people to live.
 I've lived in Rockford all my life. I lived here before we had Fairgrounds, Blackhawk, Valerie Percy, all of these areas. We took money from the government and we were going to build great places for low-income people to get a start. The biggest problem I see with that is taking and putting everyone together. Let's build this big complex
 I am against this program because I want to see scattered throughout all of Rockford, and I mean in every one of our 14 wards, I want to see, let's take back the single-dwelling homes. Let's make people responsible for the home they live in. Let's, we are not denying them something better. Sometimes a new apartment in a new complex
 Ain't the way to go. So I cannot support this because again, we are putting, taking people from a bad environment and going to build another new environment, cluster areas, and that's where they're going to go. Sorry. I'll get the folks who haven't spoken yet and then come back. Mr. Arnott, just only one comment. I've read a good portion of the document that's been supplied.
 The troubling aspect that I have with it in the planning point of view is the R-Map was enlisted to foster a regional approach to this housing problem. And I agree that there's a housing problem and I agree that there is this issue. But when you look at the regional map that was used, it is the borders of the City of Rockford. It includes nothing else.
 And I'm a little bit disturbed by that. If you're going to talk regional, then make it regional, and it's not. I'm troubled by that from a philosophical point of view. The other philosophical objection I have is it relies on the faith of the federal government to continue to do what it says it does. And we've all been through, history is a great teacher. And what the federal government says today, they will say differently next week.
 And so reliance on what one housing unit will be this week may be different next week. So from those two philosophical points of view, I can't support this. Caller back, please. Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to speak on this. I want to first say thank you to Ron Kluwer. I think his work and leadership has, at least in me,
 instilled a lot more hope in our housing authority uh here in rockford um i'll be voting no on tonight's uh grant application that's before us but i don't want the conversation to end here i think alderman hill has a good point i think that conversation starts here um and i think i give a lot of kudos to ron our staff and a number of other partners who have
 created the Ellis Heights transformation plan and are executing it and implementing it. I think we need to continue to do so. If you look at the infrastructure improvements that this administration has made over there, it's been tremendous. Also, there are successes of this plan already with the grocery store investment coming in. I think everyone agrees
 something needs to be done with fairgrounds. I mean, it's an outdated facility, it's an outdated philosophical approach to public housing.
 But I think our new approach needs to be something more that provides hope and dignity to the folks that we are there to serve. I don't think putting them in a facility that is highly concentrated, maybe a little bit less concentrated but still very highly concentrated in the numbers of 50, 60, 70 units, no matter where it is in the city, if it's on the far west side or the far east side, I don't think that's an approach that we need to look at.
 I'm not the answer guy, I just think that there needs to be alternative approaches and if it's a different approach or a different policy, but I urge all the council members that we all stay active in this discussion and that we really try to move this ball forward and get at a table together and discuss this because this issue isn't going to go anywhere. It's going to continue to confront us and we've got to do something to help provide those folks with some dignity and hope and I don't think we do that.
 with this one portion of the plan I truly appreciate the vast majority of the plan and I will be there to help execute and vote on their behalf for that thank you thank you I have to echo that especially with regard to and I apologize that I neglected to say
 some of his team for trying to produce something that's better. Someone called me over the weekend and said, I understand your opposition, but what's your plan? What's your idea to move it forward? I have three points that I want to request. Number one, I would like to ask that our legal department in your office with the HUD technical advisor that I think is still here, look for a way
 to get true policy change for the city of Rockford through HUD. I'm not concerned with other cities. I think it's perverse that in order to become a move-to-work state where you can set high standards for people who live in public housing and rearrange your funding so that you can truly move them out of poverty, you basically have to be a bad housing area and fill it up.
 So I would like to sit down with HUD and talk about ways that we can support improvement with relaxation from some of their policies and rules that have proven horrifyingly failed horrifying failures in the past. Chicago was able to.
 destroy some of the worst public housing in the country and move to true mixed income housing and set high standards for people because Chicago controls its housing authority. It's not under an independent board and I think we need to look at an amalgamation of all of those things. How public housing in Rockford is structured,
 how public housing in Rockford is directed in terms of policy and how it's managed at the grassroots level. Thank you. Thank you. Let me just make a couple of points of information. These issues, assuming a vote gets voted down tonight on the choice application, if you can recall last week when it was being discussed as a committee item,
 this thing of the red kept coming up this demonstration project so fairgrounds has been awarded just under 200 of these vouchers that are part of this demonstration project i can't remember the exact terms so this will likely come back up that was the thing mr kluwer was saying if it doesn't
 Whether we applied for this, let's just assume we applied and didn't even get it. We saw these housing choice vouchers or the demonstration project vouchers that the housing authority has been trying to partner to figure out how do they invest with private sector
 to do something better than what fairgrounds is today. So whatever ends up happening tonight, I just want to invite and I'll take you up on that offer that my office will certainly work with the housing authority and work with our community development department to come up with strategies. However, the one reason why I was it's an interesting issue is that as Mr. Kluwer said, again, just as a point of information, if
 except the housing the demonstration vouchers and fairgrounds is no longer there we can still have this plan but apparently fairgrounds won't be eligible because they don't wouldn't have a distressed housing development within that ellis heights neighborhood as a driver for a new application for choice it is what it is i don't like that the way it was explained it seems
 in the year called to a rock and hard place, but I just wanted to mention that because the other option would be, you know, as Mr. Kluwer, I think, said last week, we can move it forward and keep it as a placeholder and try to make adjustments later, but it will come back before the council. But I certainly respect the positions that have been expressed today. Any other discussion? If there are none, clerk, please call the roll. Again, we're voting on all of those items under C-1234567 as it was amended.
 Gatchas McNamara Hervey No on 6 Aye on the remainder Hill Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Scharelli Roman numeral 10 C 1 and 2 9 ayes 1 abstain Roman numeral 10 C 6 2 ayes 8 no and the remainder 10 ayes 0 no
 Each of the matters 1 through 7 pass except for item 6 which fails. Your business. I'm sorry. You had another motion to apologize. We'll go back to motions and resolutions. I apologize. Your Honor, I have a resolution for combining City and County 911 call centers. I'm referring to the codes and regulations committee. Thank you very much. May I refer to codes and regulations? All in favor? Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to refer to the codes and regulations committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under Roman numeral 11 new business ordinances, I have four items. The adoption of an ordinance for the 2015 budget request and work plan of Rockford Community Partners, formerly known as Eden in accordance as recommended in the attached memorandum from Todd Cagnone, community and economic developer, dated December 23, 2014.
 We have the adoption of an ordinance for the redevelopment agreement between Joseph James Partners and the City of Rockford regarding the southeast quadrant of North Main and Auburn Streets.
 The next is an ordinance for the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Servicomp LLC for community development block grant funds in the amount of $50,000 regarding 175 Executive Parkway. And I believe on our sheets that's wrong. It should be a forgivable loan. It is a five-year forgivable loan and promissory note. So that item, there's a typo there on number three.
 Number four, an adoption of an ordinance for the development agreement between the City of Rockford and the Koch family regarding reinvestment and rehabilitation of Mary's Market, located at 4343-43XX-4431-44XX East State Street. I would ask for a suspension of rules on all these items. Second. I'll submit a motion and second to submit the rules on the following items.
 I'll read them again. We're working on the structure, although we've covered it before. These are the ordinances. And since they're suspended rules, I do have to refer to them again as I read them and ask for the vote on the suspension. First is the ordinance for the 2015 budget request for a plan for Rockford Community Partners formerly . Next is the ordinance for the redevelopment agreement between Joseph James Partners and the City of Rockford.
 regarding the southwest quadrant of North Bay and Walmart. Next is the ordinance for the development agreement between the city and Servicom for a community development block grant funds of $50,000 or five year for a loan or promissory note related to job creation. And finally, the ordinance, the development agreement between the city and co-family regarding investment and rehabilitation of Mary's Park on East 8th Street. Mr. Hayes.
 or mr uh all right i'm suffering to all of them and catches i think we've lost a council member which i believe we need 10 votes mr ace to suspend rules yes sir i can confirm that our 10th older man stepped out so we're down tonight so we are unable to call the vote to suspend rules so the matters will lay over and by the way just as a reminder procedurally we can tee these up to take them next week
 If need be, if we don't have our 10th member for seminacles tonight, we could hand that to the agenda. I'm sorry, she's not gone for the evening talk. We will come back if the 10th member joins otherwise. So next we'll move to codes and regulations. We'll just go back to the items and
 We'll just go back and I'll just ask since Hi You beat me to the punch. So, Paul and Herbie, we had just lost our necessary 10 votes if we were going to try to suspend the rules on those four items of new business, the ordinances on the P&D agenda, Road Number 11A, 1 through 4. So with that, if I can, I'd ask for a motion
 all those in favor of suspending the rules on those items please say aye aye opposed no so one then three four five six seven so we don't have ten votes on the first item so that one will lay open the other three would pass so we are suspending the rules then on items two three and four under Roman thank your honor then I would place Roman in the room alone
 11, A, 2, 3, and 4, up for passage. As matters of passage, is there discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getchis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Hill? Thompson-Kelly? Yep. Odo? Newberg? Aye. Shirelli? Aye. Tenay, sir. Under. As matters of pass, other item will lay over. Shirelli? Aye. Under. New business? Aye.
 Missed ordinances number B1, adoption of an ordinance for the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation to approve the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant in the name of Chintana Sankchanabong doing business at Sisters Thai Cafe in a C3 General Zoning, Commercial Zoning District of 7801 East State Street subject to conditions
 Number two is the adoption of an ordinance for the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation to approve the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the name of Max Convenience Stores LLC doing business at Circle K 1437 and the C1 Limited Office Zoning District at 2225 West Riverside Blvd subject to conditions.
 number three is the adoption of an ordinance for the liquor tobacco advisory board recommendation to approve the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience door in the name of max convenience stores LLC business as circle K 1425 and a seat to limited commercial zoning district at 3819 Broadway subject to conditions number four is the adoption of an ordinance
 with the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation to approve a special use permit for a 10-foot tower extension on the existing 70-foot ATC tower for an overall height of 80 foot in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6449 East State Street, subject to conditions number five, six, and seven. We're passing over, Your Honor.
 Number eight is the adoption of an ordinance for the zoning Board of Appeals Recommendation to approve the variation to reduce the parking drive aisle width from 24 feet to 22 feet And a c4 urban mix use zoning district at 210 North Main Street subject to conditions All those
 Thank you there's been a motion second to submit rules for the following items of business from the code and regulation committee The first is to approve sale of liquor by the drink for the sisters cafe 78 state subject to conditions Next is to approve sale of tobacco with gas station and convenience store circle K 2225 west riverside
 Next is to approve sale of tobacco at the gas station convenience store, circle K of 1425 at 3819 Broadway. Next is the ordinance approving the special use permit for the 10 foot tower extension to an overall height of 80 feet at 6449 East 8th Street under the services conditions. And then the last item is the ordinance
 approving the variation reduce parking drive miles 24 to 25 feet C4 or district and 210 North Main Street conditions motion second spend the rules each of those all in favor say aye no which one so they all fail don't they miss race no suspension period like part 10 votes oh just suspended yes those match all that
 Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. And the vote corrects. I'm sorry. Do you have any questions now? Go back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items. The first is ordinance authorizing providing for the issue of $12,335,000 general obligation bonds series 2015 for the purpose of providing capital improvements in and for the city.
 prescribing the details of said bonds, providing imposition of taxes to pay the same for the collection, segregation, and application of certain sales tax receipts to pay said bonds and authorizing the sale of said bonds to the purchaser thereof. Next, I have an ordinance for an intergovernmental agreement among the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, the municipality of the State of Illinois, the Rockford Mass Transit District, a unit of local government, and JPMorgan Chase Bank for the 2015 RMT line of credit.
 Next, I have an ordinance amending Chapter 5, businesses, permits, taxes and licenses, Article 2, Division 2, sales tax, Section 548, Code of Ordinances to repeal the Sunset Clause on taxes on food, beverage, alcoholic liquors and hotel rooms to support redevelopment fund. Next, as I move the adoption of the 2015 license and fee schedule.
 effective January 5th, 2015. And then I have, I move the adoption of the management oversight agreement and loan agreement with the South Main Shopping Center to fund and manage remedial activities at 325 South Madison Street in connection with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Brownsville Revolving Loan Fund. I ask for suspension of rules on those, I'm sorry, item number one will lay over and then I ask for suspension of the rules on two, three, four, and five.
 Thank you, there's been a motion and a second to spend the rules on each of these items for our Finance Committee new visits. The first item is the ordinance for the intergovernmental agreement of the city, Winnebago and Oval Counties for the Rockford Mass Transit District for the 2015 line of credit. Next is the ordinance amending chapter five, business permits, taxes, licenses, article two, division two sales taxes, section five dash 48.
 to repeal the sunset clause and taxes on food and beverages, and come home in years in hotel rooms to support the redevelopment fund. Next is the 2015 license and fee schedule. Fund the fees effective January 5th, 2015. And finally, the management oversight agreement and loan agreement with South Main Shopping Center to fund and manage medial activities at 325 South Madison Street, the Marauder Watch Factory, in conjunction or connection with United States Environmental Protection Agency, Brown,
 motion second the rules for each of those four items all those in favor please say aye aye opposed no Mr. Mayne sorry to interrupt sir city attorney Mr. Hayes yes your honor thank you just for clarity that the parties to the intergovernmental agreement on the
 RMTD and JP Morgan, Chase Bank, the way it's in the CRIMS, it might lead you to believe that Winnebago and Old O'Pole counties are part of the agreement. They're not. That's just clarifying that the city of Rockford exists in both those counties. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for the clarification. For any, I'm sorry, all those in favor of suspending the rules and those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. My place is up for passage. I'm sorry, I didn't catch that. Was there a no? No.
 that we have our 10 volts and it's true to buy a couple of answers matters of passage there discussion all of it I mean this but I wasn't here and could someone please explain item 3 the sunset clause is this what we routinely have to do every year
 I'll take a stab at it but we know we're reauthorizing the redevelopment tax but typically it would expire at some future date I think was in May or two thousand thirty two or something like that and we decided to take out that expiration date and that's just perpetual until it's on the day down the road the city council could decide to change that but I
 there's no sunset clause on the tax. Mr. Black can clarify if I missed anything? Just what Alderman Beck said is essentially correct. It was set to expire in 2028. The bonds that we were planning on issuing for the downtown sports facility, we're
 are depending on that revenue source for repayment and those bonds if they're done for a 20 year term wouldn't expire until there would would be we'd be paying debt service on till 2034. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Thank you Mayor. For clarification this is just one time we're going to remove the sunset clause so it's to reinstate it they would
 I mean we're removing the clause that it should So unlike certain votes that we have to take like our 1% sales tax for capital we have to do that via referendum what we do at sunset the redevelopment fund the way I understand it if the city council wanted to add in a sunset next year or the year after there's no prohibition against us doing so
 so right now the vote tonight if it would be approved would eliminate the sunset which would allow us to be sold without any concern about funding being away during the sale of bonds which would be important for the underwriting but if at some point my future city council wanted to add a sunset there would be nothing prohibiting that if they don't believe mr is that correct yes sir thank you thank you for the discussion yes carrying on the clerk please don't roll okay
 Aye. Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hill? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Back? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Tenay, Your Honor. Yes, thank you. Appreciate everyone's patience as we're going through our agenda structure. We look forward to any comments and suggestions on how we can improve it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm hearing no further business before the council. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. A motion and a second. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Meeting is adjourned.