Good evening. We will call to order the special city council meeting for the city of Rockford for Monday, January 23rd, 2023. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Milgram and Toomer. Here. Frost, Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins. Here. Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. Here. 13 present. Thank you. We have a quorum for this evening. You will see that there are appointments there, and if you recall, just at our last council meeting, we approved about six or seven different appointments. One of those appointments we approved was a clerical heir. We approved Jennifer Spencer, who's already on the ZBA and LTAD board, when Jennifer Smith's appointment was up. So first I want to do is correct that just so you're all aware. It'll be corrected in our minutes to reflect that. But with that, we still have the reappointment of Jennifer Smith before us. And if this body were to want to take this vote up, Director Myers, would there have to be – Any other action taken before or can they just simply take this up if they'd like to I think the better way to do it would be to Suspend the rule and then take the vote on it. Although it was a clerical there. It was enough to Be of substantive in nature. So if the Alderman are Inclined to take it up We would first appreciate a motion to suspend the rule and then a vote on the underlying item. Would that be rule 15? 18 So if someone wanted to take that up, they could make a motion to suspend Rule 18 if Alderman Bonnie I would make that motion. So we have a motion to suspend Rule 18. Is there a second we have a second Is there any discussion all those in favor of just suspending the rule say aye those opposed to suspending the rule Say aye Okay, we have one against So now we have that item before us Is there any discussion on the reappointment of Jennifer Smith to the ZBA and the LTAB board for a term expiring in June of 2027? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Aye. Okay. Item passes. Thank you for that. And my apologies. Next, we'll move to motions and resolutions, and we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, guys. There's two items. One is the acceptance of the non-competitive contract for... the tracking and reporting of wage data for state and federal requirements to lcpt tracker of orange california in the amount of twenty seven thousand six hundred and seventy five dollars the contract duration is one year with three possible one-year extension options annual price adjustments for cpi will be considered a contract renewal only the funding source is the legal department operating budget Number two is an acceptance of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Preparedness Grant in the amount of $53,683.97. The grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is from October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2024. The Emergency Services Disaster Agency utilizes a whole community approach working to ensure that the four phases of emergency management are utilized in the event of a disaster. Those include mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. I place these two matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So, Council, we have these two items. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logerman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Hunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Thank you.