Good evening everyone. We are going to call to order the City of Rockford's scheduled meetings for this evening. So this evening we actually have two meetings. We have a special city council meeting that just has one or two items on it. And then we have a strategic planning session to which we'll cover three different topics. But to open us up, we are fortunate this evening to have Chaplain Ken Henley who will provide us with an invocation. Let's pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we come before you tonight asking that the decisions that are made here in this meeting tonight will be prosperous and be for the benefit of all citizens of Rockford. And Lord, we just pray right now that you would be with the council as they make those decisions, as they lead the city. We also pray that you'd be with our police departments and our fire department, Lord, as they go about their task, making us safe in the city. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Excellent. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Before we get into public speakers, we do have a special presentation, so I'd ask the Rockford Area Arts Council as well as the Rockford Public Library to come up and join me. Thank you. Good evening. Should we move over a little bit? I'm going to move over by you. Good evening. My name is Mary McNamara Bernston and I'm the director of the Rockford Area Arts Council. In 2021, the Arts Council, in partnership with the City of Rockford and the Rockford Public Library, established the City of Rockford Poet Laureate and Youth Poet Honor Award. The poet programs are honorary awards and the Poet Laureate has a two-year term and the Youth Poet has a one-year term. We have our current poet laureate here tonight with us, Jenna Goldsmith, and we want to congratulate the outgoing youth poet, Kyla Anderson, and wish her the best on her creative journey. There is a lot of compelling data that states and demonstrates that youth are dramatically impacted by their involvement in the arts. Communities with youth who participate in the arts experience a 5.4% reduction in crime. Youth involved in the arts are five times less likely to drop out of school. They're two times more likely to go to college, and they are 78% more likely to vote, which is very important for this crowd here. Tonight, we are honoring our third youth poet, and we're eager to introduce Trinity Rucker to our community as a 2024 City of Rockford Youth Poet. All right, so I get the honor to introduce all of you to Trinity, and I want to share a little bit of her background and what makes her an excellent youth poet for the City of Rockford. So, obviously, the 2024 Youth Poet is Trinity Rucker. Trinity is a seventh grade student at Maria Montessori. Her poetry received an honorable mention in the Gwendolyn Brooks Youth Poetry Awards, where Trinity's poem was published and she received the opportunity to spend a week in Orlando, Florida, with the Kim Meyers applauding rising talent at the arts. Trinity hopes to inspire others to follow their dreams and be their best selves. She is interested in hosting workshops and other poetry readings at our local homeless shelters. Trinity is heavily involved at her church. Shout out to the Word Worship Center. She loves to sing. Trinity plays volleyball. She's been attending the Washington Park Community Center her entire life. And Trinity is passionate about her involvement in the leadership programs at Washington Park Community Center. So, Trinity, we're so proud to have you as our youth poet. Can't wait to work with you this next year. Would you like to share a few words? Sure. I'm incredibly honored to step into this position, and I have so many things planned for this year. I'm so excited for this year, and I'm forever grateful for the man upstairs who allowed me to step into this position. I'm so grateful for the people who pushed me to get to where I am now, such as my parents, my friends, Washington Park Community Center, my church, and my teacher, Ms. Serna, and all of my family. I love you guys, and I thank you so much. So now I'm going to share a poem with you that I wrote called The Lord. Who created the sky? No one but the Lord. Who stretched out unique colors of blue? Who created the clouds, white and fluffy? Who created the perfect day with temperatures in the 70s, the sun out, birds chirping, kids playing, people singing, and the church bells ringing? No one but the Lord. Who created the beautiful sunset? Reds and pinks and purples dashed across the sky, touching the ground, no longer up high. No one but the Lord. Who allowed the day to come to an end? Who made sure that we would ascend? Who placed the stars in the sky? Who created the moon to light up the night skies so that kids would no longer have to cry? No one but the Lord. And who tucked you in at night? Who made sure that you would sleep tight? Who was your friend when the day came to an end? No one but the Lord. And who woke you up this morning, blood still running through your veins? Who allowed you to breathe now that a new day has came? And who made sure that every I love you was never in vain? Who was your umbrella when you were in the rain? No one but the Lord. So I just, before I turn you over to Mary and the Arts Council, just want to say I'll vote for you today. I can't believe you're in seventh grade. I wish I'm as mature and put together as you are Even at my age right now I just want to say thank you and a sincere Thank you to the library as well as the Arts Council for helping shine a light on poetry the arts and our youth On behalf of the Arts Council in the city of Rockford and the Rockford Public Library You are now the youth poet for the city of Rockford. I Okay, thank you again Trinity the Arts Council as well as the library Just awesome should start every City Council like that So with that, we are going to move to our public speakers. We have three public speakers, or I'm sorry, we have two public speakers this evening. Public speakers, there's microphones on the back right and the back left. As you're aware, you have three minutes to address the council. When you hear the alarm go off, just ask that you close up your comments. And our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 13th chapter, the 20th verse, it says, He who walks with the wise grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers harm. What I want to speak about tonight, most children, most youth can be saved. Unless something is done soon, some of today's newborns will become tomorrow's super predators. merciless criminals capable of committing the most vicious of acts for the most trivial of reasons. Past Republican President candidate Bob Dole said, in trying to make political capital out of public fear a common tactic, He calls for new get tough measures to combat juvenile violence in addition to civil sentences and making more juvenile offenders eligible for servitude in adult prison. He advocates that juvenile arrest records be made public and stick with delinquent forever like adults arrest records. Permanently branding all children arrested for any offense criminal for life, damaging future employment and educational opportunities, regardless of whether the child grows out or what is often temporary misbehavior, is a bizarre notion that has nothing to do with prevention and a lot to do with draconian styles of punishment. With Dole and other get tough advocates, the problem is how they see the problem. Seizing on sensational exception, they draw sweeping conclusions from stupid evidence. The truth is, as study after study has shown, most troubled youth can be saved. Sweeping get tough feel-good policies do not work, what they do accomplish is to squander, scare resources that could be put to better use. Help for drug abuse, unemployment, homelessness, poverty, programs for at-risk and troubled youth, cracking down on truancy, focusing juvenile anti-crime police efforts and especially urban areas, rather than printing away money and effort on broad brush ineffective tactics. above all, white, red community and parental concern needs to be stepped up. Kids are different. They do not think like adults. The average child doesn't have the tools to control impulsive behavior. When he learns as he learns, he matures into a responsible adult. Kids do not understand time is a dog's food. They live in the now. Until society learns to restructure itself by resurrecting the nuclear family and eliminating poverty, child abuse, neglect, domestic trauma, it should turn away from those who urge destroying children in the name of safety. The tried and true way of transforming young males into productive citizens. Education by parents, education by teachers, education by counselors, and education by by the entire community. Education is the antidote, the key that opens dreams and keep hope alive. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm going to read Proverbs 27. The Lord is my light, my salvation. Who shall I fear? The Lord is my strength of my life. Who shall I be afraid? When the wicked, even lying enemies and my foes come upon me to eat up my flesh, they shall stumble and fall. Proverbs 27. Today I have before you in another couple of days is Black History Month. Right before you I have Lewis Lemon Stewart raise your hand Macintosh raise your hand Constable Lane raise your hand Kennedy Middle School, raise your hand. I don't have Risha and I don't have Riverdahl here with me. What I want to bring to the mayor's attention and also I'm going to bring it up at the RPS 205 board meeting. I'm the first person they put on the Code and Conduct Committee that's from a grassroots organization that I'm not bound by any politicians or any funding where I'll be able to speak about the Code and Conduct. about our future generation. Our Black History Month, a lot of our kids don't even know our own black history. That's something that we have to be the ones to teach them. What I want to take opportunity is talk about the red tape. The RPS 205, live, learn, and play, they have a lot of red tape that makes it very difficult for grassroots organizations to receive the funds. We use, for example, the Renewal Turning Point Program. It should be no if, ands, and buts that Renewal Turning Point should not have received any funds from the live, learn, and play. But yet they have a whole lot of red tape preventing us from receiving that fund. Right now we're addressing four elementary schools, three middle schools. We're doing that renewal turning point. The CEO of renewal turning point is doing that by himself. He shouldn't have to be doing that by himself. have hired two of the librarians to work with our kids at the after school program. One teacher has given up his time where he don't charge us forty five dollars for teaching them math, reading. He's also working with bilingual. Right now we work with nine kids. I'm moving fifteen to twenty kids every day. If we had received that fund, we could be receiving over, we could have been addressing hundreds of kids. I'm glad to see the Pied District have found me. came in, I see them picking up kids where they used to worry about liability. I see the YMCA picking up kids. That's a good thing. The Boys and Girls Club picking up kids. Booker Washington Center picking up kids. Also, Christian Life Center is picking up kids. But we can have more organizations picking up kids because we can put a big dent in the crime that's committed by our young people in the community. That's why when we next month, we see the color purple movie, after we watch the color purple movie, we'll have a dialogue about domestic violence and systematic racism. Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. And the rest is on you. Thank you. OK. Next, we're going to move into our meeting. We have one item under motions and resolutions under finance and personnel. So I'll go to, was going to go to Alderman Frost. Could I go to Alderman Tunberg? Sure. Thank you, Mayor. We have one item on the Finance Personnel Committee. Item number one committee recommends approval of the change order license plate reader camera system to flock safety of atlanta georgia new contract amount 256 000 annually original contract was for 194 900 for the first year 166 000 for the second year for 64 license plate readers expanded contract is 90 000 for the first year 90 000 for the second year for 36 additional LPRs license plate readers the police department is requesting to combine the two contracts to simplify accounting and Budgeting the funding sources police department operating budget. Excellent. Thank you Thank you alderman to Merga council. We got one item before us Is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion on that item clerk? Could you please call the roll? Toonberg Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. Bonney. Ten ayes. Excellent. Item passes. Is there a motion to adjourn that meeting? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye.