Cherelli. 10 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on December 30th 2019? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. All right, motion passes. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 6, 2020?
 We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next we'll move to proclamations. We don't have any this evening, so we'll go to petitions and communications, and we will go to Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the authorization to adopt the updated Winnebago County Multihazard Mitigation Plan, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got the Zoni Board of Appeals agenda.
 for the meeting to be held on January 22nd, 2020, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on January 27th, 2020. We have the LTAP, the Liquid and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on January 22nd, 2020, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on January 27th, 2020.
 Refer both of those to codes and regs your honor Thank You alderman Trelli and I don't see anything under Finance and personnel so we will move to public speakers and we have three public speakers this evening The first public speaker is Pamela Whiteside and it sorry I just want to remind all public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and back left and that all public speakers will have Three minutes to speak. Thank you
 I just wanted to see can I get some help from the city for justice for my son. My son was shot up in my backyard October the 3rd, 2018. Two boys jumped the fence trying to shoot at another boy. My son was sitting in the car, him and his fiancee, they both got shot up but my son the only one died. I want justice done in the city.
 I want to see what could I do to help. I'll never be bright until I have a son and three daughters. They love without a dad. I try to do everything I can for them. I told my dad and my son before he took his last breath, I'm going to do everything I can, but I ain't got much. But I'm going to do as much as I can. I just want the city to bring justice to me.
 close my heart. I got a hole in my heart right now because my son is not here. The ones that didn't feel like they're living their life. My son didn't deserve that. He was at home and he was at the right place at the right time. They was just aiming at somebody else. And my son got hit six times and his fiancee four times. She was six months pregnant, but they both survived.
 But my son is not. I'm just asking the city, please, guide me through this. Give me justice. I need it. I'll never be right until I get it. Please do that for me. Mr. Mayor, I don't know her. I'm hurting for her. I think we're all hurting for her. But some people are not having a heart like I do. But I want you to reach out.
 Please, and help her, okay? And one other thing before I go, I didn't talk with normal people downtown. I still ain't got the help that I need. They told me to come forward with information, whatever information I get, and I did. And they said, that's still not enough. My daughter-in-law, she came forward. She was in the car. She got shot four times in the back of the head, twice in the arm.
 blow the bone out of her leg. She got a rod in her leg the rest of her life. My son took six shots, tomato shots, through the back of the side of the ear and it ricocheted his brain and landed in his brain. And I watched him take his last breath at the hospital. And that's the worst thing ever, to watch. And then, anybody trying to help me get through this. That's all I want. Justice, please.
 Wester, will you make sure that you get Ms. Whiteside's contact information for me? Okay, our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Numbers, the 23rd chapter, the 19th verse, it says, God is not a man that he should lie, nor a son of man that he should change his mind. Does he speak and did not act? Does he promise and not fulfill? What I want to speak about tonight, a poem about I'll never make it.
 They said, you'll never make it. And they thought that they were right. But I kept on plodding onward because I hope I might. They shook their heads and wondered that I lacked the sense to quit. But I held my chin up high and I didn't mind a bit. They said, you'll never make it as the problems multiply. But I had to make an effort and to know at least I tried. So I dug my heels in deep, though sometimes my spirit lagged.
 and I showed what was lightest and the rest I sort of dragged. And I found to my amazement at the ending of the day that what they said I couldn't, I had managed anyway. It only took three little words, Lord help me, and I rid myself of doubt. And all they said I'll never do, I did. Also been wanting to tell my wife
 My granddaughter, Landa, also known as Little Sugar, Chief Epperson, and Mr. Jim Ryan, and Alderman Gasparini's wife, this for a long time.
 And I'm gonna get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday my good friends, and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday to my good friends, happy birthday to you.
 And I wish you many more. God bless you and take care of you. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Come on this side, little man.
 Proverbs says, God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb can be recited positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people can be blessed. We help others when they are in trouble. They will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can we do today to help God supply someone's needs? The power of preaching commitment can never be underestimated.
 I want to thank everyone, the mayor, the city, the aldermen, and most of all the principals and teachers at the school and other sponsors that supported us taking 30 people down to Springfield, Illinois on Dr. King's birthday. And for the place, and first of all, we needed like $1,000.
 to go to springfield lying you we just went to the of uh... harlem gold travel game what we had to raise nineteen hundred dollars and that was all a thirty-year so here we go to reach later as the last week monday only had seventy dollars the past actually uh... i told my need to raise a thousand dollars by friday what about friday i had raised the twelve hundred dollars to take uh... the youth and adult but also we put rockford
 on the map. When we was down there in Springfield, we stopped at four places. We stopped at the Illinois State Capitol, we stopped at the Old State Capitol, we stopped at the Illinois State Museum, we stopped at the Lincoln President Museum. What was so important is when we stopped at the Illinois State Museum, we stopped at the Lincoln President Museum.
 And the curator was talking about the beginning, who was the first people to arrive in Illinois and at the different cities. And so I brought up the fact of, okay, who was the first black to arrive in Illinois? Well, guess what? The curator at the Illinois State Museum didn't know. The kids didn't know. And when I brought up, okay, what's the name of the school? Then one of the parents say,
 Louis Leonard. Then I asked who was the second black that was, that found the city. I was surprised and blown away that the curator at that museum didn't know it was DuSable. So they said when they, when we left they were saying, well from now on we're going to start talking about mentioning them too.
 So one of the kids right here was saying, well, Brother John, who gonna take your place when you gone? And so my thing is to tell them, we teaching them everything that we know so they be the ones that take our place when I'm gone. And the other important thing is we can complain about the school, the city, and talk about the administrators, but like John F. Kennedy said,
 Uh, don't ask what your country can do for you. What can you do for your country? I turned around and asked all the habits and the naysayers don't ask what the city can do for you, but what you're doing for the city to uh, to work with us having four legs and I just want to end
 Thank you. By saying this, if I may say this, the three legs is the parents, the teacher, the student. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fourth leg is us. Thank you. And thank you for all of your support. We should be getting five minutes. Thank you. Some nights it feels like you do. All right. We'll move right along. We have new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll move to code and regulation. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 under roman numeral five b one and two if i'd like to separate two
 for the moment your honors and move to item number one the committee recommends approval for the agreement with winnebago county homes association for a rock house at 1233 revell avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance i placed it up for passage your honor yeah and i did miss it first you're going to separate the two yeah i separated two i'll get back to that one so we have uh one item right now in front of you which is uh item 5b1 is there any discussion on that one
 Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? Yes, rainy timber for us Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Shirely I nine ice excellent that item passes Okay, your honor for Roman numeral B to I moved to amend the committee report under new committee reports Roman numeral 5b item 2
 approval of the proposed amendments to the city of rockford liquor ordinance chapter 3 to reflect the following changes number one section 3-141 definitions replace hold per day hpd per vgt to hold per day per location
 Replace the average amount of money held after payouts for each VGT on a daily basis per location, with the average amount of money being held after payouts on a daily basis per location, divided by the number of VGTs at that location. Number two, under 3-142C, renewal dates, replace April 30th with January 31st.
 Number three under 3-142 G 7 F replace the first sentence with each location must average $100 HPD annually. In the second and third sentences remove the reference to per terminal and each terminal.
 In the second sentence, add, and or suspension or revocation of their liquor license. In the third sentence, add, except that any license holder that is granted a modification to their liquor to add an additional gaming terminal must meet the $150 HPD annual requirement at that location or be subject to forfeiture of that terminal sticker and or suspension or revocation of their liquor license.
 Number four under section 7 add paragraph G which states Compliance with the provisions of this article 3 shall constitute a condition of the liquor license Any license holder that violates any provision of this article 3 shall be subject to the suspension or revocation of their liquor license and in addition to other penalties set forth herein and
 Number five, under section 3-148, replace that section with the following. Every video gaming terminal which does not have a valid video gaming terminal sticker or is not licensed by the Illinois Gaming Board shall be considered a gambling device subject to seizure.
 Number six at a new section 3-1 49 severability as follows in the event that any of these sections in this article 3 are declared invalid or Unenforceable by any court or competent jurisdiction the remaining sections that are not affected there By shall remain in full force and effect in a second. We have a motion in a second Is there any discussion? We've each alderman has this on their desk. I
 but legal director would also be willing if alderman beach thank you your honor uh i'd just like to have a little more clarification on this sentence suspension or revocation is there something that would trigger suspension when you say something this sentence are you looking at under the second sentence no i i think there's several times it was mentioned like three times the one i'm looking at right now is three um
 on the second sentence and or suspension verification let me find the other one under i can turn it okay so i'm just saying um is there something that guides that decision where one will have it have replication one will have suspension thank you director myers
 No, the answer is typically it's we would only reach a revocation under those circumstances after there's been a fine, then like a suspension and a revocation. So the reference to suspension and revocation is just to be consistent with other parts of our liquor ordinance that shows the progression of penalties that we typically follow from fine, suspension, then to revocation. All right. Thank you, sir. No problem. Thank you. Any other discussion or clarifications needed?
 Seeing none, do you, we'll do a roll call. Have fun with it. Durkee. Gasparini. Toomberg. Ross. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Chiarelli. Nine ayes. Thank you, Your Honor. Now I place that item as amended up for passage.
 Thank you. So we have one item before you, item 5B2 amended. Is there any discussion on this? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Gasperini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 Number one, the committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $7,762,780.62, as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on January 13, 2020. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the surplus property policy, which provides for disposal methods as allowed by state law, as well as giving staff the ability to sell surplus property, except for vehicles to other governments.
 Area not-for-profits their employees city employees and residents for the same amount the city would Otherwise get the legal department shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three The committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the Illinois Department of Transportation for the 11th Street corridor study the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance a
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of a 2% general wage increase for non-union employees retroactive to January 1, 2020. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five is an approval of the agreement addendum with resource innovations LLC for weatherization work from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those five items before you. Thank you. We have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Chiarelli. Nine ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have officers' reports. And I just want to spend a second with some pretty sad news over the
 The one weekend we lost Jack McCarron, and Jack McCarron was a longtime city employee and was a father of our finance director, Kerry Haggerty. And I would say no one can say it better than, I think, the way that it was read.
 in the obituary, so I just want to share this. I think we've got to honor Jack and Carrie because he meant a lot to the organization and to our employees and certainly still means a lot to Carrie. It said, what the girls didn't realize at the time was that their dad was what every woman longed for.
 what every daughter needed a man that worked hard for his life to provide them with anything they could ever want a man that always Put their needs and their mother's needs first a man who stood up for what was right and was there whenever anyone needed anything an Honest man that was always a constant supporter of whatever decisions they made a man that made the lives of other
 That woman and three girls complete in every way I would say as a father of a daughter I can only hope that my daughter would ever once say something like that. So My are my sincere sympathies and I rarely speak on behalf of you But I would say the same for the City Council to the Carrie and her family For the loss of Jack. So on that note, I'll turn it all over to all of you to see if you have officers reports
 Other man off. Thank you, man Hopefully you've all gotten a copy of this Security dashboard for January and it's from our ha and I just wanted to point out something on here while it still looks Rather high with the arrests. They actually are coming down But my point is that since we've been working with the Rockford Police Department They have developed such trust with our
 residents that if you look down at the bottom, it says two of the arrests were for domestic violence. Six years ago, nobody would have called in. Nobody. It was so rare that when we had a young girl call for help for her mother, we made a big deal out of it and gave her a plaque and a presentation and everything because it just didn't happen.
 But they are developing such a relationship with our officers that they're now putting their names and numbers in their phone and they're calling. And we're starting to address domestic violence on the RHA properties. And I really want to thank our officers for that. They are really to be commended. It took a lot to get there. Thank you. And Mayor? Thank you.
 You already know how I feel about what you've been doing with domestic violence. I want to thank you. Thank you. And my sincere apologies. I just failed to remember, and it's my fault.
 Jack's other daughter Nikki also works for the water division. So our sympathies obviously go out to Nikki as well. Thank you There was a hand raise alderman to work. Yeah. Thanks mayor. I'd like to extend Sympathies to the Jones family Leroy Jones passed and the owner of the Lafayette hotel and some of you may have dealt with him and just like to recognize that and I
 Knowing that he was always fair when he would call me on things and to his residence I know he was he ran a pretty tight ship, but they also looked at him as a very fair-minded individual You know, he served in the hundred and first airborne In the army, I think he had seven kids so numerous grandchildren and and grandkids, but I
 his wife Lisa is is holding steadfast and has is strong and so I think the Lafayette will continue to be run successfully I know that that they've helped out the city in quite a few circumstances and when when we've needed to put some people up at the last minute I've stepped up to the plate and
 And as far as my time in office, I have yet to receive a complaint coming out of the Lafayette. And that says something. It's a pretty large place. And so I commend them to keep running it the way they are. And my sympathies to Lisa and the rest of the Jones family. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose.
 Two items. I just wanted to say thank you to Brian Squires for being our community services officer over in the 9th Ward and District 1. But he is taking on a different position with the police department, and we have a new community service officer in Kyle Parr over in our area. So for residents who are...
 interested in getting to know Officer Parr. We'll be getting some meetings scheduled here in the next few weeks to introduce him to the community so we're really happy on having him. The second item is I just wanted to say thank you to Thinker Ventures. They hosted an event downtown called Startup Weekend and it's
 an event where local entrepreneurs come into town, they try a startup company, and then they sell it, they try to sell that company and develop it as in a three day, real long three day process. So one of the local winners is a fan favorite of mine, Alicia Gelvin, so I wanted to congratulate her on winning the Thinker Ventures Startup Weekend.
 Awesome. Thank you. Alderman Urbans. Yeah, I just wanted to say that Sewer Assembly, I don't know if you know, or whoever, 604 Salter, the old New Zion Sewer Assembly, we just purchased that building. And we had our first service this past Sunday. And I want to invite you guys out February 2nd to our grand opening. And yeah, if you want to check out some of my carpentry skills, you can do so.
 reconfigured the stage and so got my own little touch to it and I'm really excited to be able to serve the community in a different type of way. Yeah, that was it. Thank you. The changes looked awesome. Your skills were on full display on social media. Oh, you saw? It looked great. Alderman Quinones. I want to give credit to Carol Sanders and the Public Works Department for doing a good job during the snowfall in the 11th Ward.
 and especially answering calls from citizens from the 11th ward good job don thank you other reports alderman durkee thank you i wanted to uh i i know you saw my text but i wanted to compliment you and attorney myers and flores and i'm assuming mr cagnoni mr franson regarding the magna building um
 You know the Essex building the magnet building tear downs I just want to compliment you for setting a tone in Rockford where we're not tolerating this stuff anymore And we've moved from a city that sort of looked beyond it or stepped over it to one That's attacking it and then really setting a tone for developers and property owners that this stuff They wouldn't have it in their backyard and and we're making them you guys are making it well known that we're not going to tolerate it here, so I
 My compliments to all of you for that hard work and the transformation that's going on. So kudos to you guys. Thank you. That is directly Director Myers and his team doing awesome work. Thank you. Other reports?
 Seeing none, we'll move to appointments laid over. We have one appointment that's laid over, appointment of Leslie West to the airport board to replace Kay Edward Copeland, whose term will expire in February 2020. Ms. West will serve a five-year term ending in January 2025. Is there a discussion about the one item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye.
 Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Irvins? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Ten ayes. Thank you. Next we'll move to motions and resolutions. And I don't believe we have anything under planning and development or code and regulation. So we'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 Number one is a renewal of agreement for medical stop loss 2020 nationwide insurance for a contract amount of 21.59 per employee per month for a single enrollment and 51.01 per employee per month for family enrollment. This is a 5% annual decrease as compared to 2019. The total estimated annual premium is $619,560 based on the current number of health insurance participants.
 The contract duration is annually, the funding source is the health insurance fund. Number two is an award of a bid for the 2019 demolition group eight to Northern Illinois Service Company in the amount of $77,741 for the demolition of 204 Forest Avenue, 1247 North Main Street, 921 Ferguson Street.
 527 North Avon, 511 Newport Avenue, 318 Alliance Avenue and 201 Summit Street. The contract duration is 45 days. The funding sources are the Community Development Block Grant and Abandoned Property Program.
 Number three is an award of bid for janitorial services to Crowley Services of Cherry Valley for annual amounts as listed below. The funding source is the property fund operating budget. It starts in year one at $160,020, and by year five it is $224,067.86. Thank you.
 Number four is an award of bid for electrical parts and supplies. The Crescent Electric Supply of DeKalb, Steiner Electric of Loess Park and Traffic Control Corporation of Woodridge for an estimated 185,000 annually based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four possible one year extensions. The funding source is the traffic operating budget.
 Number five is an award of bid for citywide inlet repairs 2020 to TCI Concrete of Rockford for an estimated annual amount of $300,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with one year extension. The funding source is the street division operating budget and CIP general fund.
 Number six is an award of bid for Auburn Street over the Rock River Bridge, joint repairs to Schoesterman Sons of Rockford in the amount of $92,998.14. The contract completion date is June 15th, 2020. The funding source is sales tax. Number seven is an award of RFP for materials testing 2020 to Geocon Professional Services of Rockford. For an estimated annual cost based on unit pricing of $200,000.
 the contract duration is one year with and three one-year extensions the funding sources of sales tax motor tax for fuel tax number eight is a change order for police uniforms the uniform down at lus park the original contract was seventy seven thousand
 There was a previously approved change order. There's a proposed change order of 50,000 for an amended total of $202,000. The funding source is the police department operating budget. Number nine is an award of engineering agreement for the bridge program management and various related engineering services for 2020 through 2024 to HR Green and McHenry. In the amount of $90,000, the contract duration is April 1, 2020 to April 1, 2024. The funding source is sales tax.
 Number 10 is an award of engineering agreement amendment for the Alpine Dam rehabilitation to HNTB Corporation of Chicago. The original contract amount was $469,894. There's an additional amount of $102,908 for an amended total of $572,874. The contract completion date is September 2021. The funding source is sales tax.
 Number 11 in a word of engineering agreement amendment the East State Street water main relocation from Mill Road to Perryville Road To Crawford Murphy and Tilly Aurora. The original contract amount was fifty six thousand nine hundred The additional amount is eighty thousand for an amended total of one hundred and thirty six thousand nine hundred dollars The anticipated completion date is July 2020 the funding sources the water replacement improvement account. I
 Number 12, the award of RFP for fire station alerting service system to US Digital Designs of Tempe, Arizona for a total cost of $716,949. The ETSB will be providing $374,932.48 toward the project costs. The fire department will fund $425,071.46 and the funding source is the fire department operating budget.
 I think we know why Alderman Beck was sick tonight. You did a really, really great job. So we have 12 items before the alderman. Is there any questions on those 12 items? Seeing no questions, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Chiarelli.
 10 ayes. Excellent. Those items passed. We'll move to new business. Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have an ordinance approving an agreement with Winnebago County Homes Association for a rock house at 1233 Revell Avenue and number two is an ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford liquor ordinance Chapter three place those two ordinances up for passage. Thank you alderman. We have two items before you Is there any discussion on those two items off alderman to yeah, thanks mayor I just like to thank everyone for your support on our
 on B1 for the Rock House in the Jackson Oaks neighborhood. Thank you all. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Gasparini. I'd just like to reiterate, Alderman Thunberg, it's a good thing for that neighborhood. There's a lot of calls coming out of there weekly, daily. This is going to help those people in that neighborhood, and I really appreciate the city. Thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Shirella. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to thank the delegation that's here this evening. Delegation? Delegation. They're all well-behaved and well-dressed. Their cooperation in the process of amending our liquor code this evening. Thank you. I hope we continue to keep cooperating and do great things for everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? No.
 Seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gaspareini. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Ten ayes. Thank you. Thank you. So we'll move forward with finance and personnel. Alderman Frost.
 your honor first is an ordinance approving the surplus property policy which provides for disposal methods as allowed by state law as well as giving staff the ability to sell surplus properties except for vehicles to other governments area non-for-profits their employees city employees and residents
 For the same amount the city would otherwise get number two is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the only department of transportation for the 11th street corridor study. Number 3 is an ordinance approving a 2% general wage increase for non union employees retroactive to January 1, 2020. And number 4 is an ordinance approving the agreement addendum with resource innovations, LLC for weatherization work.
 from january 1 2020 through december 31 2021 and it indicates your honor that we need to suspend rule 15 on item number four thank you so we have one item that uh needs item four needs to rule suspended is there a motion to suspend rule 15. don't move
 We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on just right now suspending Rule 15 for Item 9C4? All those in favor of suspending Rule 15, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay, that passes. So now we'll have all four items up.
 Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Durkee. Yes Marini. Tunberg. Ross. Urbans. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Chiarelli. 10 ayes. Thank you. And just one quick thing before I ask for a motion to adjourn. I'd be remiss as since Alderman Durkee brought up the Magna building.
 We're really fortunate that we have a lot of collaboration across different departments, and we wouldn't be able to do it without Director Franson and the Community Development Department putting pressure on at the beginning. So I feel remiss to say that. So thank you for your work. Now, is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and a second. No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.