On the right. Turkey. See you. Just breathe. I'm sorry. There's an old-fashioned scream at him right now. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha
 Tim Burke Here Jack Herbie Alderman Herbie Herbie is here Alderman Ervin Here Thompson Kelly Here Hoffman Here Rose Rose is here
 Here 13 present argument. Dirty is back. I mean, sorry, Chaz, did you get me? Logomans? Yes, I did. Okay. I apologize. Alderman Durkee, are you with us now? He's buffering. He's buffering. He's buffering. He's buffering.
 Yeah, so Alderman Durkee, if you can hear us, we're going to have to pause until, since you're present, we're going to have to pause until they get signed in. So if you could call in, maybe that would be the best way. We're going to give it about a two-minute recess here to see if Alderman Durkee can get called in. Okay.
 he still has dial-up internet uh
 Looks like he's attempting to call in, so we'll give him one more minute here. Okay, just one more minute. Enter your identity number. Followed by a pound if you do not know your identity number.
 WebEx is enabled to save audio. Alderman Durkee, it sounds like you may have him. I am here. Excellent. So, Alderman Durkee, I guess we mute your phone and then you unmute it with star six when you're going to speak. It adds a little feedback going on.
 I'm unmuted. I've been unmuted, so I think I'm okay now. Okay, wonderful. Thank you. All right, so we've done the roll call. Now we're at new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, item A. We have one item under
 the Code and Regulation Committee. Item one, 4628 South Main Street, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends as group of four, A, the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the Gasoline Station and Convenience Store with video gaming terminals, and B, the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with Gasoline Station and Convenience Store and the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 4628 South Main Street. And that again is a wealth travel stop.
 is there a motion to approve do we need one no i'm sorry is there any discussion seeing that discussion hi hi hi hi
 Irving. Aye. Thompson-Cudley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beech. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Thirteen ayes.
 Thank you. They have nothing under C, finance and personnel. So item D, legislative and lobbying committee. One item, committee recommends approving the renewal of the professional services contract with McGuire-Wicks Consulting LLC for them on a $10,000 per month for 2021 lobbying services. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Is there any discussion? I have a question, Your Honor. Okay.
 Alderman Tassie Keller are we going to prepare a list of priorities for the legislator yes and we uh prepared that last week and improved it last week okay okay thank you thank you any other discussions clerk will you please call the roll Durkee aye Nozoman Timber aye
 aye Ruby aye Irving no aye Thompson Kelly aye Hoffman no Beach aye Canona aye Manley aye McNeally no 12 ayes, 1 no excellent
 Appointments are made over. We'll move to motions and resolutions.
 We have nothing under A, planning and development, nothing under B, coding and regulation committee, nothing under C, finance and personnel. Item D is legislative and lobbying committee. Item one, committee recommends approval and confirmation of items for city of Rockford legislative and lobbying efforts in the Illinois General Assembly. So Alderman Constance Kelly, this is the item I think you were referring to. I apologize, we approved that committee last week, not at council.
 so this is uh we'll approve both those items at council so any discussion could i point can i ask for a point clarification on the last vote did alderman irvin's vote yes or no i believe he voted yes alderman irvin says that uh chad is that accurate yes i had him as a yes i believe someone where he was said no but it wasn't him alderman for you a yes
 I did vote yes. Thank you, sir. Okay, thank you. Alderman Thompson, tell me your question about the item at hand. Yes, I think that no was my mother. I apologize. I know I heard a no. My question is, can I possibly have a list of the items for the legislative and lobbying items?
 Absolutely. You want to see that? Yeah, be flat. Yeah. Yes. Thank you. I'll take it in writing. Your honor. Absolutely. Dr. Myers will send that out to you. Absolutely. Thank you. Any other discussion?
 Mr. Gooding please call the roll Gerke Aye Rosenman Aye Stumberg Aye Ross Aye Lurden Aye Thompson-Kelley
 Thank you. Alderman Beach? Aye. Canona? Aye. Hanley? Aye. St. Neely? No. 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you.
 Next under new business ordinances, item A, planning and development, we have no items. Item B, code and regulation, we have two items. Item 1, an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with a gasoline station and convenience store with video gaming terminals in a C3 and general commercial zoning district.
 at 4628 South Main Street. Item two, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gasoline station and convenience store and a C3 general commercial zoning district at 4628 South Main Street. So I need to discuss on those two items. Clerk, please call the roll. Clerk King. Aye. Good to meet you. Aye.
 Tumor Urban Captain Kelly I Hoffman Beach Kinona Stanley McNeely 13i
 Excellent. We have nothing under item C, which is finance and personnel. We'll move to item B, legislative and lobbying committee. And we have one item. In order to answer, approving the renewal of professional services contract with McGuire Words Consulting for the amount of $10,000 per month for 2021 lobbying services. Is there any discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Logan Logan Mendelson aye Humber Aye Brass Aye Kirby Aye Irving Aye Thompson Kelly Aye Hoffman Aye Rowe Aye Beech Aye Kenona Aye Hanley Aye McNeely No
 12 ayes 1 no excellent thank you now we will move to actually is there any objection just because we've had a couple of technical issues if i'm making motions to return and then we do officers reports mr meyer is there anything with robert's rules that we couldn't do that i just want to make sure that we get the vote to adjourn before someone else is anyone access
 You could adjourn the meeting, Your Honor, and then have the opposite side of the room. No final action. Okay. Is there anyone who objects to that? I just don't want it to bring stuff on us. Okay. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Irving. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Okay.
 clerk could you please call the roll Wilkie Aye Rosenman Aye Timber Aye Flack Aye Irby Aye Irvin Aye Thompson-Kelley Aye Hoffman Aye Williams Williams is an aye Beach Aye Kimona Aye Hanley Aye
 Aye. 13 ayes. We'll begin our officers' report. Altman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. A couple of things. The ice dog will be back on the 5th. I'm enjoying my ice dog and drink tonight. And also, I saw Mr. Wherry had sent an email regarding the ice dog. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure if he's still there. I'm not sure
 Um, health department director, I'm coming to city council on February. I reached out to and I know the. Department director, the legacy courtesy of having the, uh, any questions submitted, uh, you know, none questions. I had to go. Or when he hears that he may provoke that, um.
 I've reached out to a few aldermen and I'm collecting questions and I can um the alderman one of the family there so I'll put them all together I will submit them to uh uh Mayor McNamara as well as Mr. Wurie and um they confer them on to the health department if anybody's interested in doing that I'm willing to do that so thank you thank you for arranging that meeting
 Thank you. Alderman Logerman.
 Just real quick, Chief Bergston, I concur with everything the mayor said. Big congratulations. And I'll have you know, when I read the email today, I was wearing my Rockford Fire mask at Auburn High School. So represent. But big congrats to you, Chief. That's all I have, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you very much. Alderman Toonberg. Hey, congrats, Chief. That's great. Great news for you. Great news for the city of Rockford as well. Thank you.
 Part of the reason why I mentioned that the pain handling situation is that it has been an issue and I have been well before this time have been contacted
 numerous times by businesses downtown about it. I've been contacted by constituents that have, had concern about it in other parts of the city, Walmart, Staten, outside of the third ward.
 But having spent many years in the city of Chicago, I'm pretty well versed in panhandling. And frankly, if you give to these panhandlers, for the most part, you're being duped. And they, again, the number of social services we have are too.
 To numerous to count and the other great organizations within our city that help these individuals with shelter with clothing with food. You're just perpetuating the situation when you give money to these individuals.
 On another note, I think it's a safety issue. I don't know where the law stands as far as how far they can go in aspect, in respect to what I witnessed coming out of City Hall a couple years ago.
 And it was shortly before we dropped our own ordinance on panhandling out of the threat from the ACLU. And I witnessed a gal that was innocently walking to her walk-up, second or third floor apartment above one of the storefronts downtown. And I watched a gentleman walk right by her, stop, turn.
 turned around, started following her, followed her right up to her doorstoop.
 I started crossing the street and once he saw me, he started walking away then. But I've said if men are able to follow women now under the guise of panhandling, I severely disagree with this situation. And again, I don't know how, you know, with the laws specifically on the situation of
 particularly a man following a woman on the street but in this case I think that that gentleman could have maybe just said hey I was panhandling but who knows if I wasn't there or someone else wasn't there what could have possibly happened so you know that's that's a situation that concerns me also not only does it I think it doesn't look good on the you know for the city but for
 a safety issue. I'm not sure again whether they can just stand on the curb, but you know, many times you'll see them walking amongst the cars. You know, I can't walk in the street
 between cars I don't think that are parked on East State waiting for a stoplight. I surely can't ride my bike or motorcycle down the middle of those. So I don't know why these people can just get out and just walk amongst the cars without it being illegal. But I'd like to see, you know, some, to see what we could entertain. Maybe Attorney Meyer could look into that a little bit.
 if he hasn't already. So, thank you. Thank you. Alderman Poff. You know, I'm going to say something I've rarely said, and it's I agree with Alderman Tuber. I think you made a good point. On a constitutional basis, I don't know why someone would be allowed to stand in
 in the middle of the street and having a health, safety, and welfare issue that could create a potential safety hazard for both themselves and those going by. So I would ask with that new case that came down, perhaps,
 Mr. Meyer and his free time can look into that matter. I would also like to congratulate Chief Perkson for winning such a prestigious award statewide. Not only is it a feather in his cap, but again, I think to the entire City of Rockford that we're lucky to have lots and lots of talented staff members play in this particular case,
 Congratulations to being recognized by your peers. And I'm just glad that you're going to continue. I understand that you renewed a 20-year contract to stay here in the city of Rockford. So thank you for willing to serve out your entire chief career here in Rockford. Lastly, I would just like to wish everyone to try to be as safe as you can over the next year
 Coming hours, the stone looks like it could be anywhere from, you know. 4 to 7 inches of snow, but really it's there's some incredible wind coming. So I would also like to. Just send some well wishes to all of our public works staff and other staff that will be working. To keep keep our residents safe and just ask them to be safe out there as well. Thank you.
 Thank you. I think one thing that just showed who our chief person is, is with that 20 year contract, he has to reduce his salary each of those 20 years. And I almost said no, but understanding the financial condition of the city are obliged. So thank you. Chief. 1 of the kind of snow very well in his free time. So we can maybe use it as well. Excellent.
 Just to echo the congratulations to Chief Bergston, he should be Mr. July in the next firefighter calendar. I hear that's the ultimate pinnacle of the firefighter award. So thank you much and appreciate you a lot. Thanks. Alderman Irvin. Yes, thank you. I actually want to agree with,
 Uh, but the Chad as well, um, about the pan handling, uh, it's, I see it as an issue over here in the sixth ward, definitely on the, on the intersections of, uh, 11th street and Sandy hollow, you know, um, um,
 Yeah, whatever we could do to look into that. I mean, it's a real safety issue. And I'm going to be honest with you, being who I am, my heart is always to want to give. And so I always feel peer pressure to give money. And I feel like I got scammed a couple times. So really uncomfortable feeling, you know, sitting in your car and not wanting to make eye contact but feel bad for the enemy as well. And so I think that would be something that our –
 our residents would really appreciate it if we gave some attention to. So others met, uh, stay safe, stay warm and, stay blessed. Thank you. Alderman Thompson. Um,
 I just want to give you a fair warning. I agree with the panhandling situation. But you've got to pay attention to the fact that we have organizations that do panhandling and solicit in the middle of the streets and on the curbs that does major fundraising. So if we're going to establish something for panhandling, make sure it doesn't hurt
 want some organizations and help the others. That's just a caution that I wanted to make sure that legal looked at.
 because we have the fire department that do the fundraising and a lot of other organizations. So let's make sure that we're not hurting organizations with something that we're establishing. Over here on Auburn Street, I just come with my little red truck and they run. So if y'all want to borrow my truck, y'all can.
 But that was the problem that we have year round. One of the years we use the community service officers to patrol the known areas, which run them off, but you only run them off to another corner. But if you do that, you will put a better handle on it. Thank you. Thank you, Reverend Hoffman.
 I just want to say congratulations to the chief also. Great job. Thank you. And that's it for this evening. Thank you. All the minerals. Yeah, well, I just wanted to say congrats to the chief. I hope that in the future that.
 The new and that will be coming in the spring when you, when you go out to different events, especially with the firefighters and there's other area firefighters and firefighters. Rockford is oftentimes for recognize as a top tier fire fire department and people you'll hear the other firefighters say, oh, you guys are from. And it's just the excitement in there.
 In their voice that they're getting to work with lots of firefighters. So it's just really cool to see that a word chief and I'm going to often refer to Mr July now. Thanks. So all the woman. I'm going to need a hurry, but on a 2nd note, just in regards to the panhandling, I think something to consider. I know rockford has some of the best social services.
 I do, however, question people that want to place judgment on those that are panhandling. Obviously, there are people that are going to use it to their advantage, and there are obviously people who may use it for even drugs. But that's a case-by-case basis. If someone wants to donate money to someone, that's up to them. And I just would caution in the sense that that's...
 We're going through one of the toughest times in American history. We've over 3 million jobs lost in the United States. You know, policing poverty is something that I think I've all learned that it's probably not a great tactic to police poverty. And I guess one of the things I try to do is if someone asks me for money and they're hungry, I say, you know, can I buy you a meal? If someone asked me for, you know, money for a hotel room,
 refer to them to the social services down at the city if they need, you know, something to get them through the night for a room. Or I'll call up a hotel for them. We just got to be cautious, I think, sometimes when it comes to these things because so many people are hurting, so many people are going through this, and not every service does help on the
 in regards to certain groups you know i'll be honest i there was a time where i was very close to to being out on the streets on myself and when i reached out to um you know some organizations where i was living i was told well you're a guy figure it out and to be honest i i did my best i had some great friends who let me couch surf and it was something that i'll always
 I'll always remember, but not everyone's in the same situation. Not everyone has a good family or a good group of friends that can help them along their way. And so I would just caution, if you don't feel comfortable giving someone money, don't. But, you know, giving someone a helping hand in these times of need, especially during the wintertime when it's cold out. Yeah.
 I think we need to take into consideration that this is not exactly the easiest time on certain groups of people. Alderman beach yes.
 As far as the chief goes, I tell you, we're honored to have him. Thank you, Chief. I understand that maybe this might be the year you might want to reconsider the top hat again to award everybody that's been just looking for that top hat. Maybe this is the year, okay? Now, the other thing as far as the panhandling, you know out there at Alpine and Alpine and East H-3, we've got about 45,000 cars every 24 hours that run there.
 And the issue I think that Alderman Toomer brought up is one I want to just talk about just a moment. And that's when they're stopped at the traffic lights, and somebody in a car says, please come over, I have something to give you. They go out in the street. It's not in the lane closest to the curb. Oftentimes it's in the inside lane, and the light changes. And now that person is out in the street, and maybe another car coming up that doesn't even see them, very dangerous.
 So I do think we need to figure out how to make that work for the protection and the safety of those that are going to actually get out on the street. Thank you for letting me speak, and again, congratulations, Derek. Alderman Quinones. Yes.
 I'd also like to thank the chief for a job well done and be nominated chief of the year. Rockford's blessed with having a chief like Chief Bergstrom. And I also have a problem with the panhandlers. I'd like to see if we can look into something, if we can make an ordinance or something here that we can move along these panhandlers. And I've seen one got hit by a car in my ward.
 So I don't know what happened to him, but it's very dangerous for the drivers driving in the streets and have to look out for these panhandlers. Thank you. That's it. Robert Adler Thank you. Welcome in Hanley. Hanley K. Hi, thank you. So yeah, I would just also like to say congrats to the Chief and thank you for serving Rockford. And I would like to preorder 10 of those calendars that we're talking about. So whenever you get that, I'll take 10. Thanks. Robert Adler Excellent.
 over here i just wanted to congratulate the chief and and everyone be safe in the weather that's it thank you all right thank you everyone hope you have a wonderful night stay safe and uh to meet anything from city staff uh please reach out to us thank you
 Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our website.