i got 57 xx cunningham road the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of the zoning map amendment from county ag to il light industrial zoning district and a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm and an eye
 I-1, Light Industrial Zoning District at 57XX Cunningham Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 57XX Cunningham Road. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place those two items up for passage, Robert. Thank you. So we have two items before you. Is there any discussion on the two items before you? I'm seeing no discussion. Okay.
 I don't need to call a roll call all those in favor of these two items say aye aye Those opposed item passes and I vote aye. Do I need to vote on that one? Next up. I will move to motions and resolutions Alderman Shirely code and regulation. I have a resolution for the annexation agreement for a 57 XX Cunningham Cunningham Road place that up for passage excellent since this one needs ten and I'll have to vote I'll ask for a roll call I
 Durkee Aye Tunbert Aye Hervey Aye Urbans Aye Hoffman Aye Rose Beach Aye McNeely Aye
 Next up, we have one item or two items under new business for code and regulation committee alderman trelli Thank you your honor. I have an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment from county ag to i1 Light industrial zoning district and a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm
 At 57XX Cunningham Road. Number two, an ordinance approving the annexation of 57XX Cunningham Road. Place those two ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Toonberg. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Mayor McNally. Aye. Aye.
 Ten eyes. Thank you before I ask for a motion to adjourn I just want you to know you received a packet on your desk this evening of letters that the city of Rockford has received Some were sent to me personally some were sent to just council members, but we tried to gather every letter that we received my understanding is
 The bishop of the Rockford Diocese asked in the observer for individuals to send letters to their city council members and provided how to do that. So we want to make sure that you got those. There should be 40 in total and nine of them look like they came from the city of Rockford.
 So I appreciate their participation. Any final Alderman Hervey and then I'll go to Alderman McNeely. Very quick, sort of like under officers reports, garbage pickup is delayed by one day. So for I think most of Southwest, they just like a quadrant, I think it shifts even over to up to Kishwaukee, east of the river, whoever normally would put their garbage out on Tuesday and have pickup
 Can we get a... Okay, we're being paused here, so... Yeah, sorry all of a sudden.
 to interrupt you so collection for tuesday will will be as scheduled so collection will take place tomorrow on tuesday wednesday will be delayed because of the um predicted cold weather to thursday and thursday will be picked up on friday that's what i'm saying but we usually put ours out on tuesday so i don't want people to put it out tomorrow because the pickup on wednesday won't be until thursday okay just so fifth ward residents do not put your garbage out until wednesday
 thank you all right and also we will have our fifth ward meeting um this thursday uh the 31st that'll be at six o'clock at uh district one uh police station so thursday at six thank you thank you and alderman mcneil
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just wanted to make sure that the letters, all the letters we received regarding the building, the church building, that it was entered into record. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. I need discussion. Seeing no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night. Be safe.