I'd like to call the council meeting to order, and invocation and Pledge of Allegiance will be done. Chaplain Jay Johnson from Freedom Baptist Church will be our invocation. Let us pray. Dear Lord, we thank you for the privilege of being able to serve our community. Amen.
 We pray that you will bless tonight's goals, plans, strategies, and values reflect both sides of the river. I pray now that you will bless our mayor, our city council, our police and fire department, our school district, and all citizens that make up this great city called Rockford, Illinois. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Tonight we have four public speakers. I want to remind all four speakers that there is a three-minute limit. Oh, I'm sorry, roll call, see who's here. Here. Here. Here? We've got your agenda. We make a motion to accept the journal. Okay. I'll just go right through your agenda.
 We have extra referrals tonight. So, but the committee chairs are all aware. I would like to have acceptance of the journal. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Okay. As I said before, we have four speakers tonight. I want to remind all four speakers that there is a three-minute limit on each person's time to speak. And the first person is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Proverbs, the 18th chapter, the 24th verse, it says, Show thyself friendly, and there's a friend that will stick closer than a brother. What I want to speak about tonight, a true friend.
 A kind mouth multiply friends, and gracious lips prompt friendly greetings. Let your acquaintance be many, but one of a thousand you'll confide in. When you gain a friend, first test him, and be not too ready to trust him. For one sort of friend is a friend when it suits him, but he will not be with you in time of trouble. Another is a friend who becomes an enemy and tells of the call to your shame.
 Another is a friend, a bone companion who will not be with you when sorrow comes your way. When things go well, he is your other self and loathes it over your service. But if you are brought low, he turns against you and avoids me. Keep away from your enemies. Be on your guard with your friend. A faithful friend is a sturdy shelter.
 He who finds one finds a treasure. A faithful friend is beyond price. No psalm can balance his worth. A faithful friend is a life-saving remedy, such as he who fears God finds. For he who fears God behaves accordingly, and his friend will be like himself. I'm glad you're here tonight, Mr. Jim Ryan.
 I hate that Chief Epperson is not here. I hate that Kenan Davis, the head of recruiting of the police department, is not here. I'm glad you're here tonight, too. I've been wanting to tell every one of you this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. And I also want to congratulate you.
 Mr. Jim Ryan for the new job he got. When they pick you, they pick a good man, a man from God, a walking historian. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Thank you.
 Good evening all the ministers, all the women and the citizens of Rockford and Illinois. Proverbs 27 says, with all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who most deserve attention. Faithful employees
 or volunteer, those who work in the hood. The people who stand behind you, who work hard and help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success. Be sure that in all your work and planning and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most.
 President Donald Trump delivered his inauguration speech on Friday at the U.S. Capitol building. He spoke for about 15 minutes. Riders took fewer trips on Washington, D.C. Metro on Friday morning during President Donald's
 that did during his predecessor inauguration according to the transportation that was provided. As of 11 a.m. ET on Friday, Metro counted 193,000 drivers. Less than half of the 513 it counted in 2009 and far fewer than the 317,000 it did for Obama's second inauguration in 2013.
 On Saturday, Metro counted 207,000 trips before 11 a.m. Also surpassed a few from the previous morning. There was over 1,000 people who marched in Rockford. Also there was a march all over the world in celebration of the diversity and strength of our women and promoting equal rights for all women.
 So let's, let me, I'm going to talk about the ultimate from last week, but instead I want to talk about this weekend. We took 20 of our young females that was marching with the 1,000 women and it was very interesting to see the female pastor embrace
 our young females, our at-risk females that we brought there to this event. This also was the first time for our at-risk females to be standing with the Workers' Party who were standing on Jefferson Street and that was saying the slogans and protesting. But what I want to get at is the fact that
 Winnebago County Chairman Frank Haney talk about diversity and being transparent and us working together. The only way we're going to be able to work together is all the arguments come together and work with us. I'm working with...
 over 149 youth. Right now we started a basketball team with middle school, elementary school, middle school, high school kids in fairgrounds and now we're working on getting cheerleaders. We're looking at getting sponsors to get them gym shoes. They've been able to play at Washington Park, Northwest Community Center,
 King Rock and also Gateway Patriots. The downside is all these other teams have uniforms, but our fairground youth do not have uniforms. These are youth that was once, I won't use the word gangbanger, I say at risk youth, but these are youth that now we have got them from gangbangers so now we get them playing basketball.
 Your three minutes are up. Okay, being that person. Also, it was fun to take you to this world. So if y'all want to help me out, I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Larry Robertson. Is Mr. Robertson here? My words are to rebut some words that were spoken with regard to the Mayor, whether it was his vision or his manner of doing business in Rockford regarding infrastructure, roundabouts, et cetera.
 The four corners of this city cannot be entered without seeing new infrastructure, what looks to me like a class 4 or high level roadways. So whatever the money's been spent on, he has set that foundation. 11th Street and Southeast Quadrant the same way, Alpine Road, 11th Street.
 as I said. So all entries to the city are built on what would be called high density level roads and it's now up to businesses to have the foundation, they have the foundation to step up to start putting in perhaps more high level, high density businesses along these roads to attract not only business but employees as well. At the airport there's a high level facility that will actually add an aviation
 landmark to the city and the goal of this company is to bring in out-of-town, out-of-state workers to Rockford, which is something that hasn't happened a lot since the population has been going the other way. Roundabouts. The one key ingredient missing to lower unnecessary accidents and roundabouts is education. And my example is going from south to north Auburn Street in Maine. If you enter a roundabout on
 You use your left turn signal to let pedestrians know that you're crossing their crosswalk. As you enter into the roundabout, your left turn signal will let a westbound driver know that you're not going east, so he is in check. As you commit to that eastbound lane, you turn, you flip to a right turn signal to continue straight through. That freezes the westbound driver to let him know you're crossing his path.
 That's how to use a roundabout to reduce accidents. Downtown improvement. The boutique hotels, medium wealth, loft attractions, very popular commercial magnets along State Street, et cetera, created to draw pedestrian traffic.
 income and revenue and I have a stake in that. I have a vision for further development that will bring about state tourism, revenue, first floor office space, realizing stellar first impressions on a nationwide basis, you know, if what I'm trying to do takes any traction. Lastly, the brilliant move to build at State Navon
 Provide incentive, security, and development for anything south of Avon. Thank you. Thank you. And our next speaker is Toby Halderman.
 On this coming Wednesday, I hope to see all of you at the grand opening of the District 2 police station on Broadway. And at this time, I would like to thank my alderman, Karen Ellier, for her tireless efforts in making sure that the Turner Building would be purchased and revitalized for use as a police station. This is the first step in cleaning up of Broadway. We have waited long enough.
 I'd like to correct a statement I made in my last speech stating that there was still no street light on Broadway in front of the liquor store. Mr. Vintner told me that there is a street light across the street 60 feet away from the liquor store and that it was pointed at the liquor store.
 While I appreciate the tireless efforts of Mr. Vittner to get a street light put back up on Broadway, which should never have been removed in the first place, thank you, Mr. Mayor, why was it not put up on the pole, which is only 10 feet away from the liquor store versus 60 feet away and across the street? And can you really point a street light at an object other than down?
 What can one person do? Hey Chuck, turn up the volume. This one's for you. I'm sure everyone here has heard about the link fraud bust on Broadway. Think back to a speech I gave over a year and a half ago. Let me take you back into the Wayback Machine to June 2015. Chief Epperson was at our neighborhood watch meeting. He was asked about the link fraud that was happening on Broadway. I'm paraphrasing here.
 He tried to pass the buck, saying that it's the Department of Agriculture you have to tell your complaints to, as the Rockford Police Department doesn't have resources to go after those criminal enterprises. Does this sound familiar to you? Let me continue. Thank you.
 Chief Epperson just told us that the Rockford Police Department doesn't have the resources to go after criminal activity in the city of Rockford. So here's what happens when someone sells their link for cash. They go to the liquor store, they go to the drug house, they pick up a prostitute, they spend a month's worth of link money in a week. They now have three weeks to go before the government resupplies their card.
 What happens after that? Aggressive panhandling, purse snatching, robberies, burglaries, carjackings, home invasions, murder. So when all of this crime happens, what is the Rockford Police Department doing? They are spending resources to go after criminal activity. Approximately one to two weeks after I called Chief Epperson out in these chambers, he had one of his lieutenants call me about certain stores on Broadway where I knew illegal activity was taking place.
 And result, the bust on Broadway. So you tell me, what can one person do? I will not be silent. I will be heard. And thanks to all law enforcement for their undying effort to clean up Broadway. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we'll have petitions and communications. Alderman Durkin. Thank you. I have four items. One is for our community and economic development department. One is for the museum. Two is for the museum.
 Second is a memorandum from the Keeper of the Bond and the Governor of the City of Rockford, on Northland's base. Opposed to development agreement with the First Midwest Group. Also, backslash detail note, including the committee at that time, West Engineering Operations Manager regarding complete street resolution of support. Codes and regs. Ralph Alderman Shirely regarding the massage establishment license requirements.
 The second is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, assistant city attorney regarding the sale of four city-owned vacant lots located at 215 Irving Avenue, 306 North Hinkley Avenue, 209 North Independence Avenue, and 2124 Andrew Street. The third is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, zoning and land use administrator regarding Platte number 12 of the Wesley Willows Retirement Cottages subdivision.
 And the fourth memorandum is from Angela Hammer, Assistant City Attorney, regarding review of animal control services. All four of those items will be referred to codes of regs, Your Honor. Thank you. Finance and Personnel, I'll move back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. The first is a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director regarding Head Start Program Governance Monthly Review of Documents.
 Second is a memorandum from George Davis, Executive Director of Human Services Department, regarding Head Start governance orientation. And the third is a memorandum from Carrie Echolin, Finance Director, regarding the parking system. These items will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Legislative Lobby Committee.
 My name is Greg. I'm the finance director regarding the renewal of the lobbying agreement with McGuire Woods Consulting and this would be referred to the Legislative Lobbying Committee. Just one more item. Next Monday, we will have a Legislative Lobbying Committee meeting and our lobbyist from McGuire Woods Consulting, Mike Cassidy, plans on being here, actually coming to Rockford that night. So hopefully I'll get that. Next Monday, which would be the 30th. Yes, on January 3rd.
 We can do it during normal committee time starting at 5.30. Thank you. Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Chairman. I have a referral to the Finance and Personnel Committee regarding a proposal to address a 2017 budget deficit. Thank you. New committee reports. Alderman Durkee. Thank you. We have one item that I'd like to suspend rules on. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Aye.
 Discussion. This is under Roman numeral 4A. Planning and Development Committee recommends approval of the Rockford Area Economic Development Council, also known as RADEC, the 2017 to 2018 Contract for Service Agreement, and the interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Please set up for passage. Roll call? Aye. Aye. That passes. Discussion? Is there discussion now? Later. Okay. Okay.
 Codes and regs committee? B1 through 7, I move to suspend the rules. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Your Honor, I place Roman numeral 4B1 through 7 up for passage. Discussion? Is there any discussion? Alderman Harvey? Just a question. Did any of the aldermen of any of the wards where these are impacted have any objections to the parking? No.
 Okay, just one. No, there was not at our committee meeting last week. Yeah, I didn't know who all was there. I can't remember that far. Alderman Beach. I recommend that we send B1 back to traffic. Is there a second? Second. Okay, it's been the automatic thing, correct? I don't know. I think if we're gonna send it back, we need to vote on it, yeah.
 Would we have to do a vote on that? I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Go back. Okay. No, I'm sorry, that's just for layover. Yeah. So we'd have to vote on it. Okay. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? So number one will be sent back to committee. Thank you. And the rest are up, two through seven are up for vote. That's correct. Roll call, please. Aye. Thank you.
 No on 4, aye on the rest. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. So they all pass. Thank you. Plans and personnel? Thank you. Under Roman numeral 4C, items 1 and 2, ask for suspension of rules.
 There's been a motion for suspension of rules. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? I would place them up for passage. Discussion on any of those? Seeing there's no discussion, we take a roll call. Fridley? Aye. Aye. Aye. Shearer? Aye. So it passes. Next, we have motions and resolutions.
 Officers are here. Oh, that's where I get to speak, right? Thank you. Thank you. I want to bring up that we, in my ward, there was another shooting, 10 shots at a house.
 I am greatly concerned. I'm the ninth ward. We're 14 wards here. We've had shootings in all of our wards. I would ask if there was anyone... I cannot believe that there is a shooting or any type of illegal activity that at least one or two people do not know who was involved or what... why it was there or why it happened. I am asking the public to please contact
 Crime Stoppers, contact the non-emergency number for the police department. Our police can only do so much. This happened at 5 o'clock Saturday and there were a police car, there were four cars there within four, within seven minutes. You can't ask for any faster than that. But,
 We don't have the license plates of this car. I don't know that we do or not. I am not privy to that. But there has to be someone that knows who did the shooting, what car they drove, where they were, and where they are now. And until these people in the public come forward, our police need that help, and our citizens do too. Thank you. Anyone else? Alderman Otto. Thank you, Your Honor. Shooting on Saturday.
 And it's disheartening. But I want to thank the Rockford police, and I believe that the Winnebago County Sheriff, too, was involved in a couple of instances throughout the city of Rockford over the weekend. And I want to thank both the entities for their hard work and their diligence. But like Alderman Newberg said, if people don't start talking, our police cannot.
 catch the people who are creating this disruption in our neighborhoods. They're intimidating our residents. They're making people afraid to go out. We should not have to live in fear for a few. And as Chief O'Shea said before, you can report it through an email to him if you feel comfortable. Crime stoppers, call him. Just do it. We've gotta make it stop. Summer's coming.
 So I just want to say thank you again to Chief O'Shea and the Rockford Police for all their hard work.
 Chief O'Shea? One thing I want to throw out there is, I literally have had three different people email me or call me in the last week, citizens, and I truly appreciate them reaching out. So the message is getting out there. People are starting to step up and become involved. So to the public that is watching, it's starting to work in literally three different people. So I truly appreciate them reaching out, and it's helped us in some of our cases. So just keep spreading the word. Keep asking people to keep calling us.
 Alderman Hervey? Just a note for Fifth Ward residents, we will have our, resume our monthly Fifth Ward meetings this Thursday at 6 p.m. We're going to be meeting at Montague Branch Library. And I want just on a sort of a personal note, one of our long-time Fifth Ward residents, Robert Bob Anthony, passed away a couple weeks ago.
 Bob's family, longtime Rockford residents, Bob was just the dearest guy.
 had everybody sign in, passed out all my ward information. I'm not sure how I'm gonna make it through this meeting, but I did want to make sure that people knew that we did lose Bob. So we're gonna have, at some point, some kind of, I don't know whether we'll do a brick at the Ethnic Heritage Museum or a tree at Clem or somewhere in the city, but we will do something to commemorate Bob
 a number of residents have called and asked me if we could do something. Not that he's more important or anybody is elevated above any other person, but Bob was special.
 his garden, he called it farming. He said, I'll farm back behind my house. And he took fresh vegetables. You would just look on your porch and there would be a bag of vegetables. And he did those for people. So I did want people to know that we lost Bob. But we will have our meeting at 6. Carla Redd, who is our District 1 Commander, is going to be there and talk with us about the progress on the new station.
 Around August, September, Mr. Ryan? August. That station will be up and running, and that will make all three. Is that correct? Yes. It will make all three. And Carla's role, and since we're talking about crime, back on some of the things that we can do to keep it in check in the Fifth Ward. All right.
 We'll keep hoping. We have our shootings. We have our druggies. We've got huge issues, too. But the police department, fire everybody. Code enforcement, Mr. Cagnoni's area. If you keep them all involved, I'm not saying it's going to eliminate it, but it certainly makes it better. Thanks. Alderman Almey. Okay.
 I just would like to personally invite everyone to come Wednesday to the ribbon cutting for Turner School, the Geo-Policing Station. It really is a beautiful historic renovation of an old school, and it'll be an opportunity to get a tour of the whole place before they actually move in. So it'll probably, I will have to say that it will be the proudest moment
 of my 10-year political career, I would say this is the big highlight for me right now is getting that police station open. So I'm really excited about it and would like to see everyone there. Secondly, I want to
 Thank everyone who came out for the Women's March. I was there. I think there was at least 2,000 people there. Probably one of the biggest marches that Rockford has ever seen. And it was a really good time. And it was very uplifting and strengthening and bonding to see not only my friends, but not only my girlfriends, but lots of men there too. It was a good time. So thank you, everyone, for coming out for that.
 Lastly, I would like to recognize that we lost Frank Shear.
 this past week and I worked for him, one of my first jobs. When I moved back to Rockford in the 90s, I had, I worked for Frank Shear, so it was a big part of who, he made me who I am, he taught me how to stand up for myself. I learned if you can stand up to Frank Shear, you can stand up to anybody. But he was a tireless advocate of not only journalism, but the environment,
 and live music. So we have a lot in common and I'll miss them. Alderman McNeony. Mayor Pro Tem. I join with my colleague regarding Frank Shear and Mr. Anthony wishing the very best to their families, praying that God keep and strengthen them as they go through this. I would like to make a comment regarding Mr. Anthony.
 All the things that Autumn and Herbie said are certainly true. He was just a great guy. He would put a smile on your face, at least a smile on my face whenever I've seen him. Always had something nice to say, always wanting a big hug. Certainly involved with the community, definitely involved with his church, Liberty Baptist Church. He's a great guy. He retired from Chrysler, I believe beyond a 30-year period.
 My mom worked with him at Chrysler and they got along pretty well. They both were into the Bible and they'd have their arguments, disagreements with it. He was just a great guy and I certainly will miss him along with several people within the community, a lot of people within the community. So I appreciate Alderman Hervey saying that they're going to do something to recognize him
 He I don't know how many years he worked as a crossing guard for the kids for years He was just a great guy and so he will be missed and I pray that God be with him and his family I missed the March here in Rockford, but I think that's great. I'm glad to know that
 We had a march and we had so many participants. I think it's significant for any city, for the residents to get involved and become a part of government. I think that in this country, that has dwindled over the centuries. And so I was pleased to find that out about Rockford. However, I had already signed up for Chicago and I went to the Chicago event.
 It was just massive. It was so many people there in Chicago that where we started at, at the stage, we never got a chance to march because there were so many people. Michigan Avenue and the side streets were all full, so the marching route, you couldn't get through.
 So it was great, the L trains, the subway. There were so many people coming to the city that they couldn't get there fast enough, and when they did get there, everything was just crowded. So I think that what happened here in this city and in Chicago and throughout the world says a lot about us as human beings. We're better than some people would like.
 to say about us. I think overall, we have very good hearts and are trying to do the best, not just for ourselves, but for all of us. We're not that selfish.
 And finally, Mr. Ryan, I wasn't here last week, but I do know that an announcement was made, and I wish you the very best. I've enjoyed working with you for as long as I've been here. I think we must have started approximately the same time.
 I think you have been, I think you were excellent in public works and you certainly have been excellent as city administrator. I know that you'll do well at Rock Valley, not just at Rock Valley, but anywhere you decide to go. I wish you and your family, your mom, your children, I wish you all the very best. Thank you. Alderman Thompson, Kelly. Well, I guess I have to give my thanks as well.
 Friday at 5 o'clock, Pastor Flanagan at Jerusalem Baptist Church also had a walk from Clines Avenue down West State Street, down Central Avenue to Auburn Street. And in this walk, it was members of his congregation, and they carried a casket. And the theme of it was, let's not bury our children, let's bury the crime.
 It was a wonderful walk. It was nice members from the congregation. I want to give a special thanks to District 1 and our police department. Unfortunately, I gave out before we got to Auburn Street.
 And I did have an officer lock me in the back of the car, but it was a wonderful walk. And I do appreciate District 1 community service officers for the work and the extra work that they put into things that are happening in the community with our neighborhood watch groups. But because without them, our neighborhood watch groups would be lost in accomplishing the goals that they set for themselves. Thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm involved with an event called the Illinois Snow Sculpting Competition and this is the 31st annual year for that event. It's been a challenge in years like this where there's not much snow and it's pretty warm out but the Park District was able to get some snow making machines out of Sinisepe
 made some snow before it warmed up. We were supposed to have the event last week, but then because of the warm temperatures, decided to postpone it a week and just leave the blocks covered.
 tarps and hopefully they would make it through the warm up and they have. So we're excited that starting Wednesday the competition will begin. Probably won't see much activity on Wednesday because it's still going to be one more warmer day, but then Thursday, Friday and Saturday the weather is looking really great for carving snow. I know people who like warm weather have contrary opinion of that.
 We just hope to have cold weather maybe just for a week or two so we can get the sculptures done, have them stick around for a while so people can drive through the park or walk through the park and see them. So Saturday the competition will be done at 10 a.m. And people can go through the park on Saturday between 8.30 and 11 to vote for people's choice.
 And then the winners will be announced that afternoon. So it's just one of the favorite things I do every year. It's so fun to be out there with these sculptors. They're so talented. And they all have a great time working together and just doing what they do and turning these huge massive blocks of snow into just really gorgeous pieces of art.
 So I encourage people to come out and enjoy. We expect, with this weather, I would expect at least 30,000 spectators to go through the park while the sculptures are there. And it's something to be proud about, being here in Rockford with, a lot of times the negative news, but this is something that we host. We are the Illinois competition, and the winner will go on to the Nationals next year. So hope you guys can come out and check it out.
 Oh, and just to point out, too, that this event came to Rockford partly because of our colleague, Alderman Frank Beach, who he and a couple of friends realized the opportunity to bring it here, and they were able to get it done. So he's been involved with it ever since then, too. Motions and resolutions? Okay. Okay.
 The request by Zion Development Corporation for forgiveness of a tax increment financing loan. I'm properly located at 528 7th Street. Place that up for passage. Is there a second? There's been a motion and a second. Discussion? Alderman Hervey. With regard to the...
 the forgiveness of the repayment. Is it contingent upon an acceptable plan for the commercial structure? Which is my understanding is that by forgiving the loan, they will be able to get a private loan to cover the renovation for
 I don't know if it's on the ground floor. I'm just going to say the commercial portion of the building. What are the safeguards that we have that we're not forgiving this and there's not adequate progress on a year-to-year basis or for whatever, or there's not some benchmarks to guarantee that...
 you know, we're going to see some development that's going to give us some tax return on that property. And does it have to be tax-producing? My concern is I don't want people, I know the upstairs is because it's rental, but I don't want them to turn that over to a not-for-profit that's going to apply for tax-exempt status, and we've given away TIF funds. Alderman Cagnoni? I'm sorry, Alderman, Mr. Cagnoni? Yes.
 Thank you. It is a conditional forgiveness that requires the dollars to be reinvested into the property. You know, one, the design development needs to identify
 what the commercial space is gonna be. They need to provide a commitment letter to the city as well as a final pro forma for staff to review and approval. And then lastly, the work does need to be completed within 12 months. So the idea is if this loan is forgiven, then
 It allows the dollars to be reinvested in the property and get the ground floor activated. There is not a condition of approval that requires it to be a for-profit business or a not-for-profit business, but it would need to conform with our ordinance. Okay, thank you. All in favor? Mailey? Thank you, Madam Mayor Pro Tem. I just wanted to know the dollar amount. I forgot what the dollar amount. $180,000. Thank you.
 I have a question. If this is forgiven and these are set up, if there's a 12, did you say 12 months? It has to be completed within 12 months? That is correct. Okay, we've forgiven this loan. Maybe I'm not understanding it, but we forgive this loan. If this doesn't come to fruition, what's our next step?
 If they don't satisfy the four conditions, then the loan will not be forgiven.
 outstanding $180,000 would be due to the city. What this allows Zion Development to do is have a general understanding and agreement with the city so that they can advance forward efforts to redevelop that first floor. But that would be automatic. There wouldn't have to be any action by the council or the city to have it reinstated if it doesn't go by what they've said. Correct. Thank you. Any other questions? Roll call, please.
 I matter passes there are no codes and regs financing personnel committee under under Roman row six item see one place upper passage questions there discussion having no discussion there's a roll call matter passes new business
 Planning and development, please. Thank you. Under Roman numeral 7A on number 1, this is an ordinance approving the Rockford Area Economic Development Council, also known as RADAC, their 2017 to 2018 contract service agreement. I'd like to first suspend rules on this item. Then a motion and a second. Roll call for approval. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. All those opposed? Discussion. Rules are suspended.
 Now discussion matter up for passage. Thank you. I'd like to place this up for passage now discussion Anyone that has okay, we'll do a roll call please. Hi No No, I Code and regulation place. Thank you your honor under Roman numeral 7b 2 through 6. I move you suspend the rules and
 Then a motion and a second all those in favor say aye aye All those opposed. Thank you your honor. I place 7 B 2 through 2 through 6 up for passage Discussion No with no discussion would you call the roll please Hi
 Yeah, yeah, hold on. Beach, Ellier, Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Against 2 through 6, 13. Matters to pass. Thank you. Finance and personnel, please. Your Honor, under Roman numeral 7C, item 1, I ask for suspension of rules. Second. Spent a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed?
 Discussion? I would place that up for passage. Discussion? Roll call. Jersey. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Weber. Aye. Aye. Moose-Fearley. Matter passes. Session this evening to discuss pending litigation matters. Second. Finished. Motion and a second to go into closed session. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Roll call. Aye. Sorry. Roll call.
 I know I I I we will reconvene in closed session