Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, February 7th, 2022. This evening, we are fortunate that we have Judy Moe from the Baha'i Center of Rockford to provide us with an invocation. And there's a microphone. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Oh, there we go. Can you hear me now? Absolutely.
 Baha'u'llah, the founder of the Baha'i Faith, states that the purpose for which mortal men have from utter nothingness stepped into the realm of being is that they may work for the betterment of the world and live together in concord and harmony. Let us pray to the Almighty.
 to guide our city and its elected officials and appointed officials that we may keep this call, which has been the purpose that all of God's messengers have taught us in our minds and hearts, that they may continue to work for the betterment of our city and our world. Guide them in this work, O God, to bring equity to all the members of our community.
 Guide them to find ways to give our young citizens a sense of purpose in their lives so that they can work for the betterment of society as well. Dear Lord, please bless the efforts our city is making to engage our youth in acts of service and purpose. I'll end with this Baha'i prayer. It's an inspired prayer for youth. O Lord, make our youth radiant and confer thy bounty upon them.
 bestow upon them knowledge, grant them strength at the break of every morn, and guide them within the shelter of thy protection, so that they may be freed from error, may devote themselves to the service of thy world, may guide the wayward, lead the hapless, free the captives, and awaken the heedless, that all may be blessed with thy remembrance and praise. Thou art the mighty and the powerful. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Judy, for the invocation and also just thank you for the volunteer efforts that you've been providing at West Middle School. It's appreciated. Thank you. Next, we will move. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Lohlebin. Here. Kuhnberg. Here. Frost.
 Tarina Pratty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Keonis Meeks McNeely and Bonnie 11 present that was 11 present. Thank you Okay, thank you. We have no proclamations this evening. So we'll move right into petitions and communications We'll go to Alderwoman Meeks for planning and development committee. Thank you your honor. I
 Under Planning and Development Committee, item A, under number 1, memorandum from Andrea Henricks, Acting Housing and Program Manager regarding the second amended and restated lease agreement between the City of Rockford Community and Economic Development Department and Logwood Zion Apartments for the parking lot located at 1041 East State Street, a.k.a. Parking Lot Z, referred to Planning and Development.
 Committee and we have item two memorandum from Todd Cagnone City Administrator regarding the forward for fun initiative Refer to the Planning and Development Committee And then we have some new ones item number three Please refer a proposed TIF redevelopment agreement for the redevelopment of 502 Cedar Street and
 south winnebago street cedar street cedar street 600 cedar street 608 cedar street 624 cedar street 628 cedar street and 642 cedar street to planning and development and then item number four please refer proposed tiff redevelopment agreement for the redevelopment of 5494 east state street to planning and development thank you thank you
 Next, we'll go to Alderman Rose for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. We have five items. Number one is a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 4650, 4680, 47XX, 48XX,
 48, 48, and 49 XX South Main Street, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 2 is a Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on February 15, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 28, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Item three is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board Agenda for the meeting to be held on February 15th, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 28th, 2022, referred to codes and regulations. Item four is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager for permits and special events regarding upcoming special events, which include St. Patrick's Day Parade. My favorite.
 Trucks and Tunes, Black History Celebration Bonfire, and Over the Edge for Girl Scouts referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And item five is a Traffic Commission's agenda for a meeting to be held on February 9th, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 14th, 2022 referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up we'll go to Alderman Loggeman for Finance and Personnel Committee.
 thank you mayor six items number one memorandum from carrie hagerty finance director regarding the line of credit extension with the associated bank for the finance personnel committee number two memorandum from jennifer cachapaglia mayor's office of domestic and community violence prevention regarding an agreement with winnebago county in the 17th judicial circuit courts justice for placement of legal advocate through the justice for families grant for the finance committee
 Item number three, memorandum from Jennifer Cacciapaglia, Mayor's Office of Domestic and Community Violence Prevention regarding a data service agreement with Region 1 Planning Council referred to Finance Personnel Committee. Item number four, memorandum from Jennifer Cacciapaglia, Mayor's Office of Domestic and Community Violence Prevention regarding a Children's Home and Aid Sub-Awardee Agreement number 921633, R3 grant award referred to Finance Personnel Committee.
 Item number five, memorandum from Jennifer Cacciapaglia, Mayor's Office of Domestic and Community Violence Prevention, regarding an agreement with Winnebago County and the 17th Judicial Circuit Courts for placement of abuse and later life advocate through the enhanced training and services to end abuse in later life program grant for the Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number six, memorandum from Carrie Hagerty, Finance Director, regarding...
 An update to the 2022 fee schedule for ambulance transport fees referred to finance and personnel. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman.
 Next up, we will have our public speakers. Just want to have a reminder to all of our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of council chambers. As you have three minutes to speak and address city council. Once you hear this obnoxious cell phone ring, I'd ask that you close your comments. Our first speaker this evening is Peter Flaveras. It's Peter Flaveras with us.
 All right, we can come back to Peter. Next public speaker is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. Thank you, Reverend, and just a reminder that all public speakers are provided three minutes to address city council. Thank you. The Bible. Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write, I know thy works and thy patience. Thou canst not bear them which are evil. And thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and found that they are not.
 has found that they are liars. Chris Wray, who is the FBI director, said this last week, there is just no country that presents a broader threat to our ideas, innovation and economic security than China. Yet our business people in the name of profits acquire everything from coronavirus vaccines to digital prowess and more. This is not only dangerous, but it's very dumb.
 Our organization working with ministers for manufacturing, did you all have received some limited information and why we want to acquire Church School to train, to aid in reshoring and other situations that will mitigate against this economic suicide. West Side Rockford can be part of this renaissance, especially with the $5 billion promised by President Biden on the 21st of January in Advanced Manufacturing and Renovation Act.
 Yet, Rockford leadership, whether it's political or economic, seems oblivious to this, focusing on domestic violence instead of the root cause of the violence, which is poverty. Hear this. This is from a lady who grew up on the south side of Chicago, as I do.
 She's a psychologist. The Great Cities Institute report released this month examined data from Chicago, New York, and Los Angeles and suggests that spikes in violence in Chicago can be in part explained by youth joblessness.
 In 2014 and 2015, Chicago had the highest total percent, 42%, of 20 to 24-year-olds who were out of work and out of school. Chicago also had the highest percentage of black 16 to 19-year-olds at more than 60% who were out of work and out of school. Communities with high jobless rates are primarily on the predominantly black south and west sides of Chicago. The report includes testimony of youth in
 who commented, jobs solve violence. If you are busy working, you don't have time for violence. Or if you want to save lives, you want to see a difference, give these teens jobs. I conclude with these words from the theme song of the civil rights movie. We'll walk hand in hand. We'll walk hand in hand. We'll walk hand in hand someday. Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe we'll walk hand in hand someday.
 Thank you. Our next public speaker is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and citizens of Rockville, Illinois, but mainly those who are watching the camera. Matthew 5, verses 43 through 48. Love for an enemy. You have heard that it was said, love your neighbor and hate your enemy.
 But God say, tell you, love your enemy and pray for those who prosecute you that you may be the children of your father in heaven. He calls his son to rise on the evil and the good and send rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. Back in August of 20th, 2019, Governor J.B. Pritchard stated that those who do not get a vaccination, you are my enemy. So I ask you here at City Hall.
 the haves and the have nots, if we do not get the vaccine, are we your enemy? Go on, this is election year and the only time we see some of our elected officials is before the election and after the election and then they make false promises. Those that are elected, we never see them no more again until the actual election or until the next time elections come around. Everything I talk about, the truth came to the light.
 Back in 2019, I asked the question, how many people died from taking the vaccine? What is the side effects of the vaccine? How many people still got sick from taking the vaccine? Now here it is two years later, they're talking about that. Thanks to you, you have given me the power, the respect, and the trust and the love that I get from the people in the community. Just on my Facebook page, I have 4,000 viewers. What are you good at?
 and bad at. Good at? They say you are someone who always speak from the heart and stand up for the truth. You are not one to lie to the people you love because you hate hiding things from them. You have an unstoppable voice for justice. What I'm bad at? I'm
 I thought it was good that you are honest. You are sometimes too brutal and unapologetic about it. You never filter your words. You only speak your mind without hesitation. We need to be able to come together to work out our differences.
 Just like the other two weeks ago, I had a conversation with Tom McNamara's sister. Even though we were able to disagree to agree, we still came up with the same thing. We still didn't hate each other. We still were able to get along. Moving right along, just recently ruled that Governor J.P. Pritzker's Corona 19 mask mandate was authorized illegal, not only here in Illinois, in Texas,
 california other states everyone that spoke up or had a lawsuit against the mandate and the propaganda wearing the mask of taking the vaccine they have won i want to just jump from there and talk about black history month this past friday we are at the uaw uh center uh uh
 The UAW factory, we had over 50 kids to show up. But what my biggest problem is, my biggest concern is, a lot of our kids don't know our history. So when we ask them or talk to them about our history. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Yeah. Is Peter Flaveras with us? I don't see him. So we'll move on to new committee reports. We have nothing under plan and development. So we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for outdoor storage of towed passenger vehicles up to a full-size work van and trucks in an I-2 General Industrial Zoning District at 622 Tay Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 2, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval.
 for a variation to reduce the rear yard setback from 30 feet to 70 feet, and item B, variation to allow the existing six foot front yard setback to continue along West Gateway Parkway for 17 feet by 18 feet, house addition in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 828 Eastgate Parkway. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Item 3, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for a modification of an existing liquor license to include karaoke nights, comedy nights, open mic nights, and live entertainment to include DJs in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 1201 Broadway. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 4, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area, and the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 206 West State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 5, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendations of a denial for modification of an existing liquor license to allow video gaming terminals at a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 505 to 507 East State Street.
 Item 6, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation for approval of the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and a denial for video gaming terminals in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 3031 and 3035 North Rockton Avenue. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you.
 Item 7, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant. The committee recommends approval for B, video gaming terminals, thus reversing the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation for denial in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 4344 Sandy Hollow Road, subject to conditions...
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item eight, committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the 2022 fee schedule for video game terminal stickers. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item nine, the committee recommends approval of the amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford Public School District 205 for police services. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And item 10, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Housing Authority for police services. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Alderman Rose. We have 10 items before us. Is there any discussion? Alderman Logman. Thank you, Mayor. I have an amendment for item number two. Okay. Thank you.
 I move to amend the committee report under numeral six unfinished business committee reports laid over B, code and regulation committee item number one to reflect reversing the zoning board of appeals in Nile of A, variation to increase the maximum fence permitted in the front yard from four feet to eight feet four inches for the existing fence along 19th Street, and B, a variation to increase the maximum fence height.
 permitted in the side yard from 6 feet to 8 feet 10 inches for the existing fence along the east property line and an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 2303 16th Avenue. The amendment should include that the approval of the variations are per the existing fence in Exhibit F.
 approval of the variations are based on the following findings. One, because of the particular physical surrounding shape or topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out. Number two, the conditions upon which a petition... Am I a little early? I think you're a touch early. So that is going to be coming to us...
 Under Roman numeral six, B1, I believe. I was excited. Sorry, Mayor. I wish Alderman Frost was here because he's the only one who gets more excited than you about fences. But no. All right. So thank you. We'll come right back to you on that. So we have 10 items. Before us is our discussion on those 10 items. Alderman Beach.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I didn't get a clear answer regarding both of these last week about whether it covers all of our costs for our police department to these agencies, pensions, et cetera, et cetera. I just wanted to know whether. So your question then is relating to items 9 and 10. 9 and 10, yes. Should that go to finance or Chief Red? For items number 9 and 10, does it cover the city of Rockford's full cost is the question. The full cost?
 Yes, Alderman Beach has a question. If items number 9 and 10, the agreements that we have with RHA and Rockford Public School, does that cover the city of Rockford's full cost of our officers? So with the school district, the officers are assigned there for roughly nine months.
 So we pick the officers up during the summertime, but the hours that they work within the school district, they are fully covered during that time. And the same thing for RHA, but the RHA officers are full of time. So they cover everything with the Rockford Housing Authority officers. So we share a portion of the Rockford Public School officers' salary, benefits, et cetera. They have the brunt of it with nine months of it being paid. We share the other piece. Okay.
 RHA, it's fully engulfed in that. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Good question. Other questions? Alderman Rose. For item seven, the video gaming terminal for the corn beef factory, just for the record, I had asked, I think it was last week or two weeks ago, do their Chicago operations have video gaming terminals? Yes.
 So our staff has looked into that. They do not have video game terminals in their Chicago sites. Okay. Are you done? Yeah, yeah. Sorry. Alderman Tunberg. Thanks, Mayor. Could I find out when the last time that we voted to give VGTs to
 to an establishment that we're asking that did not have them already. So for instance, if they were going from three to four or three to five or five to six, ones that didn't have it at all, when was the last time we granted any ballpark? I don't know specifically, but I do recall we just approved not too long ago, requests for VGTs on Auburn Street
 I believe that's the one that comes to my head. I think that was the last one that we approved. Yeah, to recall, Alderwoman Wilkins. The Euro House. Euro House. And they went from zero to three? Two. Two. And that was probably two, three months ago? Maybe longer? Yeah. Maybe four or five months ago, somewhere in there? I'll find it. Okay. You say five months? Yeah. Okay.
 Could I make a motion? Okay, do I have to wait on that to make a motion? We're actually, it is a proper time on that item to make a motion. Could I make a motion to lay over number seven, item B? So item seven comes all together. So there is an A and a B that was just simply to delineate the two different items there, but it is all one liquor license and those VGTs come with it.
 Oh, no, I'm not. I'm sorry not seven stand correct. It's Monday reminder. So It is item number five Motion so we have a motion to lay over item number five. Is there a second? We have a motion a second. So item five has been laid over. I
 Okay. Any other comments, discussion about any of the now nine items before you? Any discussion on these nine items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Logerman. Abstain on nine. Toomber. Tarina. Aye. Prati. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Abstain on the aye and no on number seven. I'm sorry, no on number seven. Correct. Beach. Aye.
 6 is all 1. So no on the stretch? Keonis? Connie? So we have eyes on number 9, 3 abstain. We have on number 7 we have 10 eyes, 1 no. On number 6 we have 9 eyes, I'm sorry, 10 eyes, 1 no. And on number 7 we have 10 eyes, 1 no. And what did we have on number 9? On number 9 we had 6 eyes and 3 abstain.
 so we have to we're missing two votes there right would have been is that eight and three eight yeah perfect no that's perfect all right thank you so those items do uh advance so next uh we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman logeman
 uh for finance and personnel mayor we have three items number one committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of seven million seven hundred sixty six thousand seven hundred forty dollars and ten cents is approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting on january 24th 2022
 Item number two, committee recommends the approval of the candidate referral incentive program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number three, committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request for 2603 Hampton Court to $0 as the property is in compliance. The current owner of the property abated all outstanding violations and is living at the property. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. So we have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Yes.
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just one comment on item number three on Hampton Court. Apparently that this property fell into disrepair and was being fined because it was being held by a bank. Is that correct? The bank was in charge of the property at the time. Was it foreclosure? The bank didn't own the property. I don't recall off the top of my head all the fines and violations and when they occurred.
 Yeah, I'm I've worked with one of the individuals involved. I believe it was I I don't know if it got exacerbated with the bank only but I believe it was also the previous owner But alderman to Merck, did you have a mayor? You are correct? It is it is a new owner on this that is asking for those reductions So that absolutely a new owner, but I think alderman Durkee's question was where was it when it got the violation was Regents Bank. I
 Yeah, I can look into that. The only comment I have is that this is now, I think, Associated Bank was holding some of these properties. So it looks like banks with these zombie mortgages are holding these properties, letting them go into disrepair, getting these fines. We do have a good owner, and I'm not opposed to the fine reduction at all. But sooner or later, I don't know what we need to do, create a wall of shame?
 What you mean with these banks that are doing this to our town? So this is another bank Regents Bank if you bank at Regents Bank don't bank there anymore because they're ruining our town So it needs to be said I have no idea why they would let a property do this and cause blight in our town Because it causes blight on their name. So I don't know I I
 It's disturbing to me. I mean, I'm sure the bank has plenty of dough to keep this up, but I am absolutely not opposed to it. I'm glad we have an owner and somebody responsible to take care of the property other than Regents Bank. Couldn't agree more. Other comments on those three items? Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Mogelman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Tarina? Taranti? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye.
 Rose? Aye. Beech? Aye. Keonis? Meeks? Bowning? Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. We'll move to unfinished business. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose?
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals denial of a variation to increase the maximum fence height permitted in the front yard from 4 feet to 8 feet 4 inches for the existing fence along 19th Street and be a variation to increase the maximum fence height permitted in the side yard from 6 feet to 8 feet 10 inches for the existing fence along the east property line in an R1 single-family residential zoning district.
 at 2303 16th Avenue. Item two, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for body art services in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3800 East State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Alderman Rose. So, council, we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on the two items? I'm gonna go back to Alderman Logman. Amendment no.
 I move to amend the
 Committee report under numeral six unfinished business committee reports laid over B code and regulation committee item number one to reflect reversing the zoning board of appeals. Dial of a a variation to increase the maximum fence height permitted in the front yard from four feet to eight feet four inches for the existing fence along 19th street. And B variation to increase the maximum fence height permitted in the side yard from six feet to eight feet ten inches for the existing fence along the east property in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 2303 16th Avenue.
 The amendment should include that approval of the variations are per the existing fence in Exhibit F. Approval of the variations are based on the following findings. One, because of the particular physical surrounding shape or topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out. Two, the conditions upon which a petition for this variation is based are uniquely...
 sorry are unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not applicable generally to other property within the same zoning classification three the value of this
 the purpose of this variation is not based exclusively upon a desire to increase the value or income potential of the property for the alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this ordinance and has not been created by any persons presently having an interest in the property or by any predecessor in title five the granting of this variation will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located six the proposed variation
 will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of the public streets or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or impair the property values within the neighborhood 7 the proposed variation does not comply with the spirit and intent of restrictions imposed by this ordinance I place the item as amended up for pass it. Oh motion requires a second. So we have a motion We have a second
 is there any discussion on that motion or on that amendment we'll just do a vote simply on that amendment having no discussion can do all those in favor of the amendment say aye aye those opposed same sign okay so now we have two items before you item one has now been amended any discussion on the two items before you no discussion clerk could you please call the roll
 Turkey. Aye. Loganman. Aye. Toonbert. Aye. Cherina. Pratty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Deitch. Aye. Keonis. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Donny. Aye. It's 12 ayes. 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next, we have officers' reports. Any reports? Alderman Rose. Just wanted to say congratulations to Fred Van Vliet on Rockford's first NBA All-Star appearance coming up. It's quite an accomplishment of that young man, and hopefully an inspiration to young people to bet on themselves. Heck of a week for someone from Rockford, an All-Star player.
 entering three-point contests getting engaged in his document men or he comes out on the 16th or something all announced in this last Seven days not a bad seven days Other woman Trina I like your shirt and you are up. Oh
 That's actually what I was going to talk about. I got this shirt yesterday from the Ethnic Heritage Museum, so I'm very proud to wear it. I think it's a really special little gem in my ward, but just for the entire community to take advantage of. But they just opened a new exhibit for Black History Month, which is about the Black Panthers.
 history about the organization and also just their connection to Rockford. So I just want to encourage everyone to check the museum out. Just so people know, there's a ton of different exhibits there and cultures that are represented from Italy to Ireland, Poland. So just if you're ever in the area, check it out. They are only open on Sundays, so they kind of have limited hours. But it's nice because there's usually not a big line. You need to kind of have the place to yourself and you can really...
 kind of take your time and really see things up close and personally without kind of worrying about trying to get out of somebody's way so it's always just a fun time so i just wanted to shout out to uh ethnic heritage heritage museum they do a great job and just again tell everyone to support them thank you absolutely thank you other uh reports
 alderman to bird thanks mayor regarding what alderman Durkee talked about is some of you may recall that years ago I called out a bank on on the floor and for a situation in the ward where a house was what we call a phantom property and what happened in this case was a bank sent foreclosure notice to the owners the
 the owners packed up and left thinking their home was going to be foreclosed on. The bank then did an analysis and realized that the home was, what was left on the loan was minimal.
 and really to go through the the process of bringing the home up to code continuing property taxes and having to put up for sale whatever they decided to essentially stop in their tracks and write off the loan as a loss
 So it technically never was foreclosed on. The owners were long gone somewhere else. And so the property sat and sat. And it was technically still in the owner's names. So it's what we'd call a phantom property. And so to my knowledge, we have passed in the recent, we have passed the law,
 something with City Council for For banks once they start a foreclosure process Didn't we not do was that part of ours or the land bank where we if a bank begins? Foreclosure process they have to continue through that process versus what this bank did and
 some years ago. Director Meyer? So we did council pass the vacant foreclosure property registry, which requires banks to register the property and pay, I think it's a biannual fee, and also have that property inspected for so long as the property is in the foreclosure process. They don't have to finish the process, but they have to maintain it, and then them just dismissing a case wouldn't be sufficient. They also have to remove the notice of default on it as well.
 So, yes, we did enact that legislation in order to stop just that exact same thing from happening. Great. And so I just kind of wanted to let others out there know that. And I think we're making some progress on that. Absolutely. And I'm going to find out. I think Alderman Durkee has had the right idea. But I want to find out. I believe in discussions with folks involved in this specific property. Okay.
 believe it was a previous owner not the bank that incurred all the problems but alderman Durkee's comments are still right on any other reports excellent moving right along we'll go to motions and resolutions planning and development committee alderwoman meets Thank You your honor under planning and development item a item number one committee recommends approval of a resolution requesting semi-annual presentation from Rockford Housing Authority or RHA
 Excellent. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Rose. Your Honor, I'd like to make a motion to the resolution or amendment to the resolution. The amendment would state I move to amend item.
 9A1, I'm sorry, 8, it would be 8A1, to include a request that the Winnebago County Housing Authority present to City Council on a semi-annual basis in addition to the Rockford Housing Authority. Thank you. So we have a motion on the floor to amend this item. Is there a second to that motion? We have a second, an Alderman Quinones, so we'll just take the motion first.
 is there any discussion on the motion other woman prunty um thank you i just have a quick question do we also appoint people to that board we do not thank you alderwoman terena thank you your honor so is there any reason why why is there any reason why we need them to present twice a year
 semi-annually why do we need to hear from them twice i would love to ask alderman mcneely but she's not here okay um she just drafted i think twice a year thank you that could be amended to annual it
 alderman rose yeah real quick one of the reasons why i moved forward with the amendment um i know we don't actually appoint people to their board but um it's my understanding that a majority of their properties sit in the city of rockford so that's why i moved forward with the amendment is that there are concerns that a number of the properties that they are giving um
 people to live in are not reflective of an equity issue. And so I just wanted to make sure that if we're bringing in RHA that we should at least take a look at what WHA is doing in coordination with RHA to make sure that poverty isn't being placed in certain areas in an overwhelming basis. Thank you. Other discussion items on the amendment?
 All right. So those in favor of Alderman Rose's amendment to add Winnebago County Housing Authority to the semiannual report, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed? No. Okay. It moves forward. Now we have one item before us amended. So now this item would have Rockford Housing Authority and Winnebago County Housing Authority come before city council twice per year. Is there any discussion on that?
 All those in favor of this item say aye. Aye. Those opposed? No. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Loganman? Aye. Toonberg? Tarina? No. Franti? Aye. Wilkins? Hoffman? No. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Meeks? Aye. Bonney? Aye. Ten ayes, two noes. Okay. Thank you. Item passes.
 Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Logman. Thank you, Mayor. Five items. Item number one, committee recommends approval of the award of bid citywide inlet repairs 2022 to TCI Concrete of Rockford, Illinois, for an estimated annual cost of $300,000 based on unit pricing.
 the contract duration is one year with one a one year extension the funding source is the street division operating budget cip general fund item number two committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract purchase of 36 police vehicles to curry motors fleet of forest park illinois in the amount of 1 million 284 926 dollars the funding sources capital lease funds
 Item number three, committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract purchase of four police vehicles to Curry Motors fleet of Forest Park, Illinois in the amount of $108,184. The funding source is police department operating budget mental health co-responder program. Item number four, committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract police dash mounted cameras last year.
 laptop computers and docking stations for 2022 patrol squad cars to CDS Office Technologies of Itasca, Illinois, in the amount of $127,660. The funding source is Capital Lease Funds. Item number five, committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Emergency Management Performance Grant from Illinois Emergency Management Agency in the amount of $53,851.60.
 The grant requires a cost match in the amount of $53,851, which is a budgeted salary. The grant term is from July 1st, 2021 to October 1st, 2022. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman. So we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Littleman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Carina. Aye. Pronte. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Leonis? Aye. Meeks? Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. Next up, we'll go to new business. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose? All right. Brace yourselves. We've got a long one. Item 1 is an ordinance approving a special use permit for outdoor storage of towed passenger vehicles up to full-size work vans and trucks in an I-2 General Industrial Zoning District at 622 Tay Street.
 Item 2 is an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the rear yard setback from 30 feet to 17 feet and a variation to allow the existing 6-foot front yard setback to continue along West Gateway Parkway for 17 feet by 18 feet. House addition in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 1828 East Gate Park Parkway.
 Item 3, an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to include karaoke nights, comedy nights, open mic nights, and live entertainment to include DJs in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 1201 Broadway.
 Item 4, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area and the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 206 West State Street. Item 5, an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant in a C2 limited commercial zoning district.
 at 3031 and 3035 North Rockton Avenue. Item 6, an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming terminals in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 4344 Sandy Hollow Road.
 item seven an ordinance approving the amendments to the 2022 fee schedule for video game terminal stickers item eight and ordinance approving the amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and rockford public school district 205 for police services
 Item 9, an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Housing Authority for police services. And item 10, an ordinance approving a special use permit for body art services in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3800 East State Street, Suite 101. Thank you. So we have 10 items before us. Is there any discussion on these 10 items? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Mogelman. Aye. Thunberg. Carina. Pratty. Aye.
 Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose. Steen on eight and no on six. Beach. I'm sorry? He said no on four, five, and six. I on the remainder. Keonis, Meeks, Donnie. We have two no's on number six, one no on number four, one number five, two Epstein on number eight, and one Epstein on number nine. Excellent. Do we have a correction or no? No.
 Number four is 11 to 1. Number five is 11 to 1. One no. Number six is 10 ayes, two noes. And number eight is nine ayes. Three abstains. Excellent. Thank you. Next we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Logan. Thank you, Mayor. One item. An ordinance approving the Candidate Referral Incentive Program. Excellent. Is there any discussion on this one item before you? Alderman Meeks. Can I just get a reminder of what
 the or what the fee schedule is for that incentive absolutely uh mr cagnone do you have that or i believe we may also yeah your honor i can answer the the question um you know we we've seen over the last year uh you know in about a 50 increase in the number of positions that we've
 had to fill throughout the organization. So we thought it was important to bring forward an incentive program that allowed our staff to go out and recruit and help bring qualified employees to all of our departments. And that incentive would be $500 over a 12-month period. That's what I thought. I thought it was $500. I just couldn't remember. So thank you. Thank you. Any discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Aye.
 logan toonberg terena franti wilkins hoffman rose beach leonis weeks and bonnie excellent i'm saying this pass is there a motion to adjourn we have a motion we have a second anyone want to discuss it no one wants to discuss all those in favor say aye those opposed have a wonderful night