Logerman? Toomer? Here. Frost? Here. Urbans? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Quinones? Here. Chiarelli? Here. Beck? Here. Durkee? Here. 12 present. Excellent. So we have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings? So we have a motion and a second to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting that was held on January 14, 2019. Is there any discussion of the item before you?
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have proclamations, and we have one proclamation this evening. So we have one proclamation this evening for U.S. Quad Rugby Association National Championship Tournament Days, and I believe we have a number of folks who will be joining us up here to receive the proclamation. The more the merrier. Come on up.
 Whereas, Rockford is honored to be chosen to host the 2019 U.S. Quad Rugby Association National Championship Tournament, March 29th, which happens to be my birthday, through the 31st.
 And whereas 16 teams from across the country, consisting of both men and women ages 16 years and older, will compete at the UW Health Sports Factory for the first time in the tournament's history. And whereas local organization Oscar Mike is proudly hosting this year's tournament and has the honor of being the first all-military team host, the Oscar Mike Militia.
 And whereas, Rockford has a history of hosting many regional and national sporting tournaments, earning the title of Sports Town USA by the Sports Illustrated. And whereas, our city welcomes athletes, their families and friends, and everyone associated with the event and extends an invitation to all to visit some of our wonderful local sites, attractions, parks, museums, and restaurants.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim March 29th through the 31st of 2019 as a U.S. Quad Rugby Association National Championship Tournament Days. This is really exciting for us. So I know the Visitor and Convention Bureau is extremely excited. I know all of us here are, so we would love to hear from you.
 Thank you very much. Well, normally we have to travel pretty far to these things, and they're held in cities like Miami and Phoenix, Chicago. And when we won the bid to have this in Rockford, Illinois, which is my hometown and area, I was extremely excited. And everybody here has been...
 they've been amazing. Everybody that's helped out, the park district, the city, and we're just extremely grateful, and we hope that we bring an awesome tournament to Rockford, and we have it for the next three years. So it's going to be home here for the next three years. Thank you very much. Thank you, guys. Appreciate it. Have a great night.
 That really is a terrific win for our community. Just a partnership. What an awesome organization Oscar Mike is. And for our community to be hosting this as we compete against some very large cities across the nation for this really huge tournament I think is really special. So thank you to the CVB. Thank you to Oscar Mike, the Park District, and all of those wonderful partners who helped make this possible. So thank you.
 Next up we have petitions and communications. We have planning and development first alderman rose.
 Alderman Rose is not here at this second. He's actually outside getting interviewed. Alderman Durkee, would you mind filling in? Thank you, Your Honor. There's two items under Roman numeral 3A1, a memorandum from Baccaferia Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney regarding renewal of a license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of 908 8th Avenue as a strong house. This will be referred to Planning and Development.
 The second item, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director, regarding resolution to work with Winnebago County Trauma-Informed Work Group, otherwise known as TIW, in order to become a trauma-informed community. This also will be referred to planning and development.
 Thank You alderman Durkee next up we have code and regulation with alderman Shirely. Thank Your Honor Three items this evening. The first is a memorandum from Harry Haggerty finance director regarding the modifications to chapter 7 article 5 of the City of Rockford code of ordinances alarm systems The second is a memorandum from Martin bloom project manager permits and special events regarding upcoming special events which include a
 Midsummer Festival, Lightscape 4th of July Classic Run, Swedish American State Street Mile, and St. Patrick's Day Parade. The third is a memorandum from Mike Atkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed sale of surplus properties. Refer all those to Poten's Regency, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Beck.
 thank you your honor i have three items the first is a memorandum from matthew flores assistant city attorney regarding a request for exception to the fine reduction policy for the nanak nanak sarsic temple located at 309 south 4th street next is the memorandum from carrie hagerty finance director regarding updated 2018 property tax abatement ordinance
 And the third is a memorandum from Mark Stockman, Director of Public Works, regarding a request for authority to hire a new senior engineering technician within the Engineering Division of Public Works. And these three will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you, Alderman. And back also to the clerk, I'd make you aware that Fidanzi Alderman Hervey is in attendance.
 Next up, we have four public speakers, and the speakers are welcome to utilize the microphones in the back of the chamber on both the right and the left-hand side, and we'll just make them aware that they have three minutes, and you'll hear a buzzer to bring your speech to a close. So first speaker we have is Carol West.
 good evening your honor alderman thank you for allowing me a moment to speak about rockford's historical preservation in nineteen twenty nine the catholic diocese raised the chancery office in twelve forty five north court raised meaning to build and as you know last december the same building was slated to be raised r a z e d
 erased destroyed demolished what if the pantheon had met such disregard that building built in one hundred and seventeen a d has been in continuous use throughout its history or santa sabina in rome was built in four twenty two a d and is still used by the catholic church to-day three years ago i visited blarney castle in ireland last year i
 visited a preserved abandoned mining town in Australia. As humans, this is what some of us do. We travel to places and seek what was. Reminders of our past ground us, amaze us, and inspire us. We take architecture tours in Chicago, staring at the intricacies and beauty of the quality of craftsmanship.
 We are a young country. Buildings like the Chancery are our castles. The Chancery was built during a time when we took pride in craftsmanship and speaks to those days. The Catholic Diocese in 1930 was audacious enough to keep this open in the darkest days of Rockford's history, the Great Depression. I've lived in Rockford my entire life. Prior to the fire, I lived in an apartment above the Midway Theater. My aunt, a retired teacher, lived across at the Faust Hotel.
 from there i walked to school at st james catholic school past city hall and the ing skating rink every saturday morning i would scamper down to shumway market and i could walk downtown to woolworth's or perhaps the coronado sometimes all the way to sears or the original burpee museum of natural history
 These buildings raised me. They like the Chancery are part of Rockford's charm, Rockford's history. They remind us of strong foundations. The diocese insists that the only solution to this building's future is demolishment. The city's citing the cost of upkeep and prospect of fines and code violation as their reason, yet the situation was of their own making. A building made to last shown signs of wear due to their own negligence.
 One statement that the diocese speaks to is of good stewards, and they say that somehow the city's involvement not only prevents them from being good stewards, but also sends the wrong message to other nonprofits and churches. This claim confuses me. How is accountability to your property, your neighborhood, and your city good stewardship?
 Where was the sense of stewardship during the years that they left the Chancery abandoned? The Chancery was built to last and left to waste. That is not my definition of good stewardship. I thank you and urge you to preserve this little piece of Rockford history, downtown's history, by granting landmark status to the historic Chancery. Thank you, Ms. West. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the first chapter, the seventh verse, it says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. It says, get wisdom, but of all thou get and get understanding.
 What I want to speak about tonight, Trump don't know anything about economics. For most people, everyday economics is pretty straightforward. The aim is to regularly acquire enough money and resources to provide food, clothing, and shelter for oneself and one's unique family. Too much going out coupled with not enough coming in equals a direct deficit.
 that must be addressed or disaster followed. Beyond that, adding the theories of price, demand, and supply, along with maybe opportunity cost, the circular flow market, consumers rule, and the like does nothing but confuse the average citizen.
 is not supposed to be an average American citizen. He is the current commander in chief. He is not supposed to be confused by some of the more technical aspects of operating economies as a successful businessman. But at least according to the head of Harley Davidson Motorcycle, a long-term American industry, Trump apparently did not stay in college economic classes long enough to get it. Yet he still keeps interfering and hurting the American economy, the same progressive
 gifted with by President Obama. The Harley CEO proclaimed that their decision to move some of their operations from the United States is 100% based on Trump terrorists. Trump knows nothing about economics and even less about trade. The point here is that Trump is seriously engaged in terrorist trade wars with several countries, particularly with China.
 He said trade wars are easy to win. That's a lie. And Trump is speeding the United States economy straight to hell. Trump will lose his trade war against China and it will cause serious damage to the bread and butter issues of most America. Of the last 10 years, China has controlled 90% of the world's supply of rare earth minerals and thus owned the key to a major United States energy volume.
 If and when China simply stops exporting rare earth materials to the United States, it's over for them. Mark your calendars and mark my words. We're going to have an economic collapse because of Trump's stupidity. He always talks about people need to go back to school. He needs to go back to school and learn that. Trump is getting ready to send the United States economy on a rocket ship to hell. Thank you for allowing me to speak. The next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Today I'm freestyling, and I want to start by saying I feel when Jesus Christ on the cross and his last words was, Why have thou forsaken me?
 This past weekend, I had raised funds for the take the kids to the Disney on ice. And someone had the audacity. I thought my apartment was a moon, a sanctuary where nobody's posted, you know, going to my sanctuary. Well, some crackhead went in my apartment.
 uh stole my identifications my ids my credit card and some funds these funds i raised for the kids to take the kids to disney on ice this is uh uh bigger than me and um and and uh the you know the
 Even though they took the money, they're not hurting me. They're hurting the kids. So now I have to come before City Hall, come before the city, and say Brother John is not immune for someone taking funds from him. But on the good side that I want to bring up is talking about the Disney on Ice. This past week, I was ambushed.
 by the police and the HBO. They cornered me, and officer, I called him Officer Preston because he looked like Officer Preston. They said, Brother John, where are you going? I said, checking on the kids. He said, are you picking any kids up? I said, no. He said, you dropping any kids off? I said, no. And so he said, what you doing? So I told him what I'm doing. So I started talking like this, you know, ice. I said, we're going to have Dr. Leticia Wallace there. She's going to be speaking. We're going to have a DJ. We're going to have dancing. We're going to have soul food. He said, dancing?
 He said, can't nobody beat me dancing. I said, really? I said, I can. He said, okay, is that a challenge?
 So on the 24th, between the hours of 2 and 4 o'clock, the Rockford Police Department, one of the officers, we're going to have an old school against the new school. We're going to have a dance-off. The kids is cracking up. He and me and the officer are going back and forth. So this is going to be entertaining and a brightness to our youth. Even the families, even though some of the families got six and seven kids, we're only charging the families $10 worth of that,
 for each family so we can the city can raise some funds so we can be able to take these kids to disneyland because 90 percent of them that i'm taking have never been before so my deadline is the 13th i put a flyer on y'all desk and what have you so i'm looking to uh raise some funds so we can be able to take these kids to disneyland on ice
 And I'm telling you, the devil is alive and what have you. He thinks he can hold us back or he thinks he can chop me down. It's not about me. It's about all of us working together to help our at-risk kids. I'm tired of this past month. I've seen three females that I know of that's been raped. I've seen one gay teenager this weekend stab another gay teenager. On Auburn Manor, I've seen one. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Okay, and before and on the 23rd is the these brothers is from Africa. That's going to be everybody. Thank you Next public speaker we have this evening is Bob Helen brand. Thank you mayor. Thank you council members I'm here because of the chance rebuilding and
 And that building has been, and so far still is, a neighborhood landmark in Signal Hill, where my wife lived for 12 years and where both of us lived together for almost 10 years, until we moved to Wesley Willows.
 I understand that a religious institution like the diocese may not wish to drain its resources by maintaining a facility that it no longer deems necessary to its current mission. I also understand that the city may not wish to invest financial resources in purchasing such a property. But I also see that building, which appears to have good bones, as contractors say,
 as being a good site for mixed use. For example, residential and commercial, or residential and the arts, or commercial and nonprofit. But to simply demolish a building as solid as that one when it could be offered for alternate use strikes me as poor stewardship and tragic, especially since our city has, as all of you know, a number of abandoned properties that really do need to get demolished.
 My wife and I served for a while as two of the founding pastors for Jeremiah Development, and in that neighborhood there were a number of buildings that needed to go down and still do. What I'm asking is that you make an effort not to spend city money to purchase the property, but to help form or seek out a civic-minded partnership in turning that architectural beauty into fresh purposes for our city. Thanks for your time. Thank you.
 Next, we turn to new committee reports, and we have planning and development first with Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items, a memorandum from LaFleur Caria Vaughan, assistant attorney, regarding the renewal of license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the city of Rockford of 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse, referred to planning and development agreement.
 No, Alderman Rose, sorry. We are now on new committee. So we used, you were out, so we had petitions and communications done by Alderman Durkee. Oh, yeah. Okay. Sorry, I shouldn't have made you aware of that. That's fine.
 We still have two items. The first amendment to the 2004 development agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford Local Development Corporation for the property located within lot three of the Edson subdivision at North Main Street and Eddy Avenue. The second item is an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Winnebago County Health Department for lead clearance inspections. Both of those are being prepared for appropriate ordinance.
 Thank you. So we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on the two items before us alderman Thompson Kelly? I just have a question on item two and I apologize that this was in our information Who will the lead inspectors are they're going to be city staff or Health Department staff? I
 Thank you for that question. Director Franzen? Under this, we typically perform these services in-house. This agreement provides us backup if we have a staff transition or a staff on vacation, and so the inspector would be the Winn-Baywood County staff. Thank you. Thank you. Is there other discussion or questions on the two items before you? Seeing no other questions, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely 14 eyes Excellent those two items are passed next we have code and regulation alderman Shirely. Thank you. I only have two items this evening So just kidding two times Throw you up two times five two times. However, the mayor wants to definitely say I
 All right, thank you. The committee recommends approval to establish traffic control on 10th Street yielding from 17th Avenue, thus repealing the existing 17th Avenue yielding for 10th Street. The second, the committee recommends approval from repealing the existing no parking from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. on both sides of 28th Street from Charles Street to 386 feet north of Charles Street, thus restoring unrestricted parking.
 The third, the committee recommends approval to establish a no parking 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday parking restriction on the west side of 12th Street from State Street to 2nd Avenue, thus repealing the existing no parking 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. parking restriction seven days a week on the west side of 12th Street from State Street to 2nd Avenue. I'll turn on my light here. Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the
 the traffic commission's recommendation for no action for the following items establishing an always stop at the intersection of paulo verde drive and calderwood drive thus repealing the existing calderwood drive yielding for paulo verde drive the second establishing an always stop at the intersection of 7th street and 3rd avenue thus repealing the existing third avenue stopping for 7th street
 the fifth the committee recommends approval for the request to vacate a narrow strip of land planted as right-of-way between 3708 and 3712 florida drive to joseph and judith guth
 Number six the committee recommends approval of the request to vacate a portion of Williams Park Boulevard from East State Street South 500 feet to just south of First Avenue to Swedish American Realty Corporation Number seven the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit to allow a single-family detached house at 4608 Mannheim Street subject to conditions
 Number eight the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a nightclub and banquet facility at 301 East State Street subject to conditions
 Number nine the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit for a planned unit development of the installation of a solar farm at a travel Plaza with restaurant and gas station at 4628 South Main Street subject to conditions and number 10 a
 The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 2542 Stow Market Avenue, subject to conditions. And the legal director shall prepare all those appropriate ordinances, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. So we have 10 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 10 items?
 alderman hervey thank you your honor with regard to number eight this is um for the nightclub and banquet facility uh above um on the corner of madison and state i had asked last time around if we can put either an owner operator limit on these special use permits
 We ran into a couple of cases, I don't know if it's how aggressive our legal department is, where we were pretty much told my first or second term that because we had granted an SUP with liquor for use, that we pretty much had to grant it again unless there was something wrong with the applicant. And I just worry about these special uses cases.
 One night, you know a nightclub operated by this group is going to have a certain tenor That's not necessarily true if I were to open one So I'd want to know that we could Sort of do a claw back on that nightclub provision because I would not want to see a nightclub in that location If just anybody was running it. Okay. Thank you Mr. Cagnone you respond to that
 Thank you, Your Honor. If we need to hold this item over to provide additional information related to that matter or memo in writing, we're happy to do that. We're not in the position to.
 under the law to zone the person. It's, you know, the special use permit refers to the property and the request at hand. So it is in perpetuity and we have conditions of approval that are set forth on the special use permit in regards to the overall operation of the facility. I would note that, you know,
 they do not have an intention to apply for liquor, that they would use an individual that has a catering license, should any of the events require liquor to be established on the property.
 i may not have fully answered your question i understand that so if you'd like us to hold it out and follow up we can when you said the law i remembered that there was some hitch that's something if we ever get the opportunity to ask that that provision be put in that we could put time or or applicant restrictions on the sup it's the in perpetuity that bothers me most but
 I wouldn't hold it up for that reason. And with the liquor permit not being attached to the special use, that alleviates a lot of my concerns. Perfect. Thank you. Alderman Toomber? Thanks, Mayor. I just wanted to add a little bit to that. I had spoken with their attorney and the owner of the property, and from what I understand, and it could be clarified maybe going forward, but that the...
 nightclub the word nightclub is actually just it's kind of had to be put in there but it's really not intended to be used as a nightclub to my understanding but that is something due to the way the ordinance or something is written it had to be that word had to be put in there but they have no intentions for what generally alderman Shirely would hang out at nightclub it's not one of those so thank you
 Worst part about that is he didn't even catch it. He didn't dispute that. Any other further discussion on any of the 10 items before you? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Hogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No, I'm for. Aye. And the remainder. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Nick Neely. Aye.
 Shirely I'm one two three fourteen eyes item number four thirteen eyes one no five six seven eight nine ten fourteen eyes Excellent those items pass next up. We have a finance and personnel alderman back. Thank you your honor I just have one item. It's the approval of the vouchers in the amount of seven million nine hundred eight thousand nine hundred and sixty seven dollars and eighty six cents place that it for passage
 Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. And that item passes. Next up, we have officers' reports. Any officers' reports? Okay.
 Alderman Logerman. Just wanted to commemorate a special Rockford citizen tonight who also happened to be my aunt Martha Logerman She well known to many of us around here So bear with me for a couple minutes, but she was worth it Martha Pulido Logerman 69 passed away from cancer on Friday, January 25th 2019.
 A beloved wife, mother, sister, aunt, friend, advocate, and feminist, she was born on January 22, 1950, in Zacapu, Michoacan, Mexico, to Esperanza and Juan Pulido before moving with her family to Rockford at age six. She graduated from Auburn High School, class of 1969, and attended the University of the Americas in Puebla, Mexico.
 Raised with a heart for justice and an uncompromising will to seek it, Martha began a long career of public activism in 1972 as a volunteer for the McGovern presidential campaign. Her passion for public service and activism spanned both her private and professional career. She served in various roles for Get Ready.
 The YWCA, Rose Grants, Congressman John Cox, Stepping Stones, Winnebago County Democratic Party, Coalition for Choice, Women Electing Women, League of Women Voters, Northern Illinois Women's Center, Southwest Ideas for Today and Tomorrow, Northwest Illinois Area Agency on Aging, member of the Unitarian Universalist Church and served as Rockford Township Trustee.
 Family life began with her marriage to Clark and the arrival of her sons Eli and Andy. She worked to bring love into her home and to her family with the same energy she brought to all things. A great cook and baker and devoted caretaker to her cooking mother, she loved to take a breath and relax once a year with her siblings, nieces, and nephews at the annual Thanksgiving reunion. Always vibrant, always full of spirit and vigor. If she was in the room, you knew it. She was loved and she will be missed.
 She has many survivors in the immediate area, most notably her beloved husband Clark and her beloved sons Eli and Andrew. Memorial services will be at 2 p.m. this Saturday, February 9th at the Unitarian Universalist Church in Rockford. And this is from me. Martha has always been a great help to many alders around this horseshoe over the years and decades. And humorously enough, probably an obstacle for some people here too.
 A survivor of gun violence herself, she lived to tell about it, and then went right on working to make our streets safer. Her fight for justice on the Southwest side and for all of Rockford will live on in the spirit of all who seek out to fight for right.
 As an alderman, one of my favorite stories was this past summer when I reached out to Mr. George Davis for a constituent inquiry, and George immediately directed me to, quote, somebody I might know at the Northwest Illinois Area Agency on Aging, Martha Logeman. So here we were helping out a constituent, the both of us, of the Second Ward together.
 Martha lived the best life she could. As a city, we could ask no more of her, and we are saddened only by the fact that we will miss such a wonderful and noble citizen of the world, but we can all step up in her stead. Martha Polito-Logerman, an immigrant to this country who dedicated her life to liberty and justice for all in our community, what a truly American story indeed. Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman Mogaman, for sharing that. She certainly, I did not know of her passing. She certainly was a staunch advocate for so many issues and a really wonderful Rockfordian. I will go Alderman Thompson-Kelly and then Alderman Herbert. Thank you. I served on a lot of campaigns with Martha, and she didn't care what color you were, where you were, or how much money you made. If you needed help, she gave it to you. So this community is truly wonderful.
 going to be missed. And thank you for doing that. I have a lot of thank yous. On the note, I want to thank Frank Beach,
 and Fire Chief Knox, George Davis, and the Community Development Department for an incident that we had at 980 North Church Street in the cold days with four families that was left without heat water. And I think emails were flying all over the place for three days, but I wanna thank everyone that was involved. I also want to get with George Davis to,
 Clear up and get a better understanding of what is our process when we have a situation like this in the fire department Maybe I misunderstood The procedure and policy that we are to go through with the fire department When they go out and when we go out and condemn a building it was a lot of confusion going on for three or four days and I just want to make sure that I understand our process and what we what we do and
 Also, I want to thank the street department, but I want to send a message to my constituents and that we are the last route on the snow plowing.
 And we are usually last in getting our street, residential streets plowed. A lot of the residents didn't understand that. So by the time last Monday, when the plows got to the seventh ward, it was four o'clock, 3.30, four o'clock. And unfortunately, someone has to be first and someone has to be last. And the way the system has gone and worked effectively over the years
 The 7th Ward and 13th is towards the end of the residential plowing. And to let my residents know, I want to thank you for the ones that called in. And the street department did address the issues that we had. I want to thank Mark Stockman and his staff. They did come out and they did address some issues that we had with the snow plowing. And I greatly do appreciate them doing that.
 Also, I've been receiving quite a few calls, emails, in regards to the Chancery building from the Signal Hill residents and all residents involved. And I will tell, want to make it public to my constituents that live there and the letters, the 25 letters that we just received tonight and the calls and the emails. I have to go back to deja vu here.
 And I have to go back to when we were going through the same thing with St. Pat's School. And it was a McNamara, it wasn't a Tom, it was a John McNamara that was involved with that. Somewhat of the same situation. Don't bring that up, please. No, I'm joking. Well, I learned then that if they're not going to walk, if they're going to walk away from it, they're going to walk away from it. There's absolutely nothing we can do about it.
 I will support the majority of my constituents that have said, if there's somebody at the table with money to rehab it, let's rehab it. If there's nobody at the table with any money in their pocket, all the good speeches in the world is not going to save the building.
 My constituents saying if there's some money there, it should not be put on the burden of the taxpayers with the fines and the building codes and the violations. Tear it down. Give it back to the diocese and hold them accountable for their real estate. And that's the position I'm going to hold. If nobody's at the table with money, I'm not going to support to put landmark status on it. And I just want to make that clear. Thank you.
 Thank you next we had a alderman Herbie and then I'll move around and alderman her thank you before we get too far away from it. I'm gonna ask Mr. Stockman or somewhat to give us just a short snapshot because my understanding is that we don't have a first and a last with regard to residential snow plowing when we release the independent con the the contractors and
 they start all over the place at one time. And I would say that's been borne out by what I've seen driving around in the snow sometimes. So if that has changed, I would like to know if it changed. Yes. Director Stockman? Yes.
 Thank you mayor nothing has changed in our snow plan and how we operate through the residential streets We do start plowing all 24 routes at the same time. There are subsections within each route Basically quadrants that they follow so there is a within each route There is a last and the routes do not coincide with the ward boundaries as well either So for most of you have tours you encompass two or three different routes within your within your actual ward but
 We do run concurrent on all 24 routes. They start with a minimum of six trucks in each route and work their way through all four sections.
 I hope that answers your question. It does. Because if that was different, my brother-in-law will never let me live it down. Because we have this argument every snowfall, every single snowfall. And I basically told him, if you keep saying that the west side gets plowed last, they're going to plow us last. Because if you're going to believe it no matter what, why do it any differently? So I beat him up for that.
 The other thing I would like to ask, and this goes along with the snow, two things. And that is the penalty for people pushing snow from their driveways and their commercial properties into the street. It's getting bad in not just in the Fifth Ward. As I'm driving around, I see it at some of the smaller commercial places. Okay.
 they're pushing it directly into the street and that's getting out of hand you have these big mountains sitting there where the parking curb normally would be so i would like to ask if we could start some enforcement onto that because you can tell where the snow came from sometimes they just push it across the street onto the sidewalk in the right-of-way on the other side of the street so if we could could give a look to that
 The other, I would like to ask with my fellow council members, if there's any will to or desire to revisit the odd even parking and to make that a no parking. I know there are some streets where it doesn't work. I know there are some other considerations, but the odd even just
 maybe it's working in some areas but in mine it simply is not and i just feel like we're just chasing our tails um trying to get people to comply with that ordinance and we're ending up with snow still being out in the street these cars just sitting there snowed in plowed in and it just seems to it's just wrong and people are upset about it and
 i'm hoping there might be some desire to revisit that i think would make it much easier to plow period and i look at all the other areas that do it and it doesn't seem to be an impossible task so
 I know I can't send an email to everyone and ask them to reply. So how can we see if there's any desire to? So what we'll do is we can certainly email out the ordinance to everyone so everyone has it in front of them. And then if you would like, you could have it referred to a committee. To a committee. Okay. Thank you. That's all. And Director Sackman, did you want to or need to respond to that first portion?
 thank you about the enforcement of the snow being pushed around i don't know if there is except we could better monitor it uh this next snowstorm
 Yeah, it would help us incredibly too if if these things are noticed if they could call Public Works and just let us know The address or location it is a right-of-way ordinance violation that we can Cite them for and either request that they remove it Fines I believe range up to 750 dollars a day if we so choose Thank you. Thank you next I had alderman McNeely had her hand up and
 Thank you Mr. Mayor and I appreciate Alderman Thompson concern regarding the 13th ward but I must say that I have not had an issue with snow plowing this year and I've commented here at council thinking public works for the job that they have done. I have not received phone calls regarding that.
 So, Alderman Thompson, if you have someone that's in my ward that has a complaint, I would appreciate it if you share with me. And, Mr. Mayor, regarding the snow plowing, the people that are pushing the snow out in the street, I certainly have that same concern. I had just this last snow where a neighbor pays a company to come and shovel the driveway, and they pushed it.
 Right where the city had people had just came through and cleaned the streets. So I was more than upset with that. But when I talked to the individual, then their response is smart remark.
 So I too would like Public Works from now on I can call or email and send the location regarding that. I do have some concern, however, regarding the adding even parking during snow plowing. A lot of my constituents don't have driveways.
 So they have no choice but to park on the street I think that if we would enforce the odd even we may get a better response I'm seeing this last no and
 When I drove around my ward that there weren't as many cars that hadn't been moved and I think what Public Works is doing with having the snow plows come back a couple days later and cleaning up where people have been able to get their cars cleaned off and moved, that takes care of that. I'm not sure how that works but I know I've seen it on more than one street when I drove through.
 So I think I don't want to put anyone at a disadvantage. If they have no place to park, there are not parking lots within the communities for people to take their cars and park until the snow plowing is complete. So I think that without receiving anything, without receiving that ordinance by email, that is an issue. It's a real issue, and I don't believe that.
 residents should be fined for not having a driveway during wintertime. So I hope that we can look at enforcing the odd and even. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, I had Alderman Beach, and I got everyone I think that has it. I'll get to you, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Webbs Norman is probably among one of the most positive people I've ever met, clearly in his focus and passion.
 I thank you for the kind words that you said Saturday at his graduation party. I'm not sure how many were out there at Sports Corps, too, but there was hundreds.
 and over two and a half hours of just people just praising, talking, singing, laughing, great music and a great tribute to a friend of this committee. I thought I'd like to make that comment on behalf of our city council to his family, Mary. And again thank you, Your Honor, for the very kind and sensitive words that you used. The second item is something that I brought up here, Your Honor, at least three times. This will be
 believe the third the fourth time about security in this council chamber more than we have now and also in the building I understand there was an incident downstairs this evening I'm sure it's been taken care of but I want to bring it up again I don't know whether we need a resolution to try to develop a policy a stricter policy what we need to do but
 I don't know if you remember or not, we talked about even reconfiguring this room so we're facing out, not our backs against it all. But I think that we live in a different time than we used to live. And I think we need to really take a good, long, hard look at this. So I'm just asking you to help figure out how we can do that. If you want me to bring up a resolution, pass it forth or something. But thank you for any consideration in that regard, sir.
 So Alderman Beach, we'll meet with Chief O'Shea and others to discuss some security protocols. Also, for any alderman who was unable to attend Webb's Normans,
 graduation service And celebration it is out on the park districts a YouTube channel I will tell you there's people who gave far better comments than I did I mean Jason Dean and I believe his daughter Patty Gave just two really beautiful talks. If so, if you you can fast-forward all through me and get to two really good ones They were really special and he was a tremendous resourcein advocate for our area
 Next up, I had Alderman Rose. Real quick, just wanted to share with community members. We have a community meeting for the Northwest Neighbors Organization.
 It's at the Church of the Good Shepherd off of Rockton. That is next Tuesday, February 12th from 630 to usually run about an hour, hour and a half long. But I also wanted to make a note. Brian Squires, our community officer, will be there, and he's put in a lot of work. We're planning an event to really kind of take on some neighborhood issues internally
 and this one is is special to my heart because it's in the sablewood neighborhood we've seen a lot of issues there in the past and brian and the police department and the fire department um have stepped up to the plate to to help out and plan that event and so um i wanted to say thank you to to brian and taking on that uh matter and planning it and um we're going to talk a little bit more about it at the neighborhood meeting as well so if if
 If neighbors want to come out and check it out, it would be a nice time to be a part of something positive in that neighborhood that has sometimes been forgotten. Thanks so much, Alderman Rose. Next up, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I do think there's a lot of lack of awareness about our snow plowing operation, too. And I agree with all the comments. I'd like to see us do more enforcement of the even and odd. I'd like to see us.
 enforcement of the pushing snow into the street. Mr Stockman knows that I give him calls when I when I learn of it and but you know, I know well, Sir, we're stretched and resources and staff so we can't always respond as thoroughly and quickly as we would like to.
 But I know just hearing the frustrations from constituents, you know, just not seeing people being required to comply with our ordinance. And then they're doing it themselves. And then, of course, they start thinking, well, why am I doing it if nobody else is doing it? And so whatever we can do to step up that. We don't like writing tickets, but I think sometimes you just have to get out there and have some consequences for people who don't comply with our ordinance.
 And I think, but I think part of it too, because I've had a lot of people who, it's the next day, you know, it's switched over from even to odd or vice versa, and
 and then we don't come back out and clear the other side. And I've talked to Public Works about that too, and it's not always our policy to go out and clear the whole street. We make decisions sometimes not to go out and do that just to save money and thinking that it's not bad enough to warrant spending the money to go out there and clear that street curb to curb. Because then that also leads to a lot of frustration from constituents who get their driveways plowed in three or four times.
 So it's kind of a you can't win no matter what you do type of situation. But I think there's a lot of lack of awareness about what are we trying to accomplish with the snow removal effort?
 and whatever we can do with our communications. You know, I mean the Next Door website, I think are tremendous for getting a lot of information out on our Facebook page, you know, sharing with the aldermen so that we can share it with our constituents so that we all, at least all of us in this room know what to expect when we have a snow operation. Cause I don't think, I don't even think all of us probably even know. I think, you know, until recently, I kind of thought that our plan would be to go
 all the way to the curb on both sides as much as we could and i certainly understand why we wouldn't maybe want to do that at times because again we're trying to save some money and how important is it for having a completely clear street especially if you know it's going to melt off in two or three days so a lot of variables that go into it and i do give our staff a lot of credit i think they make good decisions but i just don't think the community really knows why they make those decisions on certain different events
 Thank You alderman back and I'll turn to Director Sackman just to give a brief response I would just say one thing for any alderman here or anyone at home watching make sure you are following the city of Rockford's Facebook page Twitter Instagram and This information I believe especially in snow events that we've had we also push that out via the next door, but
 i would say we are pushing out information every couple hours and just recently we have also started pushing out the actual definitions of the ordinance to try to prompt people to follow the ordinance appropriately so uh just uh i'll hand it over to uh director stockman thank you mayor i think
 The alderman around the horseshoe, I think, understand the concept about even parking, meaning that we get one side of the street empty of cars to allow the trucks to pass through. It does not mean that we're only going to plow half the street. And I know the alderman understand that, but I think that's the biggest misconception that citizens have, is that we're only going to plow half the street one day and then come back and do the other half the next day. And that really isn't feasible for two reasons. It's going to extend the amount of time it takes to plow.
 And it's also, as cars drive on the unplowed section, it's going to track onto the section that's already plowed. So it kind of defeats the purpose of just plowing one side of the street. With regard to enforcement of the odd even, we try to get folks out on the street as much as we can, based on the timing of the storm. Very often, these operations are taking place during the very late night hours, which we generally don't put people on the street
 uh for that purpose that's strictly a police operation from about 10 o'clock at night until roughly seven in the morning so we can certainly uh you know try to put more information out we can use uh you know make sure that social media is being used to the extent that it can be and reaching as many people as we can with regard to the cars that are parked on one side and then they move them to the other side the next day
 We generally aren't staffed to come back citywide with internal staff to police all of these streets the next day, but I would encourage those folks that do move their cars over just to call the street department, 779-348-7260, and we will dispatch a truck to that area on request.
 Thank you. Could you also touch on, just I know the aldermen are probably painfully aware of the cost it is for a snow operation, but what it is, what it costs a city to, and how many drivers you have, things of that nature that go out during a storm?
 When we actually go into a full residential plowing operation utilizing our contractor, the minimum charge we're probably going to pay is about $150,000 a rotation at this particular point in time. Very often on these heavier storms, we actually have to go back through the first two sections of the route again because we can't wait for eight inches of snow to be on the streets before we actually start plowing. Those smaller trucks aren't equipped to handle it. Okay.
 Thank you. Alderman Beck. Thank you. And since we're speaking about snow, one of my jobs at the Bradford Park District is to run the Illinois Snow Sculpting Competition. And that's always a challenge. It seems that every year it's either too warm, too cold, not enough snow, too much snow.
 we've done a lot of things over the years to try to improve our consistency and we do have the capability of making snow in sinissippi park which made things a lot better but then last couple years mother nature laughed at that and said well i'm just not going to make it cold enough then so it's like what you know what do we got to do but we're finally there we did have to postpone from the original date in january we moved it to this coming week we have enough snow that's been made we
 We built the big blocks on Friday. We're going to build the high school blocks tomorrow, and the competition will begin on Wednesday. For the state competition and the high schools, we'll come out on Thursday, and it'll all be done Saturday at 10 o'clock. So we encourage the public to come out
 Every day, as often as they want, to see how they progress. Certainly on Saturday and Sunday, the weather's looking to be pretty cooperative for keeping the sculptures around for a little while. It's going to be a little chilly, but not like we just came through. So it should be a great opportunity for a lot of people to get out and see these amazing works of art. 10-foot-tall blocks are in the state competition, 6-foot-tall at the high schools. Every year it just blows me away, the high school kids. A lot of these kids have never...
 sculpted snow before they maybe made a snowman in their front yard or whatever, but what they come up with is just incredible and Just makes me really proud to be a part of that To be given opportunity for this special type of art to occur in Rockford in the Rockford Park District Park and So it's going to be a lot of fun And we just I just encourage people to come out and enjoy it. I
 Just a quick thing. Did a group from Rockford who won last year just win third in the state? The group that won the, what happens is each state that holds a competition produces a champion. And then that champion goes on to the Nationals the following year.
 And so Lake Geneva is where the nationals occur and it just occurred last week Typically we would have ours before they do but since we had to postpone We were after but the team that won our competition last year Took third in the People's Choice Award So I wasn't the third place in the overall but still Rockford. I mean Illinois is not known for a
 Having the best nose sculpting teams in the country. I mean just I think because you know, we're so limited only the top and
 20% of our state can really count on snow. And so a lot of people just don't think about doing it. Whereas, you know, when you're in Minnesota, Alaska, you know, some of these farther north states, they produce some pretty amazing sculptors. But we've got very quality, talented people, too. And so anytime they can go up there and kind of match up with the big boys, it's pretty cool. Awesome. Thank you. And Alderman Quinones, you had your hand raised. Yes, I just want to.
 say something here that the Hispanic community, SWIFT, South Rockford, Mexican Area Business Association would also like to thank Martha Paleto-Logerman for all the work she's done helping those groups should be missed in those communities there. Second, too, is on the snow plowing.
 uh the contractors uh if if they're ever do we use the same contractors all the time or if we switch them does the alderman know about it we just changed contractors this year to a new contractor i mean the contractors in my ward they were the same ones that did the last snowfall yeah yeah they're the same throughout the year thank you next up uh alderman tunberg
 One of the speaking of the snow and and the odd even just to relay a story I had a constituents that had their cars parked where they should be the plows came along and then they thought they were being good by a
 parking on the other side so then the plows could get the other side free and clear and they got ticketed in the process for having their cars on the wrong side so my uh they had good intentions but uh um i want to thank you for those in the city that had some understanding to that and just to let the viewing public know
 That really just be cognizant of those times and don't move your car until the time it is because many times these plows Come through and I'm sure director Stockman could back that up that they'll come through and then they'll come through maybe again A little bit later to tidy up and get closer to the curb And that would defeat that the cars then parked. So anyways, so with that being said I would like to thank the I
 Laura Maher for getting that in strategic communications for getting a lot of these Warnings out and such and making the community more aware. I think that is going a long way And helping us out a lot. So thank I thank her everyone
 I would also like to thank, holy moly, was that a cold week last week? Our first responders obviously having to be out, thank you to all of them. And I want to thank the Stockholm Inn for offering our first responders free breakfast and lunch for those that had to be out. And that was really stepping up to the plate on that.
 I think our best viewer out there, Dr. Dave Johnson, tried dressing up as a first responder to try to get a free lunch, but might have gotten caught. Sorry about that, Dave. And also this Thursday, for all the world that watches us on Monday nights around the globe, Alderman Logerman and I are having a meeting regarding the wonderful intersection of Chelsea and Brendanwood.
 and the city is going to present its results of our three different trials that were tested at that intersection. And we are going to be having a meeting at Our Savior's Lutheran Church, 3300 Rural Street. All are welcome. If you want to fly into Rockford, fly into Rockford Airport and jump a taxi over and join us. But it is at 6 o'clock.
 Show up early to get a seat. No need RSVP, but I have six. Okay, six o'clock. And Alderman Logan and I will be hosting along with Jeremy Carter from the city. And yep, six o'clock and they will present the results of the study of those three different trials of Chelsea and Brendan Wood. And so we're looking forward to that. And that's it.
 Thank you, Mayor. I tried to clear my calendar to make it look like a riveting meeting. I couldn't think of a better thing to do on a Thursday. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just would like to follow up what Mr. Brantley was trying to share with us before his time was up. And it's from the Rockford Public Library that they're having the acrobatics there at Norloff Center.
 On Saturday, February 23rd, it appears that they're having two showings, one at 11 a.m. to 12 p.m., and then the second one 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. Thank you. Thank you. All right, next up we have motions and resolutions. Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Trellis. Thank you, Your Honor. In light of a very exciting Super Bowl last night,
 I want to see if it's acceptable for me to punt to Alderman Toomer to read all of these items in because they're all in his ward. Just kidding. All right, the first is the Meltfest and 5K run. The second is the YMCA Heritage run. Third is the Rockford City Market. Fourth is North End City Market.
 The fifth is Market Vintage Market. And the sixth is the Rockford Bite Night at City Market Pavilion. If you want to read all the times and hours, it's listed on our agenda. No. And place them up for passage. Is that fine? Thank you. Reluctantly, it's fine. All right. So you have six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Dirksen. Aye. Aye.
 Logum in timber frost Kirby Irvin Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirley I 14 nice excellent that item passes next up. We have finance and personnel alderman back. Thank you your honor I have the award of RFP for emergency solutions grant to remedies shelter for $50,000 and
 for emergency shelter operations, Institute for Community Alliances for $29,000, for HMIS, which is Homeless Management Information System, Shelter Care Ministries for $30,500 for emergency shelter operations and services. The contract duration is two years. Funding sources is the US Department of Housing and Urban Development. Next I have the award of bid for Pioneer Parking Deck East and West Elevator Replacement to Schumacher Elevator.
 the company in the amount of $448,784. The funding source is the parking fund. One minute here.
 my lovely assistant was not paying attention okay we're ready number three is the award of bid for by two minutes patching to stemstone excavation for an estimated annual value of 650 000 based on the unit pricing contract duration is through november 30th 2019 with an option to extend for two additional one-year periods
 Next, I have the award of non-competitive contract for mechanical water meter supplies to Badger Meter Incorporated for an estimated annual value of $200,000 based on unit pricing. Contract duration is one year. Next is the award of non-competitive contract for automated meter reading endpoint supplies to ITRON.
 For an estimated annual value of $100,000 based on unit pricing, contract duration is one year. Next is the award of a non-competitive contract for compound water meter supplies through CORE and Maine LP.
 for an estimated annual value of 125 000 based on unit pricing contract duration is one year and the number seven and final is the award of non-competitive contract to john for john deer equipment repair to west side tractor sales for an estimated total of forty thousand dollars contract duration is one year and i place these seven items up for passage thank you so we have seven items before you is there any discussion on those seven items
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Bogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Those items passed. Next up, we have new business, planning and development committee, Alderman Rose. We have two items. Sorry, I can't pull my page up.
 Number one, an ordinance approving the first amendment to the 2004 development agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford local development corporation for the property located within lot 3 of the Edson subdivision at North Main Street and Eddie Avenue. Number 2, an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County. Health department for lead for lead clearance inspections. Place those 2 items up. Thank you all the Monroe's. We have 2 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 2 items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next, we have code and regulations with Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. The first is an ordinance establishing traffic coal at
 Traffic control at 10th Street yielding for 17th Avenue thus repealing existing 17th Avenue yielding for 10th Street. The second is an ordinance repealing the existing no parking from 7 a.m. To 4 p.m. On both sides of 28th Street from Charles Street to 386 feet north of Charles Street thus restoring unrestricted parking.
 Third is an ordinance establishing a no parking from 7 AM to 4 PM Monday through Friday, restricting on the west side of 12th Street from State Street to 2nd Avenue, thus repealing the existing no parking 7 AM to 4 PM parking restriction. On the west side of 12th Street from State Street to 2nd Avenue. Number four is an ordinance approving the vacation of a narrow strip of land planted as a right of way between 3708 and 3712 Florida Drive.
 The fifth is an ordinance approving the request to vacate a portion of Williams Park Boulevard from East 8th Street South to 500 feet to just south of First Avenue to Swedish American Realty Corporation. Number six is an ordinance approving the special use permit to allow a single family detached house at 4608 Mannheim Street. Number seven is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a nightclub and banquet facility at 301 East State Street.
 Number eight is an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit for a solar farm At a handed at a travel Plaza with the restaurant gas station at 46 28 South Main Street And number nine is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products at 2542 still market Avenue place those ordinances up for passage. Thank you alderman Shirely Is there any discussion on those items before you?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Kaufman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Is there a motion? Aye. Thank you. Motion and a second. Any discussion on that? Seeing none. All those in favor, say aye.
 Those opposed, have a wonderful night.