This is our city council meeting in the city of Rockford, Illinois. The date is February 6, 2017. And our invocation tonight is going to be done by Chaplain Dan Herman of the Old Stone Church. Chaplain? Mr. Barr, your heads and hearts. Governor of the universe, you are not Christian, nor Jew, nor Muslim, nor Hindu. You are neither black, nor white, nor brown, nor red, nor any other color. You are not limited by words of one language or nation. Please speak the language of creation.
 On behalf of everyone on this day, we ask your blessings upon the city council, our fire and police chiefs, and the leaders of our community. They have taken upon themselves responsibilities that often seem thankless, and they are pulled in many directions, so we ask for them clarity of mind and heart, and we are grateful for their service on our behalf. In times when people would want to emphasize differences, help us in your gentle way to be reminded that we carry with us the dreams of our mothers and fathers,
 our husbands and wives, girlfriends, boyfriends, our children and our grandchildren, our neighbors and our friends. For their sakes, unite us as we work for safety and the prosperity for our community. As always, I ask you to watch over those who protect and serve us in our community, our police officers and firefighters. Too often we forget their families and the unique stresses which they live with. So we ask you to build their families in peace and in strength so their loved ones can serve us with even greater courage and wisdom.
 And in all things on this night, we ask your blessings and we are humbled by your listening to us on this evening and all days. Amen. Amen. Congratulations from the United States of America to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice. Alderman Getchis.
 As we get ready to welcome our speakers for the week coming up, I was looking to take three minutes of my own to discuss someone who will not be able to come forward and offer his opinions anymore. This morning, Mr. Roland Poska, the fishy whale, passed away. With that, when I first came onto the city council, he was one of the people who came in to speak virtually every week.
 Believe it or not, we actually do listen to every speaker who comes up very sincerely. And so when he first started his narrative, you know, he started talking about fishy whales and how he was stupid and all that. I was kind of like, okay, who is this guy? But then when I started listening, I started to hear his message. I started to hear that he had some very clear ideas, very true ideas that he believed in.
 to make our city better. And he wove it very cleverly, very entertainingly, very self-effacingly into a narrative. A narrative where he started a political party that he called the Fishy Whale Party, where everybody who came in were stupid. They competed to see who were the stupidest among them. So in his narrative, in his message, there were a few things that I disagreed with. One, and I'm sure he would hate this, I disagreed that he was stupid.
 Because his thoughts were, no kidding, sincere, well thought out, and very eloquently put together. I did want to put this out at the City Council one more time, because I know this is very important to him. He believed that we could make our city better by offering a very, very large, low-interest loan to all of our high school graduates, college graduates, and all of our citizens. He also claimed that that would not be inflationary. I also disagree with that.
 However, it was a message that he truly believed in and he wanted all of us to hear. But the one thing that I do agree with him on was the basis of that message and that Mr. Poska had an unlimited faith, an unlimited belief in the citizens of the city of Rockford, particularly our young people.
 and that citizens, by working together, and if we trust them, and if we work together, we could make our city great, we can do the impossible. So I do thank him for delivering his message, and we'll ask for more silence. Please stand. Thank you, Alderman Getchis. Proceed on our agenda now. The clerk can call the roll. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 Thank you. We do have a quorum. Now, is there a motion to accept the journal? Second. Is there any amendments or changes to the journal? Hearing none, all in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Ayes have it. Thank you.
 I will move on to the public speaking part of our agenda. We have three speakers this evening. Each speaker will be allowed three minutes to speak. If you start going over, I will ask you to wrap it up. Appreciate that. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Youssef. Come forward, please. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of James, the second chapter, the 17th verse, it says, fate by itself, if it is not without action, is dead.
 What I want to speak about tonight lies about African Americans in the military. They said they didn't have black officers in the Navy in World War II. That's a lie. They don't tell you about the Golden 13 who scored high on the Navy entrance exam. My mother's cousins were one. They tell you that blacks were only cooks and steward mates in the Navy in World War II. That's a lie. They had black sailors and the whole crew on the USS Mason destroyed Escort 529 were black in all the ratings of the Navy.
 This same ship went out six times and never lost a ship in its convo. This same ship with a black crew captured the U-505, a German U-boat that's at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago. That was a PC, patrol chaser, in the United States Navy in World War II, PC-1264. The whole crew were black. They don't think about a black Coast Guardman in World War II. His name is Charles W. David.
 Stuart made first class who died in the water and saved 65 people who was drowned when the troop transport Dorchester was blown up by a German U-boat. This black Coast Guardsman also saved the exact opposite of his ship, the Coast Guard Cutter Comanche, but also named Lieutenant Anderson. They don't tell you about black Coast Guardsmen on the Cutter Modoc in World War II who told the British Navy where the German battleship Bismarck was at.
 If they wouldn't have told the British name, they wouldn't have been able to find the Bismarck. Those black Coast Guard never got credit for what they did. They don't tell you about the black pilots who flew planes over Germany in World War II. The Tuskegee Airmen. They don't tell you about the black Marines who fought in World War II in the Pacific.
 They were known as Montfort Point Marines. They don't tell you about the black soldiers who fought in World War II, the 92nd Division in Europe, the 93rd Division in Portugal. They don't tell you about the 761 tank outfit, all black, who was on the front line, who fought German soldiers for 183 days. Them German soldiers couldn't deal with them black boys from down south, them squirrel shooters. My uncle, my father's brother in the 761, he had a good, my good friend who lived in Rockford.
 Mr. Thomas Jarrett, 761. He also was the first African American deputy sheriff in Russia. Black folks, you have no reason to have your head down. Stand up, speak up, and let the whole world know your proud history of what you have done for the United States of America. And every one of them that I was talking about got all the pictures right here. Thank you for all. I've been wanting to tell Mr. Dox in this for a long time, but he left.
 For a long time, I'm getting off my chest tonight. I don't like him, I love him, and he can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, I wish him many more. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Next speaker is Mr. John Brantley. Good evening everyone and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 27 says, with all the problems and concerns that neither have, it can be easy to overlook the very people who deserve attention.
 Faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the hood. Be sure that in all your work and planning and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most. On Saturday at St. Luke's Missionary Baptist Church and Mount Zion Baptist Church, Man's of the Territory Conference had a conference which cost $25. We had 10 tickets and $10
 uh which include breakfast lunch and material there was over 80 men that showed up at this event i was astonished surprised and glad to see that many men in church at one time on sunday we was at kingdom authority church for church service at the church service we had popeye chicken dinner and big jumbo hot dogs and drinks for 96 people
 By 3.30, we started loading up everyone to go to BMO Harrison Bank for Disney on Ice, Dare to Dream. We had Rock River Training Van. We had Long Island Church Van. We had Kenyon Authority Van. We had RHA Van. We had personal cars and vans. But most of all, we had second first congregational Presbyterian Church, thanks to Pastor Rebecca White from downtown, brought two.
 of their minibuses to help us transport 91 young adults and youth. 80% was from RHA residents. Also, once again, we had some people that wanted to go, but we ran out of room and some of the people asked too late. We are still working on trying to get another van or minibus to be able to take more people from point A to point B.
 You have my number where you can reach me at. Now, a lot of people feel like their vote does not count. That's not true. Come down to local election, your vote do count. I'm running for third ward alderman. I have a fundraiser coming up on Thursday, February 9th from 6 to 9 at the District Bar and Grill at 205 West State Street.
 Moving right along, we have a basketball, we have two basketball teams in the fairground housing area that we are still working on trying to raise funds to get them uniforms and gym shoes. Now that you wake up a sleeping giant, you want to reinforce why I'm running for Alderman? We are, we, I'm running because some people feel like
 I vote don't count some people feel like the three minute speech that I give is not enough they would rather see me up here at city council I'm not running because I want to run I'm running because the people are asking me to run whether or not if I win or lose I'm still going to be out there in these streets helping our people we got an aviation maintenance technology presentation coming up on February the 17th where we're taking 25 youth and
 to Rock Valley College where these minorities be able to get an opportunity even if they got a GED or got a record, they have an opportunity to apply for aviation school. And thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Our next speaker is Jennifer Smith. Thank you. Last week I came to speak in favor of the complete streets resolution that the committee passed. And this week just a
 A few other comments about why I think it's important for you to vote yes on that resolution tonight. Last week, I mentioned the Federal Highway Administration has enacted new safety measures that count bicycles and pedestrians, not just the speed and level of service for single occupancy vehicles. In addition, in the past couple of months, the FHWA has announced a new system of performance measures to govern how federal transportation dollars are spent and help municipalities set goals for transportation service
 including how many people use the road, not just the number of vehicles. So for instance, a bus, which would previously been counted as one vehicle, would be counted for the number of people that it can carry. And also a new multimodal measure that counts the portion of non-single occupant vehicles traveling on a road. So all of these considerations are important for you to consider in your wards and for the city as a whole.
 What complete streets are, are designed to operate, designed and operated to enable safe access for all users.
 equitable service for all users. But what they're not is a prescription that every street has to look the same, that they are context sensitive. So depending on what type of street it is and where it's located in the community, it can look different. So I hope that you will not be overly concerned that there'll be this prescription for every street in your ward to look exactly the same.
 But what they are, another thing they are, is designed to balance safety and convenience for everyone using the road. I believe that your vote yes on the resolution tonight furthers the recognition that our built environment, particularly our streets, can advance and greatly impact the physical and fiscal health
 health of everyone in our community and that streets can really be a measure for Expanding equity in our community and perhaps there's no greater reason to vote. Yes tonight Then the strategic outcome 12.5 which states in your 2020 comprehensive plan implementation supplement implement a complete streets policy, so it's part of your implementation plan and
 And I hope that you will consider very carefully and vote yes on the resolution tonight. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you to all our speakers this evening. Now we'll move on to Roman numeral three under petitions and communications. Alderman Dirck, do you have any this evening? Not the problem. Okay, thank you. Alderman Newberg. Roman numeral three, B, codes and regs. I have three items to be referred to the Code and Regulation Committee.
 Number one traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on February 8th 2017 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation meeting on February 13th 2017 number two memorandum from Scott Capo Bella zoning and land use administrator regarding plat number three a factory addition subdivision a
 Number three is memorandum from Kelly Noakes, deputy operations manager, regarding upcoming special events which include Miracle Mile, Rockford Cruise Night, Irish Marching Society of St. Patrick's Day Parade, MELD 5K, Edgebrook Farmers Market, Artsy Arts and Crafts, and Cedar and Cinnamon. Again, those three items will be referred to codes and regulations.
 thank you those items will be referred all the get just
 The first one is a memorandum from Kerry Partridge, interim legal director, regarding intergovernmental agreement for city guaranteed of RMTD $1,500,000 line of credit. I have a memorandum from Mike Hackison, land transportation officer, regarding tax abatement on foreclosure properties for both of these to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Those items will be referred. Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. I agree to seek chapter 141 of the Alderman's Decree.
 Very good. Thank you. Is there any other petitions, communications? All right. Next on our agenda is a presentation by the Head Start Governance Orientation. Mr. Davis. So, we are here tonight, Joanne and I, to just do a brief overview of the Head Start Governance structure and requirements under the ERA.
 the funding that comes to the city for Head Start services. And we'll make this brief and certainly allow time for questions if you have them. And just to remind everyone, the council had agreed to take the step of fully –
 taking on the responsibilities as outlined in the Head Start Act of 2007, following a review that resulted in the finding that the city was not in full compliance in the way in which we were carrying out our governance process. And that has led us to...
 One of the steps required is to make sure that at least annually that the City Council receives as the governing body for Head Start receives an orientation in regard to those responsibilities. So, tonight it's our first step in doing that. It doesn't mean it's the only time we would come before you. If you desire, we would come more often, but also, you know, if you have specific questions that we can't answer tonight, we'll certainly follow up with you.
 What we want to do is start by an overview of what are the Head Start services that we're providing right now, and the number of children and so forth, and the funds that really attach to those services. And I'm going to have Joanne start out with giving you that overview, and then I'll speak very briefly about the specific procedures for governance.
 Thank you. I think most of you are aware, if I know how to forward this one. I'm not good with this stuff. Ah, okay. So we do serve prenatal to five-year-olds in Head Start, and they are all low-income. So all of the families need to qualify for Head Start based on their income. So we have three federal grants, and they're listed up here for you to see. The Head Start grant.
 which is for ages 3 to 5. The Early Head Start grant, again, prenatal to 3, so we want to enroll women as soon as they find out they're pregnant so we can help them through their pregnancy. And then our hope is, again, those 3-year-olds will transition into the Head Start program. Thank you.
 And then our newest grant is the Early Head Start Child Care Grant that was awarded in 2015, and that is again, ages prenatal to three, but we are partnering with child care with that. So we're again working with women who are pregnant, helping them to find the child care they need, and working with our child care partners to provide the child care that people need who are either working and going to school and training, whatever they might qualify there.
 So you see each one of those are listed in terms of the funding year. Head Start and Early Head Start have the same funding year. Early Head Start Child Care has a different funding year. And each of the grant amounts are listed there with the –
 non-federal share matches as well. So again, the total federal funds that are coming into our community are $6,866,439. Majority of that money is going to our staff salaries. Of course, a lot of it is also going to the families we serve and the facilities and transportation and other pieces that we do, but the majority of that money is in staff salary.
 And then the next slide here is the state funds we have. So these are not necessarily related to the governance structure procedures that George will talk about, but they are two other grants that were awarded. One of them is pre-K expansion. That is a grant that is funded through
 the Illinois State Board of Education, and that grant supplements our full-day classrooms. So it allows us to hire two teachers with O4 certification or a teacher credential to work in our classrooms. So that money supplements what we already have existing in our Head Start program. And then the MCV grant, which is Maternal Infant Early Childhood Home Visiting Program. Again, a prenatal to three program. It is a home visiting program.
 and it's very similar to the early Head Start program, but it comes through the DHS office at the state. So again, those are the funds we receive from there, another $346,949, and there is no match that we have to worry about with those two grants. And then the next slide actually shows our funded enrollment. Is that...
 There we go. So our fund enrollment is on the left, and it shows our Head Start grant, which is 591 children. The Early Head Start's 92. Early Head Start child care is 40. And then the MCV is just 20. And then the grid here we think is easy. We actually created this for our parent council to be able to show you all of our locations and then each of the breakdowns in terms of which grant and how many children are at each location.
 And so I think sometimes people don't necessarily know where we are operating. I know a lot of you were aware that we're in the housing developments, but we also have our child care partners and then our home-based program. So that just breaks down the different models and the business that we're in. Questions on any of those? Am I in your way, Alderman McNeely? I'm sorry. Alderman McNamara. How many staff do we have? We have 85 staff.
 And, uh...
 How do we track the success of the children? What do we gauge that success on? And how long do we track them? Sure, and those are great questions. So we're required by the Office of Head Start to do a minimum of three child assessments a year. So we do a pre-, middle-of-the-year, and end-of-the-year assessment. And so we have child outcome data that we can show. We can show that on an individual child. We can show it on a classroom. We can show it on a site or a program as a whole.
 We do those outcome reports in our RAC stat reports. We usually do those in September for the previous program year.
 What was your other question? I'm sorry. I got child outcomes. To gauge the success. But how do we track them once they're out of the program? Sure. Well, that's one of our goals. We're hoping to establish a system with the Rockford Public Schools. We actually did hear, George and I were both in Normal, Illinois, last week at a Head Start conference.
 and they are going to enter our Head Start children now into the student information system at the state of Illinois and that's just something we've been advocating for for a number of years and then we'll be able to track the children as they go on into public school and see how they're doing. One follow-up question is with zero to three, by a lot of research being the most critical,
 Can we shift any of that federal funds to zero to three? Because right now it looks like, and briefly looking at it, it looks like it's where our lowest dollar amount is going. Yes. One of the things that we have the option to do, and one of the things we're looking at in terms of community planning, is we have the option to convert, or in other words, take some of the Head Start money and convert it to early Head Start money.
 Right now, they're not offering us more money. They're saying if you want to convert some of your 3 to 5, if you see that there's enough other programming going on in your community, like the Rockford Public School program, then maybe you want to take some of that 3 to 5 money and convert it and make it birth to 3. Sorry, one final question. Sure. What's our capacity? If we have 591, what is a true capacity that we could hold?
 I'm not sure what you mean by capacity. If we got you not. That's our funded enrollment, right? We serve more than 591 on most years. I was going to say our usual with turnover, it's usually somewhere around 660, 670 a year when we have children coming and going. Thank you. Any further questions? Any further questions? Yes. Thank you. Your total enrollment would be the numbers there to the left, 780.
 743 is the total funded enrollment. Again, that's funded enrollment, not actual, because at any given year, because of turnover, we would generally serve more children than the actual funded enrollment. But that's the amount that we're, there's a number of children and families that we're actually funded to serve. So how much more then? How many more? It can vary from year to year, but
 I was going to say, no, Head Start every year is about 640, 660, somewhere in there. I can get you those exact numbers if you'd like to see them. And then early Head Start, again, with 92, we're probably serving maybe 110, 120 total. And the other two? You know, I'd have to look up. You know, there is some turnover in each of the programs. And we actually, each year we do a program information report, and we do the total enrollment on all programs. Okay.
 So, Mr. Chairman, given the dollar amount and the number of kids, and you said the majority of the federal funding goes to staff. Goes to salaries, correct. About 85% generally goes to salaries and benefits for staff. And keep in mind that we have about 85 staff.
 I don't remember the numbers at the beginning, but would that be how much, what percentage, 60% of that? Of the total funding? As George said, about 85% of it goes to staff and salary. 85%. 85% goes to salary and benefits. That's a lot. Why so high? Well, because you're doing intensive services that not only involves serving children, but providing transportation and providing family support services.
 So unlike only a preschool-only model, which is more typical of what public preschools provide, although they're trying to go in this direction, Head Start is actually expected to provide comprehensive services.
 which includes not only services to children in classrooms, but also includes family support services, transportation services. And you have varying ratios as well. So in the case of Early Head Start, the ratios are much lower. So you have one staff person for every 12 families in Early Head Start. And so because of that, it's a very high staff intensive program. Alderman Oro and then Alderman Beach.
 If you're going to give us numbers, I would like to know how many at risk from the zero to three. Those are at risk. Those are young mothers. You have to learn about vaccinations, lead poisoning, so on and so forth, well-baby checkups. So I would like to see numbers because this program should support the majority of our at risk numbers.
 And I'd like to know how many of our at risk that we're are that are in this program. I've stated it before that I know that, you know, there's a lot of others that come into the program that are not may not necessarily be at risk. But we need to start targeting our at risk.
 They're the most vulnerable. Those are the ones that have to learn how to read. Those are the ones that have to get to school, you know, mothers have to be taught to get their children to school on time. The kids, how to function in a school setting. Because once they get into the school district, they can get lost. And when they get lost, it tends for problems, not only in the classroom, but out in the community.
 and then at a certain point they become dropouts. And then when they become dropouts, they have nowhere to go, and they become the community's problem. And so if we really want to...
 combat the crime with our youth, and it's happening at a younger age, we're getting 11 and 12 and 13 and 14 year olds. I want to make sure that our most vulnerable are in this program and taking advantage of it, and if they're not, we need to figure out how. Because the only way we're going to combat the crime in the city is to get a handle on this and to teach the parents.
 That's absolutely, as in that is absolutely the goal and purpose of why Head Start was created. And now we see that the state is moving in the same direction of trying to figure out how to serve the most at-risk children. The basic marker that Head Start uses is income, which is basically 100 percent of federal poverty.
 We find that, you know, we can provide this data to you, but really the vast majority of the families we serve are often even below 100% of poverty. So we know in that sense we're serving the most at risk. The other piece of it though is that some of the families that are the most at risk are the least likely to enroll or send their children.
 So our biggest challenge is really how do we reach and connect with those families who don't present themselves or respond or follow through with an opportunity to enroll their kids in the program. Follow-up, Chairman? Yes. We have 85 staff, and I'm sure they're stretched. I believe it. But there's got to be a way that we can utilize our staff to get –
 to those people, even if we have to go to their door, even if we have to encourage them and tell them the importance of it. So there's got to be a way because if they're not coming to us, we have to go to them. And we, you know, we often hear about, well, we're stretched, money's tight. That can't always be the excuse.
 because of the crime and because of our children. Our children don't need to go down this path. And so we need to find a way to utilize that staff, those 85, to get out there to those people to get them in.
 So maybe you guys can look into how we can utilize that to do that because it is important. We can't keep doing this. We're chasing our tail. And I don't want to see the detention center filled and I certainly don't want to see our jail system and our prison system filled because they're getting younger and younger.
 So we need to control it now. Absolutely. And we do emphasize, in fact, we do recruit door-to-door. We recruit by a lot of different methods. But in spite of that, what we're finding is oftentimes how do you successfully engage and get responses.
 from those parents that we know need to be in the program and aren't responding for whatever reason. But it doesn't mean that we can't afford to just simply give up on that. We have to continue to try and we have to work with community partners as well like RHA, like the Rockford School District and all of our community partners to really figure out what we have to do to connect effectively with these families.
 So your point is extremely well taken and exactly what we are, you know charged with that's really our Responsibility not to wait for parents or the families to come to our door. So but thank you But you help me understand
 that difference or that gap between the time the kids are out of Head Start until they're up in the junior high or the middle school, where we're seeing crime being committed with no remorse on the part of many of these kids.
 I mean, you can get them when they're little, and I really support that idea, but then they're done when they get to be five years of age, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, and in a school. What's happening with the families? Who's taking care of that aunt?
 Right, and that's another challenge, but, you know, obviously once they leave Head Start, we also have our community services division, which is providing a whole range of services to low-income families that sometimes we'll be able to pick up. But there's a need for a better coordination by all the agencies that are working with families that are facing social and economic challenges because families show up in all kinds of different places.
 and for all kinds of different reasons. Our goal is to move people from wherever they start to a higher place on the scale from those who are in crisis to those who are at risk to those who are stable to those who are thriving.
 And so the goal is, in the time we have them, and if we have them from birth, sometimes we'll have a five-year window, we can at least reach a point where the family is stable by the time they leave us. That doesn't always happen. Sometimes we only have families one year or two years. But also a lot of other agencies and organizations have to be involved and the services have to be coordinated effectively.
 So it's a challenging issue, but it's a community challenge as well as one for our particular program. What we find is that in following our families, you know, and our kids into the public schools, it depends a lot on the family themselves, it depends a lot on the schools they go to, and so forth.
 What we have seen in the past years when we track this is about a quarter of our children who leave us lag behind by the time they get to third grade. About 50% are at average and about 25% are above average, which is basically a bell curve. But that probably says more about how their families are doing than necessarily just how the kids are doing.
 But as Joanne said about the data, we will, the advantage of having all of our kids entered into the student information system is that we will be able to track from the time they
 Head Start, before they arrive at the public school, all the way through their school career, how they're doing on standardized measures because they're in that system. And that is something that the state itself is now going to be opening up to Head Start programs across the state and it will give us much better ability to really track than we've had in the past. Very good, thank you. Alderman McNeely? How does the part-day and full-day work?
 So part day is three and a half hours, and full day is either six and a half hours if it's in our center, or if it's in child care, it could be eight or nine hours a day. Who makes the determination? The parent certainly has a choice depending on their needs. Certainly child care, all of our parents qualify for that CCAP or the child care assistance if they're in our child care centers.
 And in terms of our two full-day classrooms that we have in our centers, there's specific requirements. They have to be four to be in full-day, and they also have to have risk factors, which comes into Alderman Odo's comment about they have to show specific risk factors in the family that requires that the child would need that extra intervention.
 The Office of Head Start is mandated that in the next five years, we have more full-day programming in our centers. There's an expectation that by 2019, 50% of our programming will be full-day, and by 2021, 100%. So research has shown that there's a greater impact the longer the children are in school. Yes.
 I asked a question. So for the park day, some mothers would like for their kids to be in the pool day. And because of your requirements,
 they can't put them in for the whole day. So therefore, they don't put them in for part day. They let them stay with their family or whoever because they're working, and therefore, they can't come after two hours or three hours, be bored to pick their kid up, and then go back to work. But we're happy to also bus children if they're with a family provider or a child care home provider. We can bus from there as well.
 And we do. That is a big part of our cost for our cost is making sure that the children who most need it can get transportation even though it's not, again, 100 percent. We do transport a significant percentage of our children to and from school from wherever they need to be picked up to get to school within the limits of the
 of the bus routes that we can operate because, you know, it is still a limited capacity, you know. And the fact that you don't want three-year-old children or four-year-old children to spend an inordinate amount of time on a bus if you can avoid it. But we do provide that when we need to. Very good. Thank you. What I'm going to do is if you would like to have further discussions on this, you can contact George or his office.
 So in the interest of time, rather than going through any more, I'm just going to say that the document that I was going to mention briefly has been sent to all of you as part of the attachments for this meeting that has to do with the specific areas that the Council will be asked at different times to give input or decisions approving.
 Everything that you'll be asked to consider will have been reviewed by the Head Start Policy Council and then will come to you for confirmation, question and final approval. And you have that list and the procedure that we're going to be using to implement that as those decisions are required. So it won't be on any necessary timetable except as need be.
 And then in addition to that, every month you'll get a packet of information only items that would be just for your information and again if you have questions you can ask. So next week you'll see that regular information packet come through but it doesn't necessarily require any action. If there's anything that requires any action, those things will be highlighted and brought to you through the committee process as we normally would.
 So if there's any more questions, I'm happy to ask. But otherwise, those are the main points we wanted to try to cover tonight. Very good. Thank you, Mr. Davis. If you would like to contact him at a later time, that would be great. Thank you. Thank you, Joanne. Okay. So we'll move on to our agenda item, Roman numeral 5, under new committee reports. We have Alderman Durkee under planning and development committee report. For the committee, Ms. Joyce, there will be a museum for the past.
 museum campus and acquisition of the Graham Genestra House at 1515 South Main Street. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Second item, this committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement with First Bend Western Group, in parentheses, McChesney Investments LLC
 For the construction of a commercial retail node, including DeVita Dialysis Medical Services Center at the northwest corner of West State Street and North Springfield Avenue, the interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'd like to first suspend rules on these two items. Second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second to suspend the rules. All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you.
 Thank you. Then I'd like to place Roman numeral 5A, 1 and 2 up for passage. Roman numeral 5A, 1 and 2 is up for passage. Is there any discussion on those two matters? Alderman McNamara. Just on matter A1 regarding the Ethnic Heritage Museum and the funds that they're requesting.
 I had an opportunity to speak with Alderman Hervey today, who's unable to attend tonight, and she wanted me to make sure everyone on council was aware that she's fully in support of this effort in providing funds to the ethnic heritage museum. She mentioned the fact that...
 Ethnic Heritage Museum put on more than a $400,000 addition recently, all with their own funds. They have not requested funds in prior years from council and just wanted Alderman to be supportive of this endeavor. ITU, consequentially, is very much in favor of the Ethnic Heritage Museum. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Alderman McNeely? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On item number two, last week I had my concerns regarding the type of business that would go there to that area, given that there's very similar, if not the same, type of business just north of there a half a block, and given the proposed development just to the east of there a half a block, right?
 I still have those concerns, but I am willing to move forward with this because our area definitely needs development there. But I'm saddened that the developer is looking at doing that type of store there. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Just a question to get on number A1, 5A1. Where's the source of funding coming from here? Mr. Cagnoni. Thank you. It's the redevelopment fund.
 It was a one-time charge, correct? That would be correct. The proposed staff recommendation is for $75,000. Thank you. Any further questions? Clerk, can you call the roll? Aye. Aye. Aye. Newberg? Aye. Two 12 ayes. Two matters pass. Alderman Newberg? Opposed in Regulation Committee, I'm asking for suspension of the rolls. Is there a second? Second.
 We have a motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5B1 through 6. All in favor of the motion say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. All in favor place those items. Place those items up for discussion. Okay. So items up for discussion on Roman numeral 5B1 through 6. Is there any discussion?
 Let me get you. Yes, I just wanted to make a clarification on the record to some of my constituents for item B3, which is a text amendment involving the requirement to put asphalt on gravel driveways. I received a number of calls saying, where people were saying, hey, I have a gravel driveway, it's going to be difficult for me to afford to pave that, which I'm very sympathetic to.
 This text amendment doesn't change that. The requirement to pave your gravel driveway already exists, and it's been on the books for, I think, a couple decades now.
 Since 1973. It's like grandfathered structures that were built prior to 1973. So what our text amendment is going to do is actually give residential and commercial properties until 2019 to perform that surfacing. So we are making a change to an ordinance that's already on the book. We are not, in fact, putting on an additional requirement. It's one that's already existed. Very good. Thank you. Alderman Beach? Let me follow up with some additional comments.
 that have been made of some of the people have gravel driveways where they are having hard enough time surviving anyway whether it's required to be done today tomorrow or 2019 last week i think there was some brief discussion about maybe there was some other arrangements to help in the funding and financing of this there's some means that has not yet been discussed to help those situations
 But if a person is below the poverty level and they have a home that got graveled, to tell them they're going to have to spend at least $9,000 to $11,000 to put in the driveway, that's about what they cost today. That I just what are we saying to those who cannot do that? Mr. Cagnoni, there was discussion last week at committee level. Do you have any further comments on that question?
 I believe the statements made related to the possibility of a program was stated by Alderman Hervey, and certainly staff would be willing to explore those opportunities with the council should that be an option they would like to pursue. Alderman Beach, did you hear the answer? I'm discussing this issue with another alderman. I'm sorry, Todd. Would you like him to repeat it or?
 Mr. Cagan, I'd like you to repeat that again. Sure, Your Honor. The conversation and statements related to a program related to gravel driveways was stated, as I recall, from Alderman Hervey. Yes. And certainly on a staff level, we'd be happy to explore what opportunities may exist should that be the will of the council. Well, thank you very much, sir. All I'm saying is that
 It's really something I wish we could really get that put down so we can understand it before we support it. Because once we vote on it, that's what it has to be, even if we come up with nothing. And I think we need to come up with something for those that cannot afford it, actually.
 Would you like to separate that part of the amendments and that grouping of amendments out? If we can lay that part of it over and move everything else forward, it's fine. But that seems to be the calls that I've been getting, like Oliver Getsch's, people say, what are we going to do? You go visit and talk to them, and it's a problem.
 Would you like that discussed back at the codes committee or you just want that laid over for two? No, we have to have further discussion on that issue, so it should come back to our committee. Okay, so the item is 50-013, surfacing, is that correct, Mr. Ryan? I can answer the question and hand it over to Mr. Ryan. Okay.
 The provision related to non-conforming uses is 80-009-D, in which that all properties with gravel driveways and or gravel parking lots shall conform with the regulations by November 1, 2019. Thank you.
 So even if this ordinance is approved as it's written, there's ample time for this council to have additional discussions on what programs they may want to put in place. To some of the earlier statements that were made this evening, the requirements for asphalt or concrete has been on the books since 1973. So it's been a number of decades in which
 There's been a situation in which individuals were required to improve their properties with asphalt or concrete. I'd also point out that should there be large projects or large properties that council wants to evaluate on a case by case basis.
 that property owner still has the right to explore variation and come before council to ask for a variation in these requirements. So I think as it's written, this was a proposal that came from one of the aldermen of the council that we could still move forward with it this evening and have ample time to bring other initiatives forward. Very good. Alderman Beach, were you willing to let it go forward this evening and have further conversations later?
 No. No? Okay. So you still want that separated out? Yes. Out of the text amendments? Yes. Holderman Getchis? It could be. If in fact, by the way, I want to point out that on a very microscopic level, passing this tonight helps one of my constituents because she's been notified by the city that she has to put asphalt on her driveway. She can't afford to do it. If we pass this, she now has until 2019.
 So, it's like everybody in the city who's not conforming is now all of a sudden granted a reprieve. Because right now, someone could come up to any gravel drive, any code inspector, and you're in violation of the code. So this is one that it actually helps out one of the people who's contacted me this week. Yes. Thank you. I have a number of gravel drives and lots in my ward.
 Quite a number that I've complained about myself and nothing ever seems to get done about them So I find it odd that you have a constituent that's facing that But do we have any idea really of the number of gravel drives and what it would cost? You know what we would be on the line for if we did want to help out people getting their gravel paved It's probably a lot Mr. Cagnoni?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I do not have an estimate on the number of gravel lots or driveways that are in existence currently. And just for clarification, you know, the text amendment doesn't give a reprieve for those illegal gravel driveways. It's the nonconforming ones that have a time period and when they come into performance. Mr. Ryan, and then come back.
 I was just going to recommend, obviously this has been on the books for quite some time, and similarly for our water system, when somebody's on a well and they can't afford to hook up to the water system, we've developed a program, a low-income program, to help and financially assist those low-income homeowners. I'd recommend that it be passed tonight, but you require city staff to come up with a program.
 within 30 or 60 days, you know, engaging our financial institutions to see if we can develop some sort of program, low-interest loans or a combination of grants with eligibility criteria for low- to moderate-income households, similar to what we did with our water system. Very good. Thank you. Is that acceptable, Alderman Beach? Okay. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 I certainly have a number of residential areas in which there are gravel driveways. I think it's a good suggestion for us as a city to try and help individuals that are financially not able to pay for the pavement of their gravel driveway. But I would hope that
 we would limit that to individuals and not to to rental property. That if it's rental property, they should be able to pay to have their driveways paved. And I would also suggest that as we look at finding the funding to help
 our constituents with the cost of the pavement that we look to maybe do something to do to have a concrete company's bid to be able to do this. So if you're looking at thousands of driveways to pave, then the cost certainly I would think go down. So as we have that discussion, I hope that we'll include that in there. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Elliott, did you have a further comment? Just a clarification on the difference between an illegal gravel driveway and non-conforming gravel driveway. Mr. Cagnoni?
 Legal being individuals that have established a gravel driveway after 1973 and not in conformance with our ordinance. Legally non-conforming or grandfathered, being that it was established prior to 1973 in conformance with the previous ordinances. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Is there any further questions? Clerk, can you call the roll? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Lea? Aye.
 McNeely? No. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. Matters passed. Thank you. All the matters passed. Thank you. Finance and Personnel Committee, all of them getches? Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items to read in, items C1, 2, and 3. C1 is the vouchers for January 30th, 2017. C2 is the 2017 budget, and C3 is the capital improvement program. I move to suspend rules on these items.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend the rules. All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Ayes have it. Thank you. And then, Your Honor, what I'm going to do is put each of these up for passage individually. There's probably going to be some discussion on a couple of them. So place up for passage item C1, the vouchers. Okay, so the items are being separated. So item number C1 is up for passage. All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed?
 Item C1 is approved. Point of order, Your Honor. I think for financial expenditures, you have a roll call. Roll call, very good. Thank you for the reminder. Clerk, can you call the roll on C1? Aye. Getschus? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Beach? Aye. Elia? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. Matters passed. Thank you. Matter passed C1. Item Getschus?
 And, Your Honor, for item C2, I move to amend the SEC for making an amendment. So I'm making a motion to amend the Section 2017 Deficit Reduction Proposal to, one, utilize $1.325 million from our general fund balance to read, utilize $1.345 million from our general fund balance. I also move to amend the 2017 Budget Committee Report by substituting the following, A through C, A, conduct partial,
 police and evidence audit. B, install records management system phase one for $775,000 which includes the consulting agreement. And C, hire six citizen reporting unit personnel for $205,000. And I place that amendment for passage. Was there a second? Second. Okay, so we have a motion to approve and a second. Discussion, please. Please. Okay.
 So, Alderman, but I also have an amendment to make to this. Do you want to wait until that passes or to vote all the amendments at one time? I think to keep it clean, people can go one at a time. One time? Okay. Is that okay? Yeah, I think procedure, we have to do one amendment at a time. Right, right. So there's one thing on the floor at any given time. Okay, Alderman Gatchas? Yes.
 So just the purpose of my amendment, the city administrator put out a letter and I recommended that amendment for the budget. So what we've done is we've allocated roughly an additional million dollars to bulk up our police department in the current budget.
 The budget that we passed out of committee has items such as a spot shot spotter and license plate readers. And the city administrator had wanted us to consider instead of going out and purchasing that equipment with going instead with the partial police and evidence audit and installing the record management system phase one.
 The six citizen reporting units of personnel is the same both in the budget that was passed out of committee and the amendment that's here in front of you. So based upon what's coming from our city administrator, I just wanted to make sure that everybody had a chance to consider it and discuss it before passing the budget. Very good. Alderman Odo. I have a question.
 I don't, I hope I heard Alderman Getchis right. We're not going to put in the extra license plate readers into this? This was a, the city administrator is recommending instead of purchasing the license plate readers and ShotSpotter, that instead we go with the records management system and the evidence audit. This is an amendment to the...
 Right. Committee report. That's what I thought I had heard, but my question is, I believe that our license plate readers are also important because they aid in the, with, when it comes to traffic stops and I mean, there's where you get the bulk of your, especially when I've talked to police
 that, you know, the traffic stops, that's where they get a lot of their warrants, drugs and guns off the street. They aid the police with reading these license plates a little bit better or whatever that program is. And the shot spotter, why are we not...
 You know, our policemen are chasing. When people call in for shots fired, you think it's in one section, but it's actually happening in another. So I just don't understand why we're not giving one or the other along with the CRU unit. Very good. I'm going to have Mr. Ryan comment, and then we'll get to Alderman McNamara. Thank you.
 You know, eliminating shot spotter and the license plate readers or video cameras, it's not that those aren't desirable or, you know, necessary down the road.
 But I wanted to remind the City Council back from Chief O'Shea's original capital budget ask that there's some foundational items that if we don't invest in, we're not going to be able to effectively manage ShotSpotter or the video cameras or the license plate readers. We currently have license plate readers deployed. I think it's fair to see how those work.
 in the field and evaluate their effectiveness before we expand it. The one thing about the capital expenditure of ShotSpotter is there's annual operating expenses that weren't in that budget recommendation that are quite extensive, six figures in some cases. On the citizen reporting unit personnel, we certainly want to have the highest customer service. But ultimately,
 The most important two items that were brought to my attention by the chief of police is one is doing an audit of our evidence and property. That's best practice as you change over a new police chief. And I felt that was very important to do.
 particularly as we move to three districts, but the installation of a new records management system is absolutely a critical non-discretionary item. And so if we're going to add a million, .3 to 5 million, actually it's a meted now to 1.345 million,
 My strong recommendation is let's buy the things that we need to buy and let's look for sponsorships or grants or drug seizure money to buy video cameras and those discretionary items.
 because a records management system, it's lived its useful life. I think O'Shea could probably elaborate more on that, but one of the things that I'm looking forward to under that new records management system is better customer service standards and response times where the new records management systems are far superior than what we have now. So that's about a $1.5 million cap
 capital item and so it's my recommendation that we allocate the first half of that expenditure in this year and then purchase purchase that system later in 2017 for full implementation in 2018 Chairman I agree that we need records manage a new record management system ours will Be pretty much extinct by the end of 2018 and
 At this time, I think we have time to look for just what City Administrator Ryan said, grants and things to find grants to utilize drug forfeiture or impounding fees for...
 the purchase of that records management. I, too, am excited about the new record management system, not just from a customer service standpoint, but the integration and collaboration that we'll be able to use with our county going to the same system, I think will be beneficial for all of us.
 I think we're at a critical junction when it comes to crime that we need more resources and technology for our officers who are on the ground today. If you look at the fact that shots fired in 2014 were 365, I should say shots fired that we know about were 365 in 2014 and 555 in 2016.
 victim struck by gunfire that we know about in 2014 was 104 and this past year was 161. I think we're at a point in our community that we have to utilize the best software and technology for our officers who are putting their lives on the line every day to make sure that we can improve our clearance rate, the ability for us to catch these bad guys, hold them accountable and then we need to advocate for stiffer sentences.
 I oppose the new amendment that we received today. I'm going to go to Alderman Beach and then Alderman Frost. Just a question as to why the record management system was not put into the budgets initially for the police departments. If the old system we had as we were preparing going forth with three was bad.
 extinct, why that wasn't put into that budget, wound into the bonds we sold to build these three stations. But now they're coming after that's done and want a million and a half, half now and half later. Who would you like to respond to that? Whoever wants to answer that question. Who would like to respond to the question? I'm going to go to the next one. Okay.
 We did not include any capital purchases in the budget as directed by council. This, we were aware and had communicated at the beginning of the budget conversation that there are a number of items, outstanding capital investments that need to be made, that we don't, didn't, that were not included in the budget, that we did not have a funding source to
 to pay for. The RMS system, CAD system for dispatching officers as well needs to be upgraded. That's included in the materials that were passed out to everyone this evening, as well as vehicle needs, facility needs. It was part of the overall capital demand that we communicated in October and said it's not in the budget. We don't have funding available to pay for it.
 Thank you. Alderman Frost. I don't mean to be critical of Ms. Eklund or anyone at the city staff, but this is an issue that is repetitive in the sense that we come to talk, we're trying to eliminate a budget deficit here, and now we find out that we need to incur a capital cost of $1.5 million for a new RMS system.
 So these are the kind of things I think that need to be more planned out over time. If, I don't know the answers, but I mean, is it something as if the software license agreement expires on December 31st, 2017 and the system shuts down? Or just is it like, you know,
 You know, an iPhone 4 versus an iPhone 7 is just maybe a little bit slower, maybe doesn't have the best features. I don't know what the differences are and maybe we can get an answer on that before we seem to be micromanaging here a little bit, the police department and how its overall budget goes.
 I think we need to have the answers to that. I think we need to hear, before we vote on the ShotSpotter, to find out will it be effective in a city like Rockford. Chicago just got it installed, I think, two weeks ago. And I know they had more than two installed there, so I guess my question on the ShotSpotter is,
 you know, is two enough? Is two, you know, is it throwing a gallon of water on a fire? I don't know the answer to it because I don't know that much about shot spotter, but yet, you know, we're being asked to vote and kind of feel like we're going down one road or the other road. It's one option or the other option. And I mean, first and foremost, I think we need to get through our budget
 deficit reduction issues and come up with a budget instead of maybe having a, not only are we trying to cut money, but we're trying to spend money on the police department. And I'm not saying it's a bad thing.
 I don't know if they're mutually exclusive or they should be inclusively together. I'd like an answer on the MRS system as far as, I'm sorry, the RMS system, the record system is to the feasibility of it, are we required by some sort of accreditation that we must shut down the system we have now or can we muster along with it in the future
 you know, technologically not feasible. And the second issue is, on the shot spotter issues, is it worth the value that it's gonna add to Rockford by having two of these put in?
 Where do we put them? I mean, is there one on the east side, one on the west side? I mean, I don't know. Is it going to go in a specific neighborhood? Can they be moved around? I don't have the, I don't know the information about it, but I mean, it is a half a million dollar expenditure in a time which we're frankly trying to find ways to cut money. Anyone who wants to answer this, feel free. The RMS system we currently have, NetRMS, goes end of life October of 2018.
 and it will no longer be functional after October of 2018. RMS migration of records will take at least a year to a year and a half. Our IT department, along with the county IT department, will be implementing the new RMS system whenever the vendor, that particular company, is chosen. It will be somewhere around $1.2 million total for an RMS system that was in the five-year capital expenditure plan that I had,
 distributed to you and you, the council, I should say, not you, but the council in September. That is a non-negotiable that has to be done. It is end of life, and it won't be functional after October of 2018. And I'm going off of what all the IT people and Motorola, who owns the system, what they're saying. So I'll trust them because I don't know that much. But October 18, it's done. Okay.
 As far as ShotSpotter, ShotSpotter comes in, that's a brand name, but gunshot detection systems. There is ShotSpotter. There's also ShotSpotters that incorporate with street light systems. ShotSpotter goes by square mile. It's not a...
 shot spotter per se it's acoustic listening devices for gunshot detection uh... the proposal that was put forward at four hundred and roughly sixty or sixty five thousand those two systems would cover three square miles uh... each system so three square miles we have areas that were
 plotted out by crime analysts on the west side and then on the east side. So each system would cover three square miles, respectively. And it's about $230,000 per system. But that's many acoustic listening devices. It's not just one tower sitting in the middle and figuring out where gunfire is. So I hope that answers your question.
 Holden, a frosted answer. I mean, I just, each one being three square miles, in your mind, Chief, is that something you think is going to make a significant difference on the ability to get to a scene quicker with our new geo-police stations where they're located and help with more arrests? Factor into this, it will get us there quicker. Yes, arguably by what we've been shown, it's instantaneous when the gunfire is picked up.
 It's recorded, the company listens to it, and then they send it to the terminals and the officers' vehicles. The statistics provided to us is we will pick up somewhere around 75% more calls for shots fired that people either, A, didn't call in for or didn't hear previously. So our shots, according to their statistics over the years,
 the shots fired will be actually picked up more than just citizens calling them in, and they have an accuracy, they sell with an accuracy of approximately 75 feet. When I was in South Bend, Indiana, who also has the system, they said they're being put right on top of the casings from the shootings within five to 10 feet.
 So, you know, what the companies say and what has happened historically, Chicago uses that, New York City uses it, San Francisco uses it, South Bend uses it. Many cities have implemented a gunshot detection system and have had success with them. But, you know, I can't, my crystal ball can't tell you how much it's going to decrease or increase our crime, if you will, or our gunshots.
 I'd like to ask the chief on this shot spotter. This is only a detection. It doesn't keep, I mean, it doesn't take pictures and say, oh, Joe, Joe Smith shot that gun. It's not a camera type thing. It's just a detection to notify you instantly when there is a.
 shot fired. Right. If you can find me the system that says Joe Smith fired about, I'll buy that one. But no, it only picks up gunshot detection and that was, the other parts of it are the cameras, the gunshots and the license plate readers. That was the whole package if you will. But again, I've got to say that RMS, October of 18, it's done. So we need to, we have to, if you can fund both, fantastic.
 Just a little quick follow-up. It's just a city is just like a household We have four or five different things that have to be done and we only have so much money so we have to decide the more important issue of Assistant that's going to be done in a year and a half and it's going to take approximately for what I understand about a year to get everything switched over and
 Right. Once we determine which RMS system we're going with with the county, and it's a long, slow process to migrate records, and that's why, by the end of the day, October of 18, we're going to have a bill. Thank you. Alderman Durkee? Chief, I just have a quick question. With the ShotSpotter, when you say success, is that an apprehension that you alluded to
 Almost an answer. Does it increase your ability to act? Is that measurable? It would be measurable, I guess, once we have it. I don't have other city statistics on how much they've actually captured people. For our purposes, collecting casings and finding casings, we track that. And through the, if you will, ballistics, but it's called NIBIN, we track casings and us collecting evidence at,
 shooting scenes helps us with intelligence and it helps us solve after the fact that helps the investigators. So collecting them is important. I have one more question, and I'm going to put you on the hot seat. We rely on your wisdom in a lot of ways, and the officers on the street. We can't do everything. Okay, we have some records management is important. The shots fired is important.
 What do you think is the most important? It depends. If you can fund records management through another funding source, great. And if you'll be able to fund it by October, that's fantastic. Then ShotSpotter is important. If not, I will go with whatever direction the council and the city administration would like me to go. RMS, October 18, is gone, and we're trying to curb violent crime.
 So my wisdom is limited to the budget, yes. Alderman Thompson-Kelly and Alderman Gutjes. Thank you. Chief, about a month ago you gave us a five-year plan on equipment and things that you wish for the police department. And tonight we received property and evidence audit,
 And now we're faced with our software needed to be updated. Could you do me a favor and update that five-year plan list and add the things that are not on it? Because I did look at it, and I thought it was a good five-year plan. But with the other things that are taking place, the need versus the want,
 It's kind of confusing where your priorities are. The five-year plan, when I gave you a five-year capital plan, Councilwoman, it was in September, I believe. And the evidence audit thing has been a memo going back and forth between myself and city administrator for many months, roughly since April or May of last year when I came here. So...
 It might priorities don't change too much and I will keep the five-year capital plan as a five-year plan and every year I'll give you another five-year capital plan laying out major expenses major expenditures Such as the radios that will be coming up in the next three years the two million dollars I will try and project as much as I can and give it to you in a timely manner So I just make it clear when we're sitting and making these decisions. It's much clearer. Thank I try my best all
 All of them to get you? Then one thing I think just to kind of clarify the way I'm looking at this decision, and hopefully takes Chief O'Shea off the hot seat of having to choose between 13 different bosses that are in the room. So $775,000.
 We're either going to spend it on records management system or we're going to spend it on ShotSpotter and LicensePlate. The way the process works, whichever we approve, the chief's going to have to come back to us next year to ask us what's going on.
 In the middle of that time, there still is the specter of the roughly $3 million worth of pension deficit that we're still going to have at the end of next year. Part of this budget and really the most important part to me is the fact that we are committing to putting together a citizen's advisory group with two aldermen, community involvement, and go out and engage our people as to what we need to do. Are there any new ideas to close our budget deficit?
 things we haven't thought of, are you willing to consider some other type of revenue source, are you willing to consider a reduction of other city services. So there's going to be a lot of community engagement coming up starting late spring, early summer of 2017.
 As that's going on, roughly June, if I'm doing the math right, is when we're going to have to start migrating records management. By that time, the chief's also going to have done his research and be able to present to us answers to several of the ultimate frost good questions on ShotSpotter. So we'll actually be able to make a decision. We'll have a better idea halfway through next year as to where we're at on the budget from our advisory group because we're going to have to do the records management system.
 So, I think that at that point we can decide, records management system or Schatzbacher, because he has to come back to us. For this, for me, this is a philosophy shift.
 Okay, we are doing something very, very aggressive with our budget. We are taking an extra million dollars and we are giving it to the police department. We're saying, please go out and help fight crime. And I'm going to say, you know, for me personally, please go out and fight crime more aggressively. All right, so personally I'm going to support some of this technology that's going to go out there and attempt to locate and arrest these criminals in a more proactive fashion. All right, I'm going to say that, although it's possible
 if I'm still standing here come June or July, that we may get to the point where we say, hey, we've taken a look, but we just can't afford it. But right now, I look at this as a policy decision, and one that we could and may have to change later on down the line.
 All right, because we are in this budget making a lot of one-time decisions to give ourselves time to engage our constituents and then move forward with a longer-term plan. So I don't think that either thing we do tonight is going to tie our hands. So for me, I'm going to support Alderman McNamara, and I'm going to say that this is a policy decision, but I do know that from a fiscal responsibility standpoint, it's one that I still have the opportunity to back down from.
 Very good. Alderman Oto? I understand about the record management. I know that it is imperative, but what I also heard the Chief say is that another tool in fighting crime and bringing down some of the violent crime is the ShotSpotter. Now we've been on this council for four years and we have always found money for special interest stuff that could have waited.
 So why don't we consider this a special interest and let's find some money to get this in because that is what I heard the chief say. We've got a lot of violent crime. I mean, I listen to the news. Shots fired, shots fired. I hear shots fired and I call it in. But when I'm asked by dispatch, where is it coming from? I can't say where, except one time when it was on Ohio Parkway and I heard it as clear as day.
 So record management is imperative and we do have to get it. But maybe we can dig up a little bit more money and let's find a way to get that shot spotter for the chief. Because I can guarantee we're not going to find it next year. We're not going to find it the year after. We're always going to come up with some reason why we can't afford it because it's too expensive.
 So we've got to find it. And I suggest we do it now because what's happening is we have citizens who are angry. And I don't know about you, but I get a lot of calls. And a lot of shots have been fired in my ward. And people are getting really uncomfortable. And people are leaving. And people are scared. We've got a new chief to move this department forward. But I see us kind of putting a little bit of a brick wall in front of them.
 So although the records is important and we must do it, let's make the ShotSpotter like a little pet project and let's come up with that money. I'll bet we could. Let's find it and let's do it because I've got my residents who want it. Very good. Thank you.
 Any further questions or comments? I'm sorry. I just thought about it. What about the drug seizure money and anything like that? Is there enough in the till to do this with and then add a little more? As Alderman Getchis had stated, we're coming up with this board of two aldermen and community members to discuss all these options of how to find these funds. So that will be addressed. Thank you.
 So I'm going to have the clerk call the roll on this amendment. Aye. No. McNamara? No. Frost? Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Odo? Newberg? Beach? No. Elliott? McNeely? Chiarelli? No. Two ayes, ten noes. The matter fails. The amendment fails. Your Honor, that puts us back to the original budget for passage. I believe that Alderman Thompson-Kelley had an amendment or motion she wanted to make.
 Thank you. Council Kelly. Mine go to animal services. And item number three, the amusement tax increased to 5%. What's the difference between the 5% amusement tax and animal services? Who are you directing the question to? Whoever could know how to answer. Is that correct?
 would expand our current amusement tax to more venues and generate, right now the existing amusement tax is remitted back to Rave as part of their operating funds. Now we estimate that expanding that to places like movie theaters would generate additional revenue for the city that's completely independent of the animal services item.
 Okay, thank you for that explanation. I'd like to make an amendment to increase the reduction to animal services $200,000 versus $150,000. And my reason for that is we have to establish a new intergovernmental agreement with animal services. We have not had one since 2011.
 With the new chairman and things ahead of us, I feel very confident that we can come out with a very decent agreement. And I'm also going to recommend that at least two aldermen be in the negotiations of a new animal service contract
 Because if we go in with X number of dollars for animal services, we can tailor our services and our needs to those particular dollars. And that's why I think that we need to increase the deduction up to $200,000. So, if I understand your amendment is to increase from $150,000 to $200,000? Yes. Very good. Is there a second to that amendment?
 Second. Okay, so we have a motion to amend and a second. Discussion? Let's see right now. It's 150. Yes. I have actually a question for the finance director. If that's increased or decreased, that would throw the revenue side out of whack, wouldn't it, by 50,000?
 The proposal, as was presented by the group of aldermen, was to increase the charge that's assessed by Winnebago County Animal Services by $5 countywide that was estimated to generate an additional $150,000 in revenue to the county that would offset the city's subsidy payment.
 So we would reduce the appropriation for animal services by $150,000. The county would charge us that much less. So we would either need to, and I believe that Alderman Thompson-Kelly would like to simply reduce
 the subsidy without instituting the additional fee and negotiate with animal services to get the total cost to provide service to the city down to that appropriated level, if I'm understanding. Would that in turn reduce the drawdown from one of the funds on the other side of the balance sheet? This is general fund, so we would be, it would
 But we'd have extra $50,000, then? We would, yes, we would. And we can adjust the general fund drawdown appropriately. Correct. That's what I was asking. Yes, I apologize. I apologize. I did not make myself clear on that. It is to eliminate the fee that was proposed for that $150,000 where we won't have an additional fee to our taxpayers.
 and reduce our expenditures to the animal control services. Very good. I didn't say that. I'm sorry. Is there any questions on that amendment from any of the council members? Hearing none, may the clerk call the roll on the amendment? No. Getses? No. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Connell? Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Beach? Elliott? Aye.
 Mealy cheer Ellie I went where your honor yes, I misspoke when I voted please record me tonight Register all the maga chases. Yes, the vote result then is ten eyes two nose Question yes, I just need clarification, please the budget
 recommendations before us tonight do not include a vehicle license fee correct correct thank you very good so Alderman Getsch us we do have now we have an amended committee report that's correct your honor I place item of Charlie to as amended upper passage
 Very good. Is there any further discussion on the amended committee report, C2? I'm sorry. You should ask for a rule suspension on the amended committee report now. We've got our move for suspension of rules item, Charlie. She was amended. We have a motion and a second to suspend the rules. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Now we can place up for passage. Our item's up for passage. Very good. Discussion? Alderman Elliott. Aye.
 One more question about, so we'll be voting then on the shot spotters and the license plate readers, right? Okay. Do we, are those...
 things able to be used right away or is there other expenditures that we'd have to make in order for these, the ShotSpotter or the license plate reader system to be fully activated? Would you like the Chief to answer? Yes, please. Whoever is capable. Chief?
 The systems would have to be implemented. I mean, it would take a couple months because we'd have to do RFP. You'd have to go through the whole process. You'd have to do the installation. But when they're up and running, you receive the information immediately.
 Alderman Goetzes. I think to clarify Alderman Elliott's question, what she's asking is, okay, we're going to if we authorize these, we're not going to find out, oh, by the way, you need $3 million worth of laptops to actually use it. There's no other, because I'm authorizing this, I'm incurring some other, I have to do X, Y, or Z that's going to cost more than what we're seeing right now. Right. Exactly. Yes, that's my concern with A, B, and C, the cameras. I would like to see all of these things in place, but I just want to know.
 up front if there would be even more money that we'd have to spend to make it all operational.
 The final cost from everything, all the way would be through an RFP. Everything we've given is a rough ballpark for license plate readers of $20,000. We just bought two of them for mobile use for the cars, the four camera systems. The cameras, the PTZ cameras, estimating $5,000 per camera per intersection. It's based on previous intersections that are tied into fiber cable systems and
 So there could be some variances. I couldn't give you anything definitive until we actually put something out to companies. The ShotSpotter, the 230, that's based on every square mile is billed at a certain percentage for them to install it and then hook the system in so that is an all-inclusive price on that. But the other ones, I'd have to wait until we had RFPs to give you actual final numbers. But we would never go over whatever you guys allow us.
 Very good. Thank you. Alderman Connell. Hi. Since I'm going from page to page to page, which starts to get confusing when you can't have it printed, I just want to make sure that there are no additional hidden taxes for our people besides that 5% amusement tax. There's everything else that was discussed in the past, just like...
 just like everybody down the line has stated, that we know that there's nothing that we're hiding, there's nothing else. Other than the fee increases, the fee schedule increases that were approved in November and implemented, we did those previously so that they would go into effect for the January water billing cycle. But other than that, the only thing in this proposal that you're approving tonight is the amusement tax. Thank you.
 Any further questions? Hearing none, call the roll. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Ryan? Just want to remind you all that the ShotSpotter budget does not include the annual operating budget and costs that you'll incur from the time of implementation going forward, so you're going to have to consider that in the budget as you go forward. Very good, thank you.
 Clerk, call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Duchess. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes, one no. The order passes. Thank you. Item number three. Yes, Your Honor. I place up item Charlie 3, the 2017 to 2021 capital improvement program.
 Did we need a motion to suspend on that also? Oh, yes. Your Honor, I've already previously suspended rules. That's already passed. So item number three is up for passage. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, call the roll. Etches. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. It's an action. The CIP. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. McMilley. Cheerleling. Aye. Ten ayes, two noes. This is the second roll of the etches.
 We'll move on to Roman numeral six, officer reports. I have one item to report this evening. It's from Mayor Morrissey. It's a memorandum and it stated, I hereby appoint the airport authority board of commissioners with your approval, Patrick H. Agnew. Mr. Agnew will finish the term left vacant by Jeffrey Lee, who resigned from the board on July 31st, 2016. Mr. Agnew's term will expire June 2020.
 Mr. Agnew's resume is attached for your review. Pursuant to the City Code Section 2-42, Rule 18, this appointment will be laid over for 30 days. Officers' reports, Alderman Odo. Yes, I would like to thank George Golreb with ComEd.
 As of late, I've had some issues with some straight lights, lights out. They've been tended to quickly, where there have been other issues, where it might have been some wiring in the lights. George has always called me to keep me abreast of it, and he has taken care of that within a timely manner. So I would like to say thank you to ComEd for that.
 responding to the issues in a timely manner. Very good. Alderman McNamara. I just wanted to thank City Administrator Jim Ryan for the tremendous years of service he has given to our city. I would say Jim has always had Rockford in his heart, and more than that, honestly, he's a true Rockford historian and has led our city
 in multiple different positions through very difficult projects and just really appreciate the service he's given to our community.
 Very good. Officer report for Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you. I also want to say it's been a long time, Jim. We've worked together on so many projects. But he's not going far. He's just going down the street. I want to acknowledge that I will be having a luncheon for the 7th Ward residents February 11th.
 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Granny's Restaurant at 3605 Auburn Street. Again, that's February the 11th, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. But I also want to say to my colleagues
 as well as the administration, especially the finance department. Once again, I sit here and we've gone through a budget. I do appreciate the fact that we've had input from the alderman as well as staff members and been able to
 explain, get explanations, and go through this budget process because it's very important that everyone's voice is heard. And I do appreciate the extra effort that Carrie has done along with her staff in preparing us for this budget and getting the info... See, I'm thanking you. You're not even in here. And thanking her and her staff for the information because 14 individuals requesting information is not an easy task.
 I also want to thank Alderman McNamara for putting forth his suggestions so we had the opportunity to discuss them. It says a lot that we balanced our budget even though the deficit that we had and we did it on time. So I want to thank all of you for that. Thank you. For the Office's report, Alderman Getschis.
 Yes, and I too want to echo the thanks expressed by both Alderman Thompson-Kelly and Alderman McNamara. First, to Administrator Ryan, it's absolutely fantastic working with you and this being my first term. And when you come on to the City Council, there's all sorts of things you learn about being an alderman that you didn't necessarily know when you're on the campaign trail. And, you know, hey, certain information, you know, the history of how things went on and, you know,
 You did an absolutely fantastic job helping me and my colleagues through the process so that we could, I think, truly have an opportunity to contribute to the city. You've been an absolutely fantastic public servant. I know there's been a lot of sacrifices that you've made, that your family has made. My deepest thanks to you and to them. Also the finance director, Eklund, is probably going to ...
 sleep in a little bit later and show up to work a little bit later tomorrow because finally the budget is over. Fantastic job and thank you. Once again, real pleasure working with you and also our Public Works Director Matt Fittner getting the capital improvement plan passed. I know it's a big effort for you and your staff and thank you for all of the work and answering all my questions and I really do appreciate that.
 Alderman Frost? I feel like it's a roast now about Mr. Ryan, but I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Ryan about 20 years ago. And I believe Jim has worked under what, three different mayors here? City Council, everyone just assumes that he's Mayor Morrisey's pick, but he was here under Mayor Box and Mayor Scott and obviously under Mayor Morrisey in a wide capacity.
 And as Alderman McNamara said, he always put the city of Rockford and its interests first and wore it on his sleeve. And Jim had the task of having to tell a lot of folks no over the last week.
 And that's a tough job to do, but Jim did it always with a level of professionalism and fairness that made our city run smooth. And so whoever the next mayor of this city is and whoever this next council is, Jim, you will be sorely missed. Good luck to you. Very good. Alderman Newberg. Thank you.
 I also being a new alderman would like to thank all of the department heads for answering my sometimes as I call them I've got a dumb question guys ladies but everyone has stepped
 Even if they gave me figures I really didn't like, at least they gave me figures that goes for the fire and police also. I think the only department that I did not have to ask questions of was the IT, and I hate computers so I don't know. But I again want to thank everyone for their patience in helping me understand and being able to make a decision.
 somewhat intelligent decision on our budget. It's a lot of money. Still throws me when I say the figures out loud because my household isn't that big. But also to Jim, thank you for being there and answering, again, questions and helping. You will be sorely missed, but I know you're going to do good. Very good. Further officers' reports?
 Okay, we'll move on to Roman numeral seven which is motions and resolutions planning and development committee item under Roman numeral 7a It's the resolution of support for the complete streets policy the place set up for passage for passage is Roman numeral 7a one resolution of the support for complete streets policy is that a role or a voice? I
 Voice call? It could be a voice call. Voice? Is there any questions? Alderman Thompson-Kelly. This is a question I don't have in front of me. Does it clearly state that each project has to have the approval of the full city council? This one. I'm sorry, I didn't. Who's answering the question? Mr. Bednar? The city council has to approve every project that we do.
 Does it clearly state in this ordinance that... All this policy does is tell the staff and developers that come forward to the city, gives them a guide and what their expectations are to study as part of a potential project. It doesn't say these elements must be incorporated into any given project. Thank you. Alderman Newberg? Does your state advocate?
 It doesn't the policy doesn't state that any particular element has to be incorporated into a project But every project must be brought forward to City Council for your approval. Wow, please. Yes, okay I I understand the concept but does this is this Does this mean that all of our streets the older streets in the older neighborhoods have to be brought up to that if they are? or
 if they are improved on? It doesn't say that at all. It says we will study this in context with the maturity of the neighborhood. In some cases, we may want to pay homage or respect the historic nature of certain neighborhoods and not just come through with a standard template. That's why every project will be considered on the individual merits of incorporating certain elements for pedestrians, bikes, and vehicular traffic.
 Any further questions? Alderman McNamara? I just want to state that I don't know if everyone's read all the documents that we've received on this, but I really support the Complete Streets model and the policy.
 And I just want to read something briefly here that the complete streets policy recognizes the need to develop safe efficient accessible integrated multimodal Transportation network that balances the need and desire for access mobility economic development and aesthetics while providing the health and well being for people of all ages and and abilities I think it's just
 This policy is something for our community to aspire to and I think knowing that we can Approve and and or reject any of the streets that come before us. I think this policy is something worthy of our support Thank you Alderman Durkee use a lens by which we see our city and improve our city And it's not just about aesthetics. It's about usage and combined and
 how we transport ourselves across the city. One of the ideas I had years ago that crashed and burned that's actually included in Complete Streets is speeds. In the city of Rockford, our residential speeds are 30 miles an hour. I'm a physician and we have a paramedic also behind us. At 30 miles an hour, 50%, there's a 50% risk of severe injury and a 25% risk of death.
 At 20 miles per hour, it's 15% severe injury and 5% death. So Complete Streets looks much more at street lights and things like that. It's how we convey people on bikes, pedestrians, and things like that. At 50 miles per hour, there's no chance you get hit by a car. Yet we have bike paths that cross the Autobahn of Perryville and the Autobahn of Spring Creek Road.
 So it is a lens that is important that we do. And it's something we aspire to do, but obviously certain things can't be done everywhere. But at least it gives us an idea, a formula, and a paradigm that we can improve our community. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, all in favor of Roman numeral 7A1, say aye. Aye. Opposed? No. Could you raise your hands who opposed? Request to oppose.
 Okay, requesting roll call. Clerk. Berkey. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. Nine ayes, three noes. The matter passes.
 Is there any code and regulations? I don't see any this evening. We'll move on to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Getchis. Thank you, Your Honor. The honor likes to place up the pad for passage item Roman numeral 7, items C, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. Alderman Getchis, I believe item 8 is being held now until later this evening. Okay. Is that correct? We would like to do a full session on item 8 if we could pass that until the end of the evening. So I...
 then your honor i'll place up for passage item uh c one two three four five six and seven thank you items up for passage or roman number seven c one two three four five six and seven any discussion on those items i just had a question uh for legal director uh if we've received any information
 From the Rockford Airport in regards to their ability to pay back or a letter stating that they could potentially pay us back Thank you Monday all the Mac America did contact the attorney for the airport Via email and asked him for a letter from the airport stating that they owe the city the $2.5 million and their willingness to pay that back and
 He did respond to me almost immediately within an hour or two saying that he's still willing to provide that letter and they would put a draft together for our approval. So as soon as I get that, I'll bring it immediately to the council. Do you need further discussion? Call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschus. Aye. McNamara. No 1-6, I never named him. Frost. No 1-2, 6, I never named him. Connell. Thompson-Kelley.
 Newberg Beach Ellie a McNeely cheerily I I was number one three four five seven twelve eyes item number two eleven eyes one No item number six eight eyes four nose Legislative lobbying committee frost
 McGuire Woods, and specifically our lobbyist, Michael Cassidy, for the 2017 lobbying services for the same fee as last year at the cost of $10,000 per month. I place that item up for passage. Thank you. D-1 is up for passage. Is there a discussion on this item? Hearing none, clerk, call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Odo.
 Uber Beach Ellie a McNeely cheer Ellie 11 ice one no Roman numeral eight new business any development
 A. The first one is an ordinance approving the proposed development agreement with Ethnic Heritage Museum for Ethnic Heritage Museum Campus in acquisition of the Graham Genestra House at 1515 South Main Street. Is that a motion, Alderman Frost? A. A-2.
 An ordinance approving the proposed development agreement with First Midwest Group, also McChesney Investments LLC for the construction of a commercial retail node, including DaVita Dialysis Medical Services Center at the northwest corner of West State Street and North Springfield Avenue. First, I'd like to suspend rolls on those two items. Second.
 We have a motion to suspend the rules on the Roman numeral 8, A1 and 2. All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Ayes have it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. And then I'd like to place those two items up for passage. Up for passage is Roman numeral 8, A1 and 2. Any discussion? Hearing none, clerk call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Aye.
 Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes. Matter passes. Both matters pass. Thank you. Alderman Newberg. I would like to suspend the rules on 8B1 through 7. Motion and second to suspend the rules. All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Ayes have it. Any discussion? Is there any discussion on Roman numeral 8B1 through 7? Hearing none.
 Clerk, call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. Frost. Aye. McNamara. Connell. Thompson-Killing. Odom. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. . Elia. McMilley. Chiarelli. Aye. Your Honor. Yes. . Clerk, can you recall the roll? Durkee. Getschis. Aye. McNamara.
 Frost. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Someone be one. Elliott. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. Item number one, 11 ayes, one no. Items two, three, four, five, six, seven, 12 ayes. This matter is crossed. Woman number nine, Alderman McNamara. Yes, sir. Woman number nine, Alderman McNamara.
 Your Honor, Roman numeral VIII, item C1. Very good. Your Honor, Roman numeral VIII, item C1, the 2017 budget appropriation ordinance as amended. I move to suspend rules on this item. Very good. We have a motion to suspend rules. All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Ayes have it. Your Honor, I place this item up for passage. The item is up for passage. Any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, call the roll.
 Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. 10 ayes, 1 no. Oh, I didn't see you. 12 ayes. Very good. Matter passes. Budget is passed. Thank you. Now Alderman McNamara. Aye.
 Thank you, Chairman. I would move that we go into closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation. Very good. Do we have a second? Second. Okay. Clerk, call the roll. Durkee. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. McMillan. Aye.
 Sheerally. Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. We're going to close session.