To berg Serena Frenzy Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks Bonnie Hey president excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve that? Well, I should state we've already done invocation in the pledge Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 9th? 2023 we have a motion. We have a second any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye aye Those opposed next is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 17th 2023 we have a motion we have a second or any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed Okay, next is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on January 23rd of 2023 we have a motion We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Excellent. We have no proclamations this evening, so we'll go right to petitions and communications. There's nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee. like we have five items item number one is a memorandum from jacob rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 2162 lamar avenue referred to code and regulation committee item two a memorandum from martin bloom project manager permits and special events regarding the rockford city market referred to code and regulation committee item three traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on february 8 2023 And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on February 27th, 2023 referred to code and regulation committee. Memorandum from John assistant city attorney regarding a proposed amendment to the city of Rockford code of ordinances for chapter 17. Nuisance driving on the public way referred to code and regulation committee. Lastly item 5 memorandum from Scott Capavilla planning and zoning manager regarding the plat of quick trip store number 7206 subdivision for Dakota regulation committee. Thank you. Thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman to Merck We have a memorandum from Jennifer catch Paglia mayor of office of domestic and community violence prevention regarding the approval of children's home and aid sub award agreement referred to finance and personnel committee Thank You alderman We've already completed public speakers, so we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Planning and Development Committee, item number one, committee recommends approval of the 2023-2025 funding agreement between the City of Rockford and Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So there's one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? No. Alderman Rose? Yeah, I was just wondering if they had checked in with the Park District on the issue with the televisions. Director Franzen? So we haven't had a chance to directly follow up in terms of the evidence that the Park District is seeing in terms of dumping of TVs, but we'll continue to and appreciate the comments at the committee hearing. Okay. Any other questions? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Prunty, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, Bonney, Ten-Ice. Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for an auto repair facility in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 601 West Jefferson Street. Augustine Sevilla is the applicant. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. That was item number one. Item number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink, Class L50. In conjunction with the tavern and video gaming terminals in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 315 South Main Street, Wood and Brick, Inc., doing business as Wood and Brick Tavern, is the applicant. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 3. Item 4. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink, Class WB 50, in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming terminals in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 3605 Auburn Street. Tapiria La Catrina is the applicant. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these three items before you. Thank you. So there's three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bonney. Aye. Item number two, no. Item number one, ten ayes. Item number two, nine ayes, one no. Item eight, I'm sorry, item three, eight ayes, two noes. Excellent. Thank you. We'll move on to finance and personnel committee and alderman to work Number one committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of ten million two hundred seventy one thousand seven hundred fourteen dollars Eighty two cents has approved at the finance personnel committee meeting held on January 23rd 2023 item number two committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the state of illinois for the alpine road resurfacing project from south of harrison avenue to charles street for a total cost of 1 million 725 thousand dollars the cost breakdown is as follows federal 80 state 20 city 10 percent uh total projected cost 1 million 725 000 The costs of this agreement are estimated. Once the state awards the project, city staff will further inform council if the city's participating actual costs are more than $25,000. Then the estimated costs of this agreement, funding sources, motor fuel tax funds. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number three, approval to submit to the Office of Head Start for budget revisions to the Head Start Early Start. Early Head Start 2022-2023. Budgets to purchase playground expansion at the Early Head Start Parent and Child Education Center, previously approved by Council, and the purchase of five vehicles, one for Head Start, three for Early Head Start, one shared maintenance van. The budget revisions to purchase playground expansion and the purchase of five vehicles are Early head start 2223 budget reallocation $285,400 to equipment from 125,000 for personal new equipment to cover the playground 85,000 for fringe benefits for the purchase of three vehicles 65,000 from other for the purchase three vehicles 10,400 from contractual for the shared cost of maintenance van and head start 2022 2023 budget reallocating 79 600 to equipment from 79 600 from personal to equipment the purchase of one vehicle and the shared cost of maintenance van the legal director shall prepare the appropriate order thank you we have uh three items before us any discussion on those three items clerk will you please call the roll or i'm sorry alderman beach thank you so much uh just I'm reading what it says here regarding the over the overrun the 25,000 But how is it that we have to come to an agreement? That's really not settled voting on an estimate I mean, I know it's saying that it doesn't run more than 25,000 That's what it's going to be, but it could be more than that and then I guess it comes back here again, right? Is that what it is? I'm sorry. I don't understand your question. Oh the question your honor is is that the costs in this agreement that we're voting on. Which number are you? Oh, I'm sorry, sir, two. Okay. The C2 is estimated, and that always just concerns me a bit. When we're going to vote on something that's just estimated, it could be a million more. It could be 20,000 more. It could be less. So I just was concerned as to. Director Saunders. thank you mayor um alderman beach on this particular item the only cost the city's bearing as part of this iga is the 6 491 cost to relocate the emergency vehicle preemption equipment that's on i believe two traffic signals so the likelihood of us going over significantly is very very low we've done quite a few of these with the state in the last couple years with just moving this evp equipment and a lot of times that that cost estimate comes in lower than what we anticipated because we are marking it up a little bit. In the event that it did come in greater than $25,000, we do have our internal change order policy that would drive whether that's an info only change order or coming back to council before authorizing, so. Okay, that's fair, thank you. Yeah, no, good question, thank you. Alderman Thunberg. Thanks, Mayor. If Director Saunders could also clarify on the 80-20-10, uh because i had described it 80 2010 which would be 110 and i know we always like to give 110 percent in our work uh you may want to clarify that on the Memo here. Director Saunders. So to answer your first question, yes we do like to give 110% in everything that we do. In this particular situation, the funding stack for the signal costs will be 80% federal, 10% state, 10% city. So the total for the signal cost is 100%, whereas the federal is picking up 80% of that total cost. And the effort's 110. Yes. Okay. Exactly. Any other questions? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. 11 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to Legislative and Lobbying Committee. Alderman Bonney. I'm sorry. Four. Four. Why do I not see this? Oh, got it. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mayor. Legislative and Lobbying Committee has one item on the agenda, an ordinance approving the renewal of a professional services contract with Zephyr Government Strategies for the amount of $10,000 per month for 2023 lobbying services. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Kenosha makes McNeely Bonnie ten eyes one no Excellent next we have officers reports. Is there any report often? Thank you mayor. I have three great things tonight First of all, I'd like to thank the mayor and Jennifer catch up I owe you for the listening sessions that have been held We are doing a lot of wonderful things in this city, but the listening sessions are showing us a lot where there are holes so that we can address those people also. And we've been listening to kids. I listened to four young men who are actually helping other young men turn their lives around. And I have to tell you, after being at these listening sessions, I'm getting really filled with hope for our community because I'm seeing all the wonderful people that are doing a lot of work. We just have to find out where we missed a spot. Um next I want to really thank kyle saunders for the quick removal of graffiti in my neighborhood It was pretty awful. It went from 20th street all the way to East gate and they went all over a sign that we had Written a grant for and everything and he got his folks out there fast and they saved the sign And so we're very very grateful for that The next thing is I am very grateful to the governor for approving Alpine. I'm grateful to all of the elected representatives and Senator Stoudelman who worked on this but I'm really grateful to the mayor and to Bianca Pritchett. Most of you have never heard of her. This whole project actually started with her. Her husband Justin was a young man just trying to cross the street to go and work out at one of the places over there in Alpine Village. He went at night, he was struck, carried 40 feet, and it made Bianca a widow. Her grief was devastating, but she decided to do something positive with it, and she started by asking for more lighting at that place. intersection where he crossed and I have to thank Kyle again and we got lighting up there additional lighting very quickly But once she saw that as a success she went on and she showed me other streets At least one other street that didn't have lighting and we got a light up there very quickly. I But once she got that, she really got motivated and started telling me about other problems, and one of which was my neighborhood has changed and we needed more bus routes. I called the bus company, and they would not put in, not more bus routes, more bus stops. They told me they would not put any in because I didn't have a safe place for those bus stops, and we needed sidewalks. So I went to Kyle yet again. who then explained the whole process to me about it was a state road and the state would put them in when they actually fix the road and then i contacted alderman bonnie to find out when that might be and it was sometime between 2030 and 2040. meantime meanwhile i have this horrible problem with people trying to get to work and everything without adequate transportation. One thing led to another, and the mayor jumped in. And that's when all of this came about, and now we have the governor saying that we are going to get this work done. But just so folks know, this started with one woman who in her grief decided to do something positive that her husband would be remembered for. And that is the rebuilding of Alpine and getting in the lights. And we are very grateful to Bianca Pritchett for stepping up and getting this accomplished. And to the mayor for following through for her. Thank you. Thank you. Alderwoman Trina and then Alderman Canunas. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. First, I just want to say happy Black History Month. It was nice to hear from the chaplain just to pray for leaders. A lot of times we don't really get that. We get more sometimes it's negative feedback versus somebody just saying, I just want to pray for you. So I appreciated that. I wanted to speak on an event that I'm really proud to be a part of. It's called Black Winter. It is a formal gala in celebration of black scholarship, which will be held February 25th this month at the Rockford Art Museum. I have partnered with State Representative Maurice West, Community Foundation of Northern Illinois, Wabango Leadership Council, and Urban Intellectuals. We will be raising that money that evening to fund scholarships for local black students. I've had the pleasure of being a reader, a scholarship reader for the Community Foundation for about three, I think this is probably my fourth year. But as we were reading scholarships last year, someone made the comment that there doesn't seem to be a lot of scholarships specifically for black males. And it was told to us that they actually, they exist but they currently aren't funding. and also that more funding needed to be added just to make them larger dollar amounts so that students could, into perpetuity, have these scholarships, have access to them. So we kind of teamed together and are creating this event to raise money. So I just want to bring awareness to that event. If you have any questions, want to buy tickets or make a donation, please contact me, but we are looking forward to having a fabulous event. So just thank you to everyone that's been involved with the project and to the Rockford Art Museum for Donating their facility to us in kind. Thank you. Thank you alderman can you honest? Yes Thank you for letting me speak your honor but I like to thank Carol Saunders and the public works department for doing an outstanding outstanding job on a major snowfall we had recently and The people sent out their sincere thanks and 11th Ward in the city of Rockford. Thank you Thank You mayor I just wanted to wish a happy 63rd wedding anniversary to alderman Beach and his wife Sonia number of us attended a anniversary party That was held at does it cross point church in his ward and Your ward, right? Yeah. On Saturday. I know Alderman Quinonez was there because as he always uses an excuse that he can't attend anything in the 14th ward because he doesn't want to cross Alpine Road. which is my segue into just seconding everything that Alderman Hoffman had to say about the Alpine Road Project. Of course, the section is being resurfaced as the border between our wards and where the fatality occurred is the border between our wards. Although it was awful long, and I hate to endorse every single word you said, she's right, it was an unmarked... State route is low prior was a low priority for a state. So it was a heavy lift for everybody who she mentioned to Participated in getting it to where where it is now where it will be resurfaced in the spring or the summer Thank you. Thank you and I'll just add to that Congratulations to Alderman Beach one of the things I learned this weekend from Alderman Beach was I met Sonya on a blind date, he asked her to marry her on the first date. I mean, you knew what would work, and it worked. So congratulations. That's amazing. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. I just, too, wanted to mention a few things. The first one is just around Black History Month. I know a lot of people kind of take it for granted, but as a former social studies black history teacher, I think it's important for us to recognize the city of Rockford and the contributions of black Americans in our community, specifically one that I think stands out is one of our founding fathers, Lewis Lemon, who was a black man. who was a slave and purchased his own freedom through that time. My understanding is that he went on to hold various businesses that he ran here locally. And so, you know, I guess my challenge for our region is to tell those stories to our youth and share in the fact that one of our founding fathers in our community is a black man who, without him, maybe, you know, the founding of Rockford doesn't happen or doesn't happen in the way it was. So. But I just think that's one of the telling stories about not only Rockford but Illinois and our celebrations as a diverse community. We see some of the things going on around the country where black history is not being celebrated, where in many cases it's being, it's just sad to see what's happening in some of the other areas across the country. I did want to say thank you to you, Mayor, for coming to our NESNA celebration or our neighborhood group to talk to residents about different major issues facing the city of Rockford and to the Rockford Police Department for having the many officers there to talk about different issues. I got a bunch of correspondence over the weekend with the news that William Jones was captured down in Alabama. And so kudos to the police department and those business owners that helped put a reward out for the capture of him, but also for those people who offered tips. Thank you. and worked with police to get out information, whether it was finding video or pictures of him, for witnesses that stepped up and provided information about that situation, and for our police department that put in a lot of work to get that information out. I think it really truly is one of those stories that will hopefully bring justice to the victim, Peggy Anderson. And I just wanted to say thank you to our police department for that. Thank you any other reports seeing none. We'll move on to motions and resolutions We have nothing under planning and development or code and regulation So we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman toonberg Alderman toonberg is about to find out why alderman frost is absent tonight exactly. I wondered why he's out gallivanting anywhere but here so now I'm finding out we have 12 items and starting it off Number one, committee recommends approval of an award of bid, 1322 Broadway Demolition to End Track Group of Loves Park, Illinois, in the amount of $36,312. The project is estimated to be completed by April 14, 2023. The funding source is American Rescue Plan Act Fund. Number two, committee recommends approval of an award of bid, Well 34 Water Treatment Facility to Scandrolli Construction of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $8,980,308.51. Project is estimated to be completed by July 1, 2024. The funding sources, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency State Revolving Fund. Item number three, committee recommends approval of an award of engineering agreement construction inspection. Well 34 water treatment facility to Fairgrame and Associates of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $479,535. The project is estimated to be completed by fall 2024. The funding source is Illinois Environmental Protection Agency State Revolving Fund. Item number four, committee recommends approval of an award of RFP. Rockford unregulated containment monitoring rule 5 testing services to pace analytical services of Peoria, Illinois for an estimated value of twenty seven thousand four hundred thirty six dollars based on unit pricing contract duration is through April 30th 2027 or the duration of the UCM are five the funding sources water fund operating budget and item number five committee recommends approval of an award of professional services 2023 water system improvements fair graham of rockford illinois for an estimated annual budget of 900 000 based on hourly rates the contract duration is 12 months with an option to extend for two one-year periods by mutual consent of both the city and the consultant in january 2024 and january 2025 funding sources water replacement improvement account item number six Committee recommends approval of an award of non-competitive contract traffic signal electronic equipment to mobile treks mobility and traffic experts of Davenport, Iowa for an estimated annual value of $300,000. The contract duration is one year. Funding source is traffic division operating budget. Committee recommends approval of an award of joint purchasing contract for a salt storage structure to clear span building structures of South Windsor, Connecticut in the amount of $310,000. The funding sources American Rescue Plan Act funds. Committee recommends number eight committee recommends approval of an award of non-competitive contract police portable radios and accessories to Motorola of Schaumburg Illinois in the amount of eight hundred nine thousand seven hundred seventy six dollars and sixty four cents funding sources police department operating budget item nine committee recommends approval of the supplemental resolution approving the appropriation of an additional 53,000 $162 and 48 cents of motor fuel tax funds to be used for region one planning council and fiscal year 2023 funding total amended motor fuel tax authorization is 129 thousand four hundred fifty four dollars and forty eight cents item number ten committee recommends approval of the appropriation of motor fuel tax funds to be used for alpine road resurfacing in the amount of ten thousand dollars Item number 11, committee recommends approval of the appropriation of motor fuel tax funds to be used for transportation planning services for fiscal year 2024 in the amount of $91,308.49. Last but not least, Item Number 12, Approval of Acceptance of Project Safe Neighborhoods 2022, grant from the U.S. Department of Justice in the amount of $132,171. The grant does not require a cost match, and the grant term is from 1-1-23 through 12-31-24. The purpose of the grant is to implement one or more effective strategies to prevent, respond to, and reduce violent crime. That's all she wrote. Mayor, thank you. Thank you alderman timber so we have 12 items before us alderwoman Trina Can someone please refresh my memory on item number nine why we're giving our one an additional 53,000 a year, please. Thank you Director Saunders Thank You mayor Alderman Trina it's not 53,000 a year it is an additional 53,000 for fiscal year 23 I Our one is our metropolitan planning organization. So we pay them for quarterly payments and historically Before the census the new census data came out that annual Fee for us was right around $70,000 when the new census came out those calculations were adjusted our annual cost did go up slightly so that 53,000 reflects six payments because when we were made aware of that new a annual rate we didn't have enough on the the resolution the MFT resolution to make those payments so rather than doing nine different things Simultaneously we just adjusted the fiscal year 23 to reflect six payments and then a item later on here is for fiscal year 24 Which reflects four payments so that will go on to a normal four quarterly cycle it. I think it's right around $91,000 a year. Okay. Thank you. Thank you in alderman Beach I Thank you, Your Honor. So that response would also be true for number 11 on that agenda? Yes. Because it's clear there that this is for transportation planning, and it wasn't clear, at least to me, on number 9 that it was for transportation planning. Okay. That's why I was – I agree with that. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose? So I'm a little confused here because – Could you kind of break that down again? Cause that just did not make sense to me at all. So director Saunders, could you also touch on nine and 11? So then that touches on Alderman beaches question again. Yes. So starting with number 11, when the new census was calculated, our annual payment to R1 as our MPO, our Metropolitan Planning Organization, for transportation planning went up to $91,308.49. It is our understanding that that will be our annual allotment, and that is programmed within our CIP for the next 10 years based on the new census data that came back. And that increase was reflected across all the members of the MPO. What was our previous payment? I believe it was right around 73 or 74. I can find it in my email if need be. Our annual payment went up about $15,000. Did other ones go up as well? Yes, all members of that MPO saw an increase, and each member got their proportionate amount of the increase. So I think our annual payments to R1 make up about 50% of the annual revenue that they generate. So they go ahead and take their annual revenue and then allocate that to each member of the MPO. So what's the reason for the increase, though? Because it seems like $15,000 from us. isn't a lot, but when you take into account the other ones that are having the same amount, why such a large increase in their budget? So those rates had not been increased for 10 years since the last census. So obviously a little bit of inflation. And it's my understanding they do this once every 10 years. Ours was the largest dollar amount increase. Some of the smaller communities that pay into that MPO obviously saw a much smaller percentage. Okay. And so the number 11 is the $91,000. But how does the number 9 play into that? Yeah. So number nine, and I'm going to do this on my calculator and try to multitask here just so I can make sense of this. Carry the four. Okay, so in this this actually works out perfect. So our our historic annual payment to our one was right around $78,000 a year that was our annual payment right so much like we are with number nine we passed in a MFT resolution that allows us to use motor fuel tax to cover that cost and In our fiscal year 23 resolution, we did not, we weren't aware yet what that adjustment was gonna be, so it reflected four quarterly payments at the $78,000. Okay. Once we were provided notice that that was going up, rather than adjusting at that point, we made our two payments, held off on the remaining two, and are making this adjustment to reflect six total payments. So the reason that it's more is because there's six payments on number nine, whereas on number 11, there's only four payments. It's super complicated to explain. I can show it on my breakout that I had, but that additional $15,000 that we're seeing was just added for four additional payments under the fiscal year 23. So to simplify it, is the $53,000 additional funds to the $91,000, or is it a part of that? Number is a part of that annual amount Okay, so the 53 is in addition to the old 78 to bring it to that 120 total out of six payments. That makes sense Okay, thank you Alderman can Jonas then alderman Bonnie. Okay. Yeah, I'd like to know do we have a completion date on number one? Oh Director Saunders. Thank you alderman Q known as we are hoping to break ground the next 30 days to get that done obviously demolitions phase one the the second phase under our plan would be to Reconstruct the parking lot that's immediately adjacent that supports district to police station as well. Thank you alderman Bonnie. Thank you mayor. I So I get to go back to number nine and ten so if there's an increase rate increase That's tied to the census. Does that mean it's tied to a population increase? And if so, why are we? Experiencing the increase if we had a population loss in the city of Rockford director Saunders. I So the increase, our proportion of what we pay the MPO is a function of the overall population of each of the communities that go into that MPO. So certainly the per capita number is a consideration, but also the costs that have gone up over the last 10 years are driving that. So I don't believe, and I don't have the census data right in front of me, I don't think there was a drastic, a significant decrease in our population. So the majority of that increase is tied to obviously the MPO seeing additional costs. So it's not an increase in the – it ends up being an increase in the amount, but it's not really an increase in the rate. It's an increase in the rate as applied to the costs. So not to give you a long – If it's tied to the census and our population is down, how do we end up with – Increases at all for the last decade so they probably had an increase of what they needed and they still use that same formula So yes our population dropped But it was a minimal drop and they had a much stronger increase that we all had to come up with all the municipalities Within the region so maybe per capita it dropped But overall I had to anchors would it kill us if we laid this over it would delay payment to the MPO It wouldn't I'd be more than happy to follow up after this. I guess let me answer this in a different way because it is a bit complicated, and I apologize that it has to be this complicated. This is a function of the MPO's costs going up. Okay, so every community that pays into that MPO is seeing an increase in their annual costs. Why the census comes into play is they, it is my understanding, and I was not here in this capacity 10 years ago, that when the new census comes out, that allows for or provides the MPO with the opportunity to come back and revisit that cost. I believe the funding formula is their total costs and then allocated to each of those partner communities Based on their population. That is why we bear the largest percentage of that cost So I'm sorry if I'm conflating the two The census was brought in because now is the time to revisit it This increase is 100% tied to an increase of cost that they're seeing to provide that service. Thank you Oh the wrong property Thank you. This is regarding item number 12, Project Safe Neighborhoods. Just looking at one of the purchases or one of the deliverables, it talks about the installation of cameras or selection of locations for the cameras. Well, will we be able to know those? So what I was been told is there are high use locations for large events and gatherings. So as we did our safety study, we found that there was areas that we needed to increase our use of technology during large events. And so I think you can look at, you know... There's parades, there's city market, there's Davis Park that will have large outdoor gatherings. There's a host of other large event spaces. But it says it will be all over the city, so I was just, will we know where they are? Yes, we can tell you where they are. Okay. And then, as it relates to the overall goals of the program, Okay. We have what's projected for 2023 and 2024. Do we have previous, what they accomplished in previous? I don't have to have that today. It's a question that came to mind. I know we've used Project Safe Neighborhood dollars for Camp Hope in the past. We've used them in our community for our focused deterrence reentry program where we take individuals on probation or parole. and team them up with Navigator and provide them resources for employment, reconnections of family and housing and things of that nature. I don't know of all the other things that we've used project safe neighborhood dollars for this is an allocation that we get out of the US Attorney's Office in Chicago, I believe and so We apply for the funding and they allocate it But we could certainly provide you a list of all the areas that we've utilized project safe neighborhood dollars for those are the three I can Remember off the top of my head. So is is a ARE THE OVERALL GOALS OF THE PROGRAM, THE ONES THAT ARE STATED HERE, ARE THOSE NEW GOALS OR IS THIS SOMETHING THAT WE'VE DONE IN THE PAST AND THERE'S DATA ON THESE GOALS FROM THE PAST OR THIS IS JUST GOING FORWARD? So I can't speak to what the years prior was if the board chose a different goal. I believe all of them have been basically an overall reduction in violent crime. And so, yes, we do have data on Camp Hope, and yes, we have data on the Focus to Turns program. As for other initiatives, I don't recall all those off the top of my head, but I'm guessing we have some form of data available. If it's direct or indirect data, I can't tell you that because I don't know what the programs were off the top of my head. So top 25 offenders list sounds like it's one program. Expand the presence of LPRS and intersection cameras is another program. Okay. Increased gun seizures is another one. Do we have that? So, yeah, so I mean, those I can almost do off the top of my head. I know that gun seizures, we just provided the data just a couple weeks ago. I believe it was a 9% reduction over the previous year, but last year was a historic year for gun seizures. So it was a highest amount of gun seizures we've had, around 350 to 380, if my memory's correct. Highest number that we've had in like the last six or seven years the increasing the LPRs. I believe that traffic intersections That's a license plate readers that we have a High traffic intersections. I forget there was one more I thought oh What do you say I just read some of them but top 25 offender lists THAT WAS JUST THE FIRST ONE I SAW, BUT I JUST WAS WONDERING, DID WE HAVE SOMETHING TO COMPARE THIS TO WHAT WE, THE GOAL AND THEN WHAT HAS HAPPENED IN THE PAST? AND YOU SAID THAT THERE MIGHT BE, BUT YOU ALSO SAID THAT THESE MIGHT NOT BE, HAVE BEEN THE THINGS WE FOCUSED ON PREVIOUSLY. YES. I CAN'T SPEAK ALL THE RUMMING TO ALL THE PROGRAMS THAT WE'VE HAD IN THE PAST. But I can assure you that we do have the data to back up any uses of Project Safe Neighborhood dollars that we've had. We could probably not just provide you that data. We could probably provide you the report backs that we have to provide to the group that we get the funding from. All right. Thank you. And Chief Reffitt will help make sure that we get that out to you this week. Great questions. Any other questions? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just want to follow through with what Alderman Prandtl was questioning you on. Out of the new cameras that are coming, you listed areas that's considered to be probably larger population, more of a potential incidence happening. But in areas of the city, on a daily basis, yearly basis, there are areas such as that. And I'm wondering, will there be cameras in those areas? I would say Alderwoman McNeely, they already are there. So we've quadrupled the number of cameras that we have in our community. We've purchased the gunshot detection software and then this council doubled the gunshot detection software. uh area that nearly doubled the the area that it covers and we have as a council from 2017 to today purchased more than 100 mobile and stationary license plate readers and those are deployed throughout our community okay and so the administration don't believe that there should be any more allocated throughout the city then That's not at all what I said. What I said is this grant specifically, we applied because we have had a number of major incidents for community gatherings across the country. And we wanted, we did an analysis of our safety plans for those large gatherings and we found that we had an area that we needed to improve. I can also tell you that we hope to purchase more than 100 additional mobile license plate readers. We want to make sure that all of our squad cars have those. So, no, that's absolutely not what I said. Do never think that I will say that we have enough technology to make our community safe. We will continue to invest in it until everyone's safe, regardless of what address that they're at. So, do we have... List not to be shared publicly, but we do have a list that of where the cameras are we have Probably a report on the license plate readers What how it has served us and the number of arrests or tickets or whatever? Yeah, yes. So we can't provide tickets off these license plate readers since there's only, I believe, eight communities in there or eight counties in the state that can do that. But yes, we have reports and analysis that I know Chief Reffitt as well as Chief Red would be more than happy to go over with individual aldermen, but we're certainly not going to share that out widely. Okay, so I'll call the chief. Thank you. That'd be great. Alderman to work. Thanks mayor and just for clarification on some of these cameras As you mentioned that some of them are geared towards Possibly large gatherings that might take place So just to clarify that some of these cameras are mobile and it's not just static meaning they're they're not just staying in one place and So they are able to be moved appropriately. I can't speak to the cameras in this grant Chief ref it is Maya out to say state my understanding and my understanding is that these are more static than they are dynamic I think they could move for certain events, but it would be more of a process to move them. Is that accurate? All right. Thanks any other additional questions clerk. Can you please call the roll turkey? Toonberg Terina fronty Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona weeks McNeely bond 11 ice. Thank you next hour We'll move to new business and we'll go to playing development committee and all their one weeks Thank you your honor under new business under planning and development committee item number one is an ordinance approving the Yeah, I'm on the right page approving the 2023 2025 funding agreement between the city of Rockford and keep northern, Illinois Thank you, so we have one item before you Is there any discussion on that one item no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? timber Tarina Prunty Hoffman Rose Beach Thank you stepped out. Sorry alderman. Canoes the min mix. Oh McNeely Bonnie ten eyes Excellent next we'll move to code and regulation committee and alderwoman trainer. Thank you mayor item number one an ordinance approving a special use permit for an auto repair facility in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 601 West Jefferson Street item 2 in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink class l50 in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming terminals in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 315 South Main Street and item number 3 in ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink class W50 in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming terminals in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 3605 Auburn Street Thank you. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items clerk? Will you please call the roll? tumor Tarina fronty Hoffman Rose Quinones links McNeely is that no one be one yes on two and three you want to change your vote on the committee report One second, so yeah, I'm gathering my thought here. I I So my understanding of your request is that you would like the legal director to provide an answer of what else is there that you can do to go back to the committee report? Okay. Director Meyer? You want to refer it all the way back to the committee for further consideration, or you would make a motion to refer the matter to back? It's already been voted. We're in the middle of the vote right now. The matter is still pending. You can still make a motion to refer it back.
 Okay.
 That would be the answer you to make a motion to refer it back to the committee I would like to send it back. I would like to refer this back to the committee That emotion to refer item b1. Yes, and we have a motion on the floor right now to refer item b1 back to Committee is there a second item fails for a lack of a second. Thank you. No problem. I Would you like your vote to reflect a no? Still a no. Thank you. On just item one. On item one and I on two and three. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. One and two and no on three. Item number one, ten ayes, one no. Item two, eleven ayes. Item three, ten ayes, one no. Excellent. Next we're moving on to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Thunberg. We have two items. Number one, an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for the Alpine Road resurfacing project from south of Harrison Avenue to Charles Street for an estimated cost of $6,491. The total cost of the project is estimated at $1,735,000. Item two. Approval to submit to the office of head start for budget revisions to the head start early start head start 2223 budgets purchase playground expansion at the early head start parent and child education Center previously approved by council and the purchase of five vehicles one for head start three for early head start and one shared van maintenance van the budget revisions to purchase playground expansion and the purchase five vehicles are a Early head start 22-23 budget reallocation $285,400 to equipment from, $125,000 from personal to equipment to cover the playground, $85,000 from fringe benefits for the purchase of three vehicles, $65,000 from other for the purchase of three vehicles, $10,400 from tractual for shared cost of maintenance van, Head Start 2223 budget reallocating $79,600 to equipment from $79,600 from personal to equipment for the purchase of one vehicle and the shared cost of maintenance van. Suspend Rule 9, please. Okay. Thank you. So we have two items before you with requests to suspend Rule 9. Is there a motion? Yeah. You can make a motion. We got a motion and do we have a second we got a motion we have a second to suspend rule number nine So we'll just take that first. So all those in favor of suspending rule number nine for item two, please say aye those opposed item Moves forward so we have two items now Before you item number two has rule number nine suspended. Is there any discussion on those two items? Okay Alderman McNeely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor on the first category the 85,000 from French benefits for the purchase of three vehicles That 85,000 the French benefits. What are the French benefits where that? 85,000 is coming from judge a program Alderman McNeely. These are the typical French benefits that are offered to all the employees in the city, so I insurance and life insurance it's the same insurance that everyone else has but these funds are coming from positions that have been open over the course of the grant year and so we are reallocating them to make other purchases that we've had to hold off on for several years based on what we had to work it work with Within our grant funds so because we've had so many open positions over the course of this grant year. We have to Get approval from our governing body Which is you all in order to make these budget revisions so that we can utilize those funds in other ways prior to the end of the grant year And the personnel, the staff, is in agreement to allow their benefits to be reduced? These are not coming from any personnel that are currently working. All of these costs had previously been allocated to roles that have remained empty over the course of the grant year. So nobody is working in them. But in order for us to reallocate those funds into something else that we could use, prior to the end of our grant year, we have to submit this revision to the Office of Head Start pending approval of City Council. And we just lost these employees this year? These are positions that have been opened over the course of this grant year. So most specifically, I know there were significant openings over the last five months, but we've been understaffed for a few, actually since I came on board. So right before COVID and since then. Okay, thank you very much. Mm-hmm any other discussion on the two items before us no discussion all those and or clerk Could you please call the roll all the main turkey timber? Tarina fronty Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 11 eyes excellent. We'll go to legislative and lobbying committee and alderman Bonnie I Thank you, Mayor. Legislative and Lobbying Committee has one item, which is an ordinance approving the renewal of a professional services contract with Zephyr Government Strategies for the amount of $10,000 per month for 2023 lobbying services. Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Dirky. Aye. Toomer. Tarina. Frente. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Veach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney. Bonney. Ten ayes, one no. Thank you. Now for what everyone is waiting for. Alderman Tunberg. And yet thank you again, Mayor. Alderman Rose has requested to spend more quality time with me tonight, so I would like to make a motion to convene in a closed session in order to discuss pending and or threatened litigation matters. We have a motion. Motion. Is there a second? So we have a motion. Is there a second? We got a motion. Is there a second? All right. We got a motion. We got a second. All those in favor, say aye. All those opposed, okay. We'll recess into closed session and be right back. Okay, we are back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. To Burke. Okay. Tarina. Prenti. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Quinones. Duffy. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. 11 present. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Have a good night.