with an invocation from Reverend Matthew Johnson of the Unitarian Universalist Church. Spirit of God of many names, spirit of life and love, we hear all the time about the need to listen to each other, to be civil with each other in this world that we share, where listening and civility seem in such short supply. And we know that is true.
 and we know that you call us to more than that to more than that you call us all to a depth of the heart to see one another's soul and to be empathetic to one another's pain which is our own for we are one humanity one family each and every the child of god and the holy no exceptions
 So call us toward that deep empathy, to be bold in our love and extravagant in our welcome, caring in our heart and open in our mind, this day and every day. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Hervey. Irvins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Beach. Here.
 Quinones. Chiarelli. Nine present. Excellent. We have a quorum barely, which is good. Next up, I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 16, 2018. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next, I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on January 29, 2018. So moved. Second.
 With the motion and a second, is any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, I will call on Alderman Hervey for a public hearing for the 2018 Municipal Budget and Appropriation Ordinance. Thank you, Your Honor. I hereby call the public hearing on the proposed 2018 Municipal Budget and Appropriation Ordinance to order.
 Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5-8-2-9-2006, a public hearing must be conducted by the City Council prior to the adoption of an appropriation ordinance. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on January 25, 2018.
 That notice informed the citizens of Rockford that a copy of the proposed budget and appropriation ordinance could be reviewed in the Finance Department, 3rd floor, City Hall building, 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. The proposed budget was also available online on the city's website.
 At this time, are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed appropriation ordinance? If so, please kindly step up to one of the microphones on either side. Give us your name, address, and make your statement. I don't see any. And hearing none, the public hearing is hereby adjourned. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. We have no proclamations this evening, so we'll move to petitions and communications. And Alderman Durkee for planning and development.
 Thank you, Your Honor. There are two items under Roman numeral 3A. Number one is a memorandum from Laficaria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of residents located at 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse. This will be referred to Planning and Development. Number two is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic Engineer, regarding changes to the National Highway System designation. This will also be referred to Planning and Development.
 Thank You alderman Durkee and alderman Shirely for codes and regulations. Thank you your honor. I have five Items to read in this evening. The first is a memorandum from LaFleur Kyria Vaughan assistant city attorney regarding 1300 Rock Street Barbara Coleman remediation site groundwater use ordinance the second is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla the zoning and land use administer and
 Administrator regarding tentative plat of Peary School subdivision. The third is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney regarding a report on liquor license establishments with video gaming from July through September 2017. The fourth is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, the Deputy Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events which include St. Patrick's Day Parade, Meltfest,
 Edgebrook Farmers Market, North End Market, Rockford City Market, Rockford Fire 911 Fun Run, Edgebrook Arts and Craft Exhibit, Rockford Vintage Market, Rockford Bike Night, and Edgebrook Cider and Cinnamon Arts and Crafts Fair. I believe all of those are in Alderman Toomber's work.
 The fifth is traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on February 14, 2018. And the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulations meeting on February 26, 2018. All five of those communications will be referred, Your Honor, to the Codes and Rights Committee.
 Thank You alderman Shirely and alderman Herbie for finance and personnel. Thank Your Honor four items tonight The first is a bid opening for the sale of property located at 1246 Corbin Street So I will now open there are two bids for this lot The first bid is for EMM, I think that's emin sender all
 and the bid amount is $1,300, $1,300, and there is a check enclosed in the amount of $1,510. The second bid, again this is for 1246 Corbin, is for Riveriano Soria at 1250 Corbin for a bid of $550, and enclosed is a money order in the amount of 10% at $55.
 The second, I will open bids for the sale of 1329th Street. And there are two bids for that parcel also. The first is a bid from Aaron Meters, bid amount of $750. Enclosed therewith, a check 10% in the amount of $75. The second, again, for 1329th Street.
 is by Donald F. Johnson and Diane S. Johnson. Cashier's check in the amount of $525, which also is the bid amount, the entire $525 being tendered. The third is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, City Attorney regarding approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Public School District, number 205 for City Police Services.
 That is going to be referred obviously to this committee. The other is, I don't know if this is the same one, the Intergovernmental Agreement.
 Also, I'm going to read this one instead between City of Rockford and Rockford Public School District number 205 for City Police Services For the meeting of September 12th I'm sorry, February 12 and it's an extension of the IGA that expired December 31st 2017 to provide school security during the day and for after-school events. Thank you. I
 thank you and uh attorney uh partridge i believe you have a payment from nikor yes your honor we've received uh franchise franchise fee payment from nikkor gas in the amount of ninety four thousand eight hundred and twenty two dollars and thirty eight cents excellent always like when money's coming in uh
 Next up we have our public speakers. I'll remind all public speakers that they have three minutes allotted to them Our first public speaker is Shirley Brewer from Rockford. I'm sorry. Yes, Alderman Beach I'm sorry, there's
 breakdown attached there's that's an annual payment it's calculated because we have the option of choosing either free service or a franchise payment with my core some time ago we chose the payment as opposed to the free service so the there's a complicated calculation as to that amount but it the the payment that we received was in line with what we budgeted
 There's actually a letter enclosed with the payment, Alderman Beach, if you'd like to take a look at it. It explains the calculation.
 I was curious if that represented half a percent, one percent, something. $94,000 represents something of another number. I was just interested in what we were really earning from them. But that could be done offline. We can make sure that all aldermen get the payment scheduled. Thank you, sir. Alderman Quinones. I just have a question here on that. When we open the bids, what is the next procedure that that goes to?
 And mr. Partridge, would you like to answer that one upon opening the bids for the properties? What is next step in the procedure? The next step would be the to the City Council toward the bid The item be referred to financing personnel for award of the bid Thank you next up public speakers all have three minutes our first speaker is Shirley Brewer from Rockford Shirley here we can come back to miss Brewer. I
 Next speaker is Prophet Youssef from Rockford. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 119th chapter, the 105th verse, it says, Thy word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my pathway. What I want to speak about tonight, the 12 acronyms for black history. One, B stands for beautifully made in God image. Two, B stands for beautifully made in God image.
 Bold, black, and forgiving. L stands for loving, kind, and divine. We are one of a kind. H stands for amazing and mighty through Jesus Christ. Being black is very nice. C stands for caring, sharing, and giving makes life worth living. K stands for keep on keeping on, and you will get where you are going. H stands for helping others, your sisters and brothers. Let not your heart be troubled. I stands for I am who I am. We are who we are by the grace of God. We have come this far.
 S stands for so wonderful to be who we are. No shucking, no jiving, and no conniving. T stands for totally awesome. We are the sky, which are our limit. O stands for order in the universe is what they say. You cannot wish black people away. R stands for reaping what we sow is a plus.
 Our 40 acres and a mule, and don't forget, our $100 is still waiting for us. Why stands for yes we can? Just remember, color doesn't make a woman or a man. I want to say something real quick. There's lots of people who's letting their water run to keep their pipes from freezing up. If the city of Rockford, if you don't mind, would you please give these people a discount on their water bill? Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is John Tack Brantley from Rockford.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the winners, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28, verses 25 say, Fear people can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form. It can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear people who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust him.
 his word once again this will be a fifth year going to the bm or harrison bank center to see disney on ice last year we started out raising funds for forty youth we ended up taking sixty five this year on the twenty fourth of february the same day as my birthday
 Starting next week, the Renewal Turning Point program, which is this week, we started asking our sponsors and community for donations so that we can take our fairgrounds and community youth and adults to see Disney on ice. Thank you for your contribution. Now to fear. Why black women struggle more with domestic violence? These events have forced the country to face difficult truth about prevailing domestic and intimate partner violence in America.
 According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, an estimated 1.3 million American women experience domestic violence each year. Women make up 85% of the victims. Despite this, most cases are never reported to the police. Most women are victims by people they know. And the black women...
 It's even a bigger problem. Black women are more than three times as likely to experience death as a result of domestic violence than white women. And while black women only make up 8% of the population, 22% of homicides that result from domestic violence happen to black women.
 and 29% of all victims women make it one of the leading cause of death for black women ages 15 to 35. Statistically, we experience sexual assault at a disproportionate rate and have the highest rate of interradical violence against individuals.
 against black women than any other group. We also see less likely reports to see how help when we are victimized. So let's look at Rockford in the past 10 years. How many black women and children have been killed because of domestic violence? Where's the statistics on that? We would like to know. The mayor set up a committee to address issues. However,
 I'm out there every week and there's not one week that goes by that I'm engaged with a family in the community that's dealing with domestic violence at home, in the streets, in the court, and in the school system. Just yesterday, dealing with domestic violence. Just this past Thursday, uh, uh,
 young man that was shot on Cosby Street, stemmed from domestic violence that stemmed on the west side of Rockford. I can go on and on and talk about the number of cases, but there's not one week that I'm engaging when somebody is calling me. A lot of times, they'll call me before they call the police about domestic violence. Thank you, Mr. Brantman. Our next public speaker is Dan McCurdy from Lips Park.
 Thank you for letting me speak tonight. You've got me at a disadvantage. I didn't want to miss the meeting, but I left my glasses at home, so I'm not going to be able to read very well. I appreciate all you've let us speak. Oh, do you? Don't take the eyes. He's 20 seconds shy now. Thank you. Okay, I'm going to be talking about Home Rule. I guess it was back in 2008.
 The past administration wanted to do something with it and he couldn't get up enough support off the City Council we got a new mayor now and Apparently he has talked you into go ahead and and give your eight votes now I know that was more than eight votes, but it's headed. It's headed to a referendum my problem is
 I have another problem with it. 35 years ago, I took it away from his dad. I helped him. I helped take it away from his dad. There was some violations being done. So now we have Tom involved and Tom is trying to do his own thing, I guess. I don't know. Or maybe his dad's thing. But I keep going to these meetings. I haven't seen many of you.
 Council members there, I remember seeing my friend here. He was there. But I went to Oscars. Oscars was a good meeting because it was pro and con, and it turned out to be a good meeting. But since then, it's kind of went downhill. I went to the Pilgrim Baptist Church, and all it was was the mayor and three of his people that were pushing it. I don't see the cons in there.
 and I only had one, maybe a chance for one or two questions. People are coming to these meetings and they're in the dark and they want the truth. And I'm thinking that as they see what the mayor and these people are doing, they're not hearing all the truth. The cons are not getting the talk. They're not getting their points across. This is not a good thing for us.
 We need to, you need to take a real close look at this. I know I was hoping Ms. McNeely was here. I was going to thank her for standing her ground. But anyways, maybe next time. But I got some things here from Mayor McNamara, Tom. And he's saying that it's not about the money. Thank you, Mr. McCarty. Appreciate your time.
 Next up we have a new committee. Well first I'll see if I did shoo Shirley Brewer from Rockford coming Shirley Brewer. Oh
 Okay. Next up, we have new committee reports. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got several committee reports this evening. The first, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval of establishing a no-parking-anytime restriction on the north side of West 8th Street from Court Street to 90 feet west of Court Street, thus removing two parking spaces. Second.
 Second, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to repeal the no parking 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. restriction on both sides of Central Avenue from Loomis Street to Harding Street.
 The third, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to repeal the no parking 7 PM to 10 PM on both sides of Montague Street from Central Avenue to Rose Avenue. The fourth committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to repeal the no parking 7 PM to 10 PM on both sides of Montague Street from Central Avenue to Montague Road.
 The fifth committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval establishing that traffic on evergreen avenue be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of yon street. The sixth committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation that no action be taken on establishing. Angle parking on the west side of 15th street from 40 feet north to 20th avenue to 120 feet north of 20th avenue.
 The seventh, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of 20 town homes in accordance with the submitted site plan at 6783 and 6819 Fincham Drive and 886 White Chapel Lane. William Charles Real Estate is the applicant. The eighth, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals
 Approval of a special use permit for office space for an agency personnel and housing for mother house crisis nursery on the first floor at 424 7th Street. Children's home and aid is the applicant subject to conditions. The ninth, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store at 3001 West State Street.
 Steve's Market is the applicant subject to conditions. I have a page here.
 The tenth item is a committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval For the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and gaming facility at 430 and 432 West Harrison Avenue smokehouse authentic barbecue limited is the applicant subject to conditions the 11th the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a tavern and video gaming and approval of
 for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming at 160 15th avenue it's benjamin and raquel rodarte doing business as el navegante bar as the applicants your honor is subject to conditions the 12th the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station
 convenience store and car wash and the approval of the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and car wash and
 At 515 East Jefferson Street, Kelly Williams and Company is the applicant and that's subject to conditions also. The 13th, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of liquor by the drink. In conjunction with the hotel, restaurant, and outdoor seating area. And approval of the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the hotel and restaurant at 7676 East State Street.
 That is the Courtyard, Rockford is the applicant, Your Honor, subject to conditions. The fourteenth item is the Committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and gaming facility at 1625 and 1635 Sandy Hollow Road, Calirena, Quinby is the applicant and is subject to conditions, Your Honor. All fourteen of those items are placed up for passage.
 Thank you. Is there a discussion on any of the 14 items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Tunberg. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. Chiarelli.
 items one two three four five six seven eight nine eyes items nine Seven eight eyes one no twelve thirteen nine eyes item number fourteen eight eyes one No, thank you all items pass. Thank you alderman. Charlie next up alderman Herbie for finance and personnel. Yes. Thank you your honor you have seven items tonight the first is a
 recommending the approval of vouchers in the amount of $7,271,542.39. Second is recommending approval of the amendments to the City of Rockford's policy prohibiting discrimination, harassment, and sexual harassment. The third is a committee recommending approval of the 2018 budget discussion. This is for package number three.
 Number four is recommending the approval of a self-limiting ordinance if the home rule referendum is approved to reflect that property taxes shall not exceed the non-home rule limit established under the Property Tax Extension Limitation Law, or PTAL, currently in place for non-home rule municipalities.
 The fifth is recommending approval of a self-limiting ordinance if the home rule referendum is approved to reflect that any home rule sales tax or any property tax increase shall require a supermajority vote by city council.
 The sixth is recommending approval of a self-limiting ordinance if the home rule referendum is approved to reflect that public notice, public hearing, and automatic layover would be required prior to adopting an ordinance that creates a new sales tax or increases an existing sales tax not authorized under the municipal code for non-home rule units.
 The seventh is recommending approval of a self-limiting ordinance if the home rule referendum is approved to reflect that the city shall not exceed the debt limitation equal to 20% less of what is allowed by non-home rule communities. And that is consistent with our current policy. And I would place those seven items up for passage. Thank you. With those seven items, is there any discussion? Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm a little confused, but I know on one of these it talked about a layover of seven days, and I would like to make a motion that we change that to 15 days. Yes. To give more time for discussion and thought with our constituents. Yep. So you would need to make a motion on item six to amend seven days to whatever amount of days you would like. Okay.
 I would like to make a motion then to amend number six from seven days to 15 days. Second. All those in favor of the amendment before us, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Thank you.
 Alderman Hoffman. I have another question. Number three, when it says recommend the approval, does that mean approving everything that's in there? Yep. As it stands? Alderman Hervey, do you want to add? Just want to clarify. It means approving it for approval.
 Think there was only one item that was going forward. I would ask director Eklund to clarify I believe the other items would direct staff to move forward collecting data Putting together an ordinance for us to adopt, but I think there was one thing that would move forward in short I'll let director Eklund mention their comment But alderman Hoffman all of these will have to come up before you at least one more time. Oh, okay individually so I
 Not all, I'm sorry. Let me turn it over to the professional. There are three items on the list that would be implemented immediately. The first is the use of tourism fund revenues to cover special events. That would be implemented immediately. The second is the use of tourism fund revenues to cover special events.
 The second is restricting plowing operations at the discretion of the public works director The third is pothole patching from CAP funds those modifications would be incorporated immediately into the Budget and and the appropriate the excuse me the appropriation ordinance it'll eventually be approved by council the remaining items including animal services and
 you're directing staff to do that this is an item that you want staff to continue to work on we will put the effort into either developing an intergovernmental agreement or creating ordinance modifications that would then come back to the committee for to uh council for approval
 I do I have a question I'm opposed to the snow removal part ordinance so when would I get to vote on that if I vote yes to accept this tonight then am i accepting that because I'm opposed to the snow removal ordinance director sacrament
 it relates to the Option to use city resources to plow through streets for in the residential areas again This is when we have the limited opportunities when we can do so we will and I'll use tonight as an example It's not likely we're going to be able to wait until 7 o'clock in the morning to begin plowing snow So you will very likely see the contractor engaged somewhere between 8 and 10 o'clock tonight. I
 If we have the opportunity in the morning, which I believe we will, we certainly will put city trucks in residentials once the arterial streets are cleared to assist the contractor in their snow removal efforts. And that does save us money as well. Alderman Hoffman. My concern is I think you're doing a really good job right now. Everything just seems to be in order. Thank you.
 It seems to work. You've given me the maps. When my people call, I know exactly how things are going to go. I'm concerned that it won't be that smooth if we put this other ordinance in. The level of service is not going to change. Again, it comes down to making streets passable for our citizens as well as our first responders to be able to get down.
 You know when these opportunities come along to use city resources whether it be in total or in partial Participation and residential plowing it will save us money alderman hervey and I guess mine kind of piggybacks off alderman Hoffmans if there's one item in here that I can't Agree mine is moving Pothole patching to the CIP. I don't want to vote no on the whole thing because I support 99% of it and
 Do what I just say no to item 10 in the January 22nd memo Yes, you could okay. You could point out which item you'd like to vote no on. Okay Are we are we using the January 22nd memo? Is that still the okay? Thank you I'd ask that you provide a little bit of patience and time as we go through the the vote on all these so our clerk Can record the vote accurately?
 Alderman Hoffman and there was another one that concerned me and that had to do with animal services now Do I understand that's all being so animal services. We will be looking at Well, we'll be looking at over what best practices are but then also you're providing Staff the ability to work with the county to negotiate a deal that is mutually beneficial Thank you alderman Beach Thank you your honor
 i really think we have to talk a little bit more about this snow um plowing so that we get a good understanding because i've got several notes from people that are not quite understanding i think if i'm going to say it as i understand it uh to to mr stockman the level of service is not going to change from what we haven't have come accustomed to but what i'm understanding i think i'm understanding is if let's say we just had one inch of snow
 This is all we had and the decision was do we call out contractors tonight to plow that one inch or we could wait till tomorrow and bring the city crews in. That's what I'm understanding as opposed to as what the director just said right now. There's no way we can do that. We have to dispatch that this evening because of the amount of snow there is.
 am i understanding that correctly director stockman thank you your honor in a sense yes we would never even initiate a city generated plowing operation for one inch of snow generally speaking we would just come through and plow or excuse me salt the streets rather than engage in a full plowing operation generally we don't engage in any type of residential plowing operation until the accumulation level hits two inches or more and again
 As written it's discretionary that if we have the opportunity That does not cause any undue hardship for our citizens in terms of timeliness and level of service we will incorporate the use of city resources into plowing residential streets and
 Frankly it really doesn't change much of anything that we've done in the past at times when we've had the opportunity to Where we finished the arterial streets much earlier than the residential routes were completed and we were able to redirect our own resources into Residential areas that the contractor had not completed and allow the city to plow those areas and thus save the 87 or 88 dollars an hour that we're currently paying our contractors for for plowing services
 Thank you. MR. I think overall, each time we send out the crews, it's about $150,000, $175,000. So to quote – I can't believe I'll do this – President Trump, there'll be extreme vetting when it comes to when we send out those plows, but I think public safety is of utmost importance to Director Stockman and Superintendent Mitch Leatherby. MR.
 Alderman Toomberg liked that quote. Yes, Alderman Hoffman. I'm just going to say I'm very concerned over it because I remember in my neighborhood going days without getting plowed before we had the private contractors. Now I'm going a ways.
 And I'm just very concerned that when we say, well, we're going to take a look at it and all of this, that we're going to get back to that. And I specifically remember an event where we went three days without being plowed because the arterials always came first and we would be on the list, but then.
 By the time it was our turn, the arterials needed to be plowed again. And I am just so very concerned that we are going to get there again. And in my neighborhood, on my street, I experienced three weeks when we did not have garbage pickup because the trucks couldn't get up the street because they weren't getting plowed until the cars drove over them, turned them into a sheet of ice, and so cars and trucks couldn't get up the hill.
 So you're going to have to do a lot to convince me we will never get there again. That was awful. We won't be going in that direction. Okay.
 It just won't happen. I mean I was alderman third ward and there's two areas in particular in the third ward that I mean I kind of think of that as the barometer and you have a number of areas That are very similar to the two areas that alderman to work as we want to make sure that public safety is first citizen safety is Paramount and that people are have the ability to get to and from their home and to and from their place of work. Um
 This is just simply providing our public works director, who's been doing this for about 28, 29 years, some discretion to, when it's on the edge, make that call. Instead of using a flat line number saying every single time we have two inches. If he can see that over the evening temperatures are going to heat up and that the snow will melt, maybe that would be the time that he pulls back a little bit.
 And I don't even know if that is it's just we're providing someone who has a tremendous amount of experience the opportunity to pick and choose Instead of just using this flat line I just have to say Unfortunately, you reached a level of excellence in our neighborhood and we're gonna hold you to that You've done a great job so that's my only concern and I do thank you for that like I've explained to you before with those maps that you've given to me
 I can explain them to my constituents very easily and give them an idea of when they're coming through. So you've been doing a great job. Now you just have to keep it up. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Yeah, Mr. Stockman, the Fifth Ward has some of the most narrow old streets, just like the Third, just like yours. Mr. Stockman lives in the Fifth Ward. We all know where he lives. And...
 He knows, you know, trust me, I would not have agreed to this if I didn't believe that Director Stockman would use that discretion wisely. But I do want to clarify for the public, we are still going to be engaging private contractors. We're not saying we're eliminating private contractors because that's what one person heard. No, they will still be there, but we will have more discretion.
 to use our internal, we call them the big boys, those are the water trucks that have the plows attached, that come through and quite frankly, they do a better job. They can get much lower to the pavement than the smaller contractor trucks. So I am gonna support it. I understand your trepidation, but I'll give you his address, so. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee.
 Logum in Herbie That's on number three correct three time yep Irvins Hoffman Beach Quinones Shirely I'm one two all of them pass you want me to know or if you'd like to one two four five seven nine eyes item number three five eyes four nose on 310 thank you and
 Next up under officers reports, mr. Stockman. Would you like to give us just a an update on the snow operations that we have this evening? Thank You mayor As you know from the press release about earlier this afternoon. We're currently working on arterial streets with our city resources We anticipate Approximately two to four inches there are forecasts out there that are a little higher than that I'm going with the
 services that have provided me provided us information in the past that That have been very accurate as a rule At some point in time tonight I fully expect that we will have to bring in our contractor to begin plowing residential streets and Timing on this one is very good It's always nice when you can plow during the overnight hours instead of during the daytime when people are out and moving around and
 uh... by mcsnohan taper off according to the experts by somewhere between eight and ten o'clock tonight which should make uh... travel on your curious trees tomorrow very easy issue as you
 Make your way to and from work school or shopping so all in all it looks like this is going to Be an overnight event with arterial streets open and residential streets ongoing I expect the plowing for the residential streets to take until approximately 10 10 o'clock tomorrow morning to complete We do have some other events coming this week There's an inch or two forecast for Tuesday night into Wednesday and then another inch or so later on in the week So it's going to be very active
 Snow and ice control week for us. Thank you. Is there other officers reports alderman toonberg? Thank you mayor I'd like to one thank the city departments for I've noticed on the vouchers
 that we approve on a monthly basis. Our expenditures to Marco Technologies has come down dramatically by the thousands of dollars. I do want to thank all the departments for making an effort at something that is so simple, but will save our taxpayers over the course of a year 30, 40, maybe $50,000. So thank you for
 All the efforts of all the departments on a on a much heavier note There was a horrible accident today on North second if anybody Witnessed the the vehicle it was just a horrendous Circumstance there So I do want to extend heartfelt sympathies to the family of of the victim there there was a
 It did, it was a death there and so it happened in my ward and I saw it shortly after it happened. So it is with a heavy heart that, you know, I do say this and we don't know who the information isn't out there yet and it's an ongoing investigation. So, but I would like to extend our condolences on behalf of the council to the family. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Alderman Beach. Thanks again, Your Honor. I'd like to really compliment Mark Stockman and his staff with the professional job dealing with the neighborhood association Regents Park over the last six weeks One of the gentlemen that was at our last meeting said that he really wanted to thank us as a city for the compromise and
 and the information and the good meetings that we had there that came to an agreement that all could live with and i just wanted to thank mark for your leadership there
 and Tim and the other gentlemen I think Jeremy was there at all the meetings along with the OSF staff and officials so I wanted to say from them to you from myself Mark thank you very much to pass that to compliment on through this whole body here thank you thank you Alderman Beach further officers report
 One note I'll mention that I failed to mention earlier, and I apologize, is Richard Nordloff passed away and he was a 2007 Excalibur Award winner and then was on a whole host of boards and committees throughout our city. And in 2012 donated, purchased and then donated the New American Theater to the Rockford Public Library.
 It's a big loss for his family as well as for our entire community. So thoughts and prayers are with him and his entire family. Alderman Hervey. Hearing that, it reminded me, a lot of people may not have known Joel Cowan, who was with the, I knew him with the University of Illinois College of Medicine at Rockford, but he had served in a number of capacities providing services.
 To me, Joel, whenever I needed to know statistics or data or history, that's who I called. But he did so much to improve the information that we have regarding our general health in this community and did a fantastic job.
 He just knew a little bit of everything. But when it came to that health data, he got us involved in some major national studies regarding community health. I guess that's a nice tag for it. But he did pass away last week, and I wanted to give condolences to his family and just let them know he will very much be missed. Thank you. Thanks for mentioning that.
 Okay, moving on for motions and resolutions. It does not look like we have planning and development or codes and regulations So alderman Harvey back to you. Thank you your honor The first item is an award of bid. This is for elevator maintenance to Alpha Schumacher elevator company of Denver Iowa for an estimated value of $50,000 contract duration is one year with two one year extensions and
 Funding sources property fund second is an award bid for PCC patching for 2018 to TCI concrete of Rockford for an estimated annual budget of two hundred thousand funding sources water operating budget item three is a resolution approving payment to Winnebago County Animal Services rendered in 2017 in the amount of five hundred and sixteen thousand four hundred dollars the funding sources the general fund and
 Item 4 is award of an RFP. This is for banking services to Associated Bank of Green Bay, Wisconsin for commercial banking, credit card, lockbox services for water and ambulance, automated pay-by-phone system for water bills, IVR, purchasing and AP cards, the city's line of credit, and equipment financing.
 The contract amount is $22,100 estimated annual net gain after earnings offset for fees paid. The contract duration is three years with two possible two-year extensions, funding sources, finance department operating budget, and the water fund.
 Item 5 is an award of joint purchasing contract for three ladder trucks to global emergency products of Aurora Illinois for a total of three million twenty five thousand eight hundred dollars the funding sources the capital lease funds for the Pot and the fire department Capital budget and I passed those five items up for passage. Thank you. We have five items before us this evening Is there discussion?
 alderman beach thank you sir how long does it take to get the ladder trucks here chief bergson uh once a if it's approved tonight it'll be 11 months from build time till they're delivered all three all three correct that's when the payment is due we pay at certain phases in construction i think after the chassis is received and then a final payment and those all um those would come out of lease funds we wouldn't execute the lease until we need the funds in place may i ask a question of course
 Is it possible, as we look down the road, knowing we're going to need this kind of equipment, whatever it might be, to start escrowing funds up each year so that all of a sudden we don't get hit in one year with $3 million, that we can just pick up a quarter of a million this year, half a million, half a million until we have the money in hand?
 Certainly, I think that would be the best, obviously, that would be the best method for funding capital purchases. And this wouldn't be a $3 million cash outlay all in one year. This is, we would lease these vehicles and have that mechanism in place. Do we need to pass some kind of an ordinance to make that happen? Well, we would need to incorporate it into the budget and build in that excess, set aside funds, and designate it for that purpose. I think it's something we should look at, Your Honor.
 Certainly, and I think one of the things for the multi-year budget strategy that you've talked about, national resource network. Yeah, I think that could really help us with cash flow. Thank you so much. Yeah, thank you. Alderman Toonberg. Thank you, Mayor. Along those lines of Alderman Beach, what is the approximate time frame we'll be holding on to these vehicles, average? Yeah.
 But the useful life in our capital policy is seven years front line, and then they would move into reserve status for another three years. Thank you. Further discussion on the five items before us? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 Nine ayes. Items pass. Alderman Chiarelli for New Business Codes and Regulations Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman Numero 9B, 1 through 13, Your Honor, I previously read those in earlier under committee reports. I place all 13 of those ordinances up for passage. Thank you. So we have 13 items before us under New Business Codes and Regulations Committee. Is there any discussion on any of the 13 items? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? No.
 Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay
 9. 9. I'm sorry, 9C, items 1 through 5, previously read in. And I would place those items up for passage. Okay, so we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on the five items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Thunberg. Herbie. Irvins. Hoffman. Beach. Quinones. Shirelli. 9-9, Your Honor. 9-9, Your Honor.
 Thank you. And we may begin to tell Frost, Thompson, Kelly, Rose, Beck, and McNeely to stay home. This was awesome. Is there a motion to adjourn? Oh, we got one more. Just very quickly, Your Honor, where should people be parked if we're going to have an overnight plowing operation? Where should people be parked tonight, and where should they be parked as of 8 a.m. tomorrow morning?
 Mr Stockton, I'd side of the odd address side of the street tonight. Even address side of the street at 8 AM tomorrow morning. Okay, tonight the outside until 8 AM in the morning. 8 AM even side. Thank you. Without further ado. Is there a adjourn? Thank you. Is there a second? We have a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed. All right. Have a wonderful night.