Good evening. We will call to order the City of Brackford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, February 5th, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Tarina. Here. Prunty. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Beach. Barrios. Here. Bailey. Here. Bonney. Here. Nine present. Here. Excellent, so we have a quorum for this evening This evening we also are fortunate to have Judy Moe of the Baha'i Center For Rockford to provide us with an invocation Thank you. I just have a tiny show-and-tell because I was looking through some old clippings today and trying to Clean out my closets and stuff. But anyway, I I don't know if any of you remember this, but in 1991, the newspaper put out an entire section on racism in Rockford and how we were doing with that. And if anybody wants to borrow it, it's very informative cuz it really tells you where we were 30 years ago, and then think about where we are now. And so it inspired my words tonight. Dear God of all people and all religions, we want to thank you very much for all the work, for all the help you've given us to do the things that we've done over the past many years to try to help all people in Rockford have fair opportunities. and we also want to help i ask you to please help the city council and the mayor and all the leaders of every every kind of leader in rockford and the people um just to continue working to bring our city together in unity to bring the world together in unity that's basically my prayer but i also want to add these words from the baha'i writings that inspired my great-grandmother and all of my ancestors since then With these words know ye not why we created you all from the same dust That no one should exalt himself over the other ponder at all times in your hearts how ye were created and Since we have created you all from the same substance, it is incumbent on you to be even as one soul, to walk with the same feet, eat with the same mouth, and dwell in the same land, that from your inmost being, by your deeds and actions, the signs of oneness and the essence of detachment may be made manifest. Such is my counsel to you, O concourse of light. Heed ye this counsel, that ye may obtain the fruit of holiness from the tree of wondrous glory. Thank you. Amen. First, we also have Alderman Hoffman, Alderman Rose. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 16, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Thank you. We have no proclamations this evening, but we do have a public hearing. We have a public hearing on the proposed annexation of 4500 Spring Creek Road, and I'm going to turn that hearing over to Alderwoman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 511-15.1-3 for the agreement to annex for the following property, 4500 Spring Creek Road. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on January 18, 2024. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, February 5, 2024, at 530 in Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall, located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed annexation agreement for 4500 Spring Creek Road. Are there any questions or comments from the Council members on this annexation? are there any questions or comments from the public seeing that there are no questions or comments this hearing is now closed thank you thank you next we're going to move to petitions and communications and we will go to planning and development committee and other woman wilkins thank you your honor um we have four items tonight and all four items have been referred to planning and development committee Item number one. We have a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins City Engineer regarding the approval of an application and award acceptance for the fiscal year 2023 through fiscal year 2026 bridge investment program for the 15th Avenue Bridge item number two We have a memorandum from Mitch Leatherby Street and Transportation superintendent regarding the approval of an application and acceptance of the urban and community forest grant and Item number three is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders public works director regarding an agreement between the city of Rockford and LT construction for the workforce development initiative In item number four, we have a memorandum from Martin bloom project manager for permits and special events regarding the 2024 Forward-for-fund initiative. Thank you. Next we're going to go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Trina. I thank you your honor i have three items item number one is a memorandum from martin bloom project manager for permits and special events regarding upcoming special events for the st patrick's day parade and the livescape fourth of july classic referred to quota regulation committee number two the traffic commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on february 14 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on february 26 2024 referred to quota regulation committee and AND LASTLY, NUMBER THREE, A MEMORANDUM FROM SCOTT CAPAVILLA, PLANNING AND ZONING MANAGER, REGARDING THE FINAL PLOT OF ROCKFORD HARD ROCK SUBDIVISION REFERRED TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. NEXT WE'RE GOING TO GO TO FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE AND ALDERMAN LOGEMAN. Memorandum number one memorandum from Timothy Henkins City Engineer regarding approval of an internet intergovernmental agreement between City of Rockford and Four Rivers Sanitation Authority For the Whitman Street reconstruction project referred to Finance and Personnel Committee number two memorandum from Timothy Henkins City Engineer regarding the approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for a State Highway 2, South Main Street, Smart Overlay, Clifton Avenue to Pond Street, refer to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number three, memorandum from Timothy Henkin, City Engineer, regarding the approval of a letter of understanding between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for the Rockford Complete Streets revitalization land acquisition, refer to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number four, memorandum from Timothy Henkin, City Engineer, regarding the request to hire a senior engineering technician, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number five, memorandum from Owen Carter, Deputy Director of Program Operations Community Services regarding the acceptance of the integrated mobile partners action crisis team from Winnebago County Community Mental Health Board grant award, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Memorandum from John Pazzi, Police Business Manager regarding the acceptance of the 2023 Burn Justice Assistance Grant Program grant award, referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Next up, we have our public speakers. We have two public speakers this evening. Just want to remind the public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the city council. At the time that you hear the alarm, I ask that you close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 121st chapter of verse to the second verse, It says, I look to the hills which comes my help. My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. What I want to speak about tonight lies about African-Americans. They say there were no African-Americans to get the Congressional Medal of Honor in Vietnam. That's a lie. There were 21 African-Americans, and I'm going to name them tonight. The first one was James Anderson Jr., Marine Corps. The second was Webster Anderson Army. The third was Eugene Ashley Army. The fourth was Oscar P. Austin, Marine Corps. The fifth was Master Matthew Salina Army. The sixth was Donald Long Army. The seventh was Milton L. Adams III Army. The eighth was Rowley L. Pitts Army. The ninth was Charles Kevin Rogers Army. The 10th was Rupert L. Sargent Army. The 11th was William Bryant Army. The 12th was Rodney M. Davis, Marine Corps. The 13th was Robert Jenkins, Marine Corps. The 14th was Lawrence Joel, Army. The 15th was H. Johnson, Army. The 16th was Ralph H. Johnson, Marine Corps. The 17th was Garfield M. Langhorne, Army. The 18th was Clarence Sasson, Army. The 19th was Clifford Sims, Army. The 20th was John E. Warren, Jr., Army. The 21th was Martin Lawrence, Army. African Americans... You have no reason to have your head down because our people have fought and died for the United States of America. I also want to thank all veterans for their service to the United States of America. I was in the Navy 19 years, 11 months, 29 days, 1 hour, 10 minutes, 15 seconds. I did three tours in that hellhole in Vietnam. I wish you would have something. in the lobby for Black Americans' history. I wish to have some at Memorial Hall, Booker Washington, and Memorial Hall. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all you Persians, and most of all our citizens of Rockford, Illinois, and many of those who are watching TV. This is Black History Month. This is going to be the first time, because generally I go back to Lewis University, where I was the president of the Black Student Union, and I give a lecture there every year. But this year I'm going to Macedonia. I've been invited to Macedonia. Also, I've been invited to AS Community Fellowship Church to give a lecture. And he kind of tickled me when they asked me two questions. First question he asked me, how much do you want to get paid for speaking? I speak Black History Week 365 days after year. There's no price on black history. Whatever donation that the church decides to give me, that's going to be going towards the kids. I am a walked-in encyclopedia when it comes to history, and mainly when it comes to African-American history and the Bible. So I told him, whatever subject he gives me, I can talk about anything under the moon when it comes to African-American history. Right after we give this lecture, we're going to also have biscuits and gravy at Ash Community Church, which is on 2020 Kilburn Avenue. But on the next day, on President Day, we're going to see the play Color Purple. After we see the color purple, we're going to have a talk. I'm going to compare the original movie of Color Purple with the musical, and then we're going to address the issues that's happening today. Everything that happened in Color Purple, is still going on right now today, especially with education. There was once upon a time that we was not allowed to learn how to read and write. Matter of fact, it was a crime. We'd get hung, get your hands cut off, or get your tongues taken out. Right now in Rockford, they have done it in a subtle way. Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, and Florida came out openly, abandoned our history. Rockford does it in a subtle way that they don't talk about it, but they socially promote our kids through the school. We have 85 percent of the graduation rate, Rockford has 68 percent of the graduation rate. African-American youth, less than 10% that actually graduate out of high school. When we have this here, when I talk about color purple, we want to have a chief representative from the police department, the fire department, a representative from the mayor's office, We definitely want to have the argument there at this attention. We want to have somebody representative from the Peace and Justice Center being there attending this meeting and three other organizations that deal with drug abuse, mental abuse and physical abuse. THEY'RE GOING TO GET THREE MINUTES TO SAY WHAT THEIR TITLE IS. WE'RE GOING TO FLIP IT AND WE AIN'T GOING TO WAIT UNTIL THE END OF THE PROGRAM TO TALK. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THE AUDIENCE TO ASK THESE INDIVIDUALS TO COME THERE, THE QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT THEIR CONCERNS ARE IN OUR COMMUNITY. THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO SPEAK. THANK YOU. NEXT, WE'RE GOING TO MOVE TO NEW COMMITTEE REPORTS. AND WE HAVE NOTHING UNDER PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, SO WE'LL GO TO CODE AND REGULATION COMMITTEE AND ALDERWOMAN TORINO. THANK YOU, MAYOR. All right, item number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a mid-block pedestrian crossing at 330 Bremmer Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no-parking, any-time restriction on the east side of North Pierpont Avenue. Thank you. from 200 feet south of Auburn Street to 1100 feet south of Auburn Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation of no action on the following items request to establish always stop control at the intersection of Eastgate Parkway and Westgate Parkway thus repealing the existing traffic control of Westgate Parkway stopping for Eastgate Parkway a request to establish three-way controls back control At the intersection of 25th Street and being closed and request to establish always stop control at the offset T intersection of 25th Street, Pleasant View Avenue, thus repealing the existing yield control of Pleasant View Avenue yielding for 25th Street. Number four, the committee recommends approval for the request for an honorary street name designation on a portion of Court Street from Cedar Street to Chestnut Street to be renamed John Briggs Way in honor of John Briggs, the first African-American hotel owner in Rockford, Illinois. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 104 Atwood Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six. Number six the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 1945 Blackhawk Road the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number seven the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4500 Spring Creek Road the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number eight the committee recommends approval of the final plot of Rockford Charles subdivision and Number nine, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for the renewal of a special use permit 047-18 for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels and an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 57 XX Cunningham Road subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 10 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the hookah lounge and byob in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 2510 south alpine road subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 11 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor and the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and auto mechanic shop in a c2 limited commercial zoning district 31 35 North Rockton Avenue subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 12 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of liquor by the drink with a tavern live entertainment video gaming terminals and outdoor seating and Area in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 308 West State Street Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 13 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar and outdoor seating area with video gaming terminals and a c3 general commercial zoning district at 4846 East State Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 14 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with convenience store in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 311 and To 313 Mulberry Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and finally number 15 The committee makes no recommendation as to the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval by the drink in conjunction with the tavern with outdoor smoking area live entertainment Dancing video get gaming terminals and 100% stock purchase and a seat to limited commercial zoning district 16 on 1609 South Alpine Road and Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So council we have about 15 items before us Is there any discussion on those 15 items alderman Bonnie? Thank you mayor. I move we lay over Item number nine. We have a motion to lay over item number nine Alderman Logan man was that you with the second? All right, so item number nine has been laid over is there any other discussion now on the 14 items before us alderman Beach and Thank you, Your Honor. I would also like to ask that number 13 be laid over as well. We have a motion to lay over number 13. Is there a second? Second. Alderman Thunberg seconds that. Okay. We're running these items down. So now we have 13 items left. Is there other discussion? Alderman Thunberg? Thank you, Mayor. On item number 10, revisit the definition of BYOB. I guess not the definition of what it means, but as far as this establishment allowing the number of drinks, size of drinks. I remember this discussion. It was pretty interesting, wasn't it? It was something. So, yes, we definitely can. Director Myers. I'm sorry. Yeah, Alderman Toomber. I thought I remembered there was... Oh Two drinks, but I had some questions on size quantity. Yeah, right So I'm attempting to get in my files right now to pull up the ordinance. It has since been amended That's taking a bit. I don't recall if we actually end up adopting a drink limit Do you want a man to do that? And can do you mind if I take other questions and before we vote on it, I'll get you that answer Okay Other questions? Alderman Beach. Thank you again, Your Honor on that same Committee number 10 what I don't understand is Initially when there was discussion about the hookah launches there was not to be sales any tobacco products other than the products that go in the devices that make it a hookah lounge and Now, when I read this, it sounds to me like any kind of tobacco is going to be available for sale. That could be cigarettes, cigars, pipes. And if I'm wrong, then tell me I'm wrong. But if I'm right, that's not the way we understood what a hook-a-lounge would be offering initially when we voted on this a few years ago. So, yeah. I I'd just like some clarification on what tobacco products means of in this committee report thank you so uh director Myers you now have two questions in the queue for item 10 uh the hookah lounge I think some discussion uh and answers for alderman Thunberg uh regarding number of drinks the size of those drinks That can be allowed in the BYOB and then alderman beaches Follow-up question. Were you able to locate that information? No, I'm if we could pass me past that item I trying to get into my files and I cannot so I will get those answers I believe I believe the answer to the second question though is that I In order to have a hookah lounge license, you have to have a tobacco license, which is why it's worded the way it is. But I will verify that as well. And the reason I'm checking my files is to make sure, because we did amend the ordinance. I want to make sure we have the the current ordinance as opposed to something that may be online that has not been opened yet. Okay. Well, we can come back to the tobacco question and the BYOB question. Other discussion regarding the 13 items that we have? Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. Number 15, as I stated last time, my neighborhood can't win with either a yes or no vote. The whole issue is the kind of business it is and what's been going on in the parking lot because of the people that it attracts. The difference is that if you vote yes, there will be certain restrictions put on the new owner, such as cameras in the parking lot. He has to have security and some other issues. My neighborhood doesn't want either or. They don't want... Current owner they don't want the new owner. They don't want this kind of business. There's nothing I can do about that I've already talked to our attorney and I can't stop this kind of business So what I'm going to say because people are asking me how to vote. I'm going to say just vote your conscience. I The place we have right now is terrible. It has no restrictions. There's nothing we can do about it because there weren't any restrictions put on it when it was approved. If you vote yes for this new business, then there will be restrictions. It'll be the same kind of horrible business, but nevertheless, there will be some restrictions. So I have no guidance on this whatsoever. Everybody has to vote their conscience. So, thank you. Thank you other Moment arena With a motion to lay over item 15 alderman to bird was that you with the second So we have a motion that items laid over. All right, we're cruising through these items. I Now, if you're keeping square at home, we have 12 items in front of us, not 15. Alderman Bailey. Yeah, Mayor, I'd like to make a motion to move to lay over item number two. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to lay over item number two. All right, guys. Eleven more motions. We can do it. Is there any discussion on the 11 items before us outside of the two questions that we still have yet to answer? regarding the hookah lounge alderman Durkee Sorry, I got here late which items are laid. Oh well, it's understandable item number two item number nine item number 13 item number 15 to 9 to 9 13 and 15 are laid over 10, we are still waiting on some discussion and answers for it. But Director Meyer looks like he's feverishly working on his computer and will have those momentarily for us. Other questions on items in front of us? Okay. With that, Director Meyer? It may be best to hold that item out for now and then come back to it later on in the agenda. Thank you. Tried restarting my computer. I'm so difficult to connecting and I just hold that out with councils approval And bring it back if you have the answers correct Council does anyone object to that if I hold that out until we can get alderman to Mergen alderman Beach those answers no objections Okay, so we're trimming these down all right, so any other discussion, so we have items one three four five six seven eight and 11, 12, and 14 we will be voting on. Any last discussions? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Tarina. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Two and part three. That was part two and three. No. Yep. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Bailey. Bonney. Item number one, 12 ayes. Item number three. 11 eyes 1 no on items 2 & 3 items 4 5 6 7 8 12 eyes I am 11 12 eyes item 12 11 eyes 1 no and 14 11 eyes 1 no excellent thank you next we're gonna go to finance and personnel committee in alderman logan thank you mayor item number one committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of nine million nine hundred fifty seven thousand four hundred ninety five dollars and fifty six cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting held on january 22nd 2024. item number two the committee recommends approval of the release of liens to facilitate the sale of winnebago county trustee properties located at 7xx hartford avenue 325 north day avenue 302 north henrietta avenue 323 royal avenue 321 royal avenue 618 maple street 616 maple street bishop washington avenue As well as Horton Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number three, committee recommends approval of the revisions to the amended 2024 fee schedule. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Alderman. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Alderman Meeks. Bailey. Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Next up we have officers' reports. Any reports from counsel? Alderman Durkee and then Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate it. Just to have a quick question, there are people, obviously in my ward, who have some concerns about the clinic on Moray Drive. And I was sent a fire inspection by the city of Rockford saying that per city of Rockford plans examiner, it was determined that a letter stating that the clinic will not qualify as ambulatory care was accepted and approved by the city. Because of this, fire sprinklers and alarm systems were not required. This is found to be different in the future. These requirements will apply. I know that I'm obviously quite familiar with the procedures. That are being going to be done there and they most certainly are ambulatory care So I I would like at least somebody to take a second look at that I don't I don't know. I guess it would be our code folks in conjunction with fire. Okay, because based upon what I know of the procedures it is not people will be sedated and I'm during these and it is an ambulatory care center. Thank you, sir I think alderman Durkee I may have gotten the same email But could you forward that to me just so I can make sure that we oh, yeah, most certainly. Thank you, sir And then alderman Rose. Thank you. Yeah, just kind of a similar issue I saw the newspaper article on the sober living homes just wanted to Just make it known that I You know, I think that if we come down really hard on some of these sober living homes, that it could... Could cause some repercussions within our community, especially those who are trying to get the help needed for addiction services I do understand staff's role in making sure that those homes are safe and that they're following the Code requirements and so I was just curious if staff could just comment on what they would need to do to To operate within the ordinance of the city. Yes. Thank you director Myers Mayor, I'd prefer to speak to the Alderman offline on that. Just want to keep in mind we do have a pending federal lawsuit and a fair housing lawsuit, and so those are fair questions. I think we did discuss it a bit when it came through as a zoning item, but I can certainly talk to you more about the issues, and they're each specific to each individual house. Okay. Okay. So I'm more than happy to talk to you about that. And also, I think Alderman, that's a good question. I think the full council will be able to be briefed at the same time. We'll probably have a discussion next week in a closed session. All right, thank you. Thank you, good questions. Alderman Thunberg. Thanks, Mayor. I know we passed an ordinance not long ago on trailers, and I think there's some of that that has obviously been a problem in our city, and especially in our more urban areas of our city where some of those trailers were, impeding sight lines of vehicular traffic near neighborhood intersections and such but i'd like to at some point just put this in in some alderman's thoughts of revisiting that ordinance in such a way that maybe we could be a little bit more uh flexible on some things for instance a constituent that i i'm dealing with right now has one uh it is Via an alleyway and it's parked up on you know it It's not I would say it's not bothering anybody really unless maybe somebody's really looking for it But yet he's not in compliance Technically due to ordinance, but just wondering the thoughts may be coming up if there's possibly some flexibility Come up with that ordinance Certain cases. Thank you. Thank you Other reports from council alderman Beach. Thank you Along that same line. I have a lot not in my ward, but I've been Sent mail on it. There is like a billboard style trailer on this lot It's been there for almost a year and it seems like it's impossible to get it removed. And so I've set information to zoning and also neighbor standards. But I would appreciate if I could send this on to you. Perhaps you might look into it for us to see what we can do to actually get it taken off. Thank you very much. Thank you. Other reports? Alderman Bailey? Yeah, Mayor, I have a similar issue in my ward regarding housing. Trailer a variance and I'd like to you know forward information on you to take a look at it. So appreciate it Please do. Thank you other reports. Okay. Thank you next up Appointments laid over this appointment doesn't technically come up for two more days. So we'll keep moving forward We have found on that motions and resolutions and There's nothing under planning and development. So we'll go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Trina I'm sorry if you wanted to make your motion Right now would be the time. Oh, yeah, I'd like to make a motion to reconsider Sorry about that on the district facility as well as the You read in the full item in front of you. Oh, okay. I Yes, I'd like to make a motion to reconsider the committee report regarding the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the modification of an existing liquor license for 50% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 205 West State Street. Eric Carlson, John Murray, Downtown Rockford Restaurant, LL, doing business as a district bar and grill. And I would also like to ask legal, we want this to cover the stockyard location. That's the second one, if you can put that in. Thank you. So you want to do one at a time? Yes. Motion to reconsider the committee report regarding the liquor and tobacco advisory board approval the modification of an existing liquor license for 50% stock purchase in c2 limited commercial zoning district at 7 5 2 and 9 0 8 West Riverside Boulevard Eric Carlson John Murray North Town restaurant LLC doing business as half-baked applicant Okay, so council we have two separate motions to reconsider. I One is for the district at 205 West State Street. The other is for the business at 752 and 908 West Riverside. Is there a second to either or both? I'll second both. Alderman Bonney seconds both. So we have a motion and a second for those two motions to reconsider. Is there any discussion on that motion to reconsider? Alderman Thunberg? Yes. Thank You mayor again, I believe this would be almost parallel to the the instant the Establishment over there on Charles and five points per se Where it's kind of darned if you do darned if you don't in a sense that we've had issues at this establishment in the past it's on the cusp of the third ward butting up to the 13th Ward there So if it I'm afraid that if it continues under strictly the current ownership That things may continue I've talked to one of the individuals who is looking to to come under partial ownership of this and I have been assured that And I will hold the ownership to this that they will Increase security. They will make the parking lot part of the of walking throughout in that security detail The parking lot is I believe mostly where the incidents have occurred. I have flowed out of this establishment or maybe began in this establishment and then Incidents have happened in the parking lot. So I have been assured that they will drastically improve security there and So I just wanted to make those comments. Thank you. Thank you other discussion all the room Conti Thank you How would we as other persons be able to hold a? Someone to their plans hold them accountable director Meyer. Do you want to talk about the? The conditions that are put on Liquors liquor licenses and then those who do not follow those conditions what the next steps of that process may be sure So any liquor license that's passed or approved by counseling issued comes with several conditions one of them is general compliance with our entire liquor code chapter 3 and And all the provisions there and then typically we also have a number of conditions individual to each each location that can range for anything from amount of signage on the business hours of operation Date and time for sales what type of alcohol they can sell those are all become part of an ordinance that's approved by council and If there are violations, staff will typically start with a letter to the business owner and sort of go through what we call progressive discipline, start something small, and then go up to try to correct conditions. Ultimately, if we have to suspend or revoke a license, the issue goes before the Liquor Commission, not through City Council. So the Liquor Commission has, I believe, three aldermen on it plus the mayor, and they will hear the hearing. So the item would not necessarily come back before council for revocation. I think also just specifically and just not picking on you but just more than uh most recently me and you worked on another issue that happened to be in the third ward uh and the alderman I would say equally brought that uh I happen to be well aware of it as a former alderman of the area but uh we equally brought that up as a concern and just making sure that we're keeping an eye on it so that if there are breaks to those restrictions that we are jumping on it not letting anything slide If I can add, one of the things the council should be aware of is when these come through, we have standard conditions of approval, and council can take this as an opportunity to make additional conditions of approval that it sees fit for licenses, both for modifications and any new use that comes in. Alderman Bailey? Yeah, this is not part of the 13th Ward, but I made it clear today with the individual who approached my colleagues. That was unacceptable. So and I've spoken with legal you know, I patronize the district, but you know, we just need to be diligent and You know dealing with the issues that this organization has has had in the downtown area based upon what we're trying to do So those are my comments. Thank you any other discussion? and this is simply a boat on the motion to reconsider which brings it back before this body Weeks in two weeks, so this isn't for it to be approved It's just so that we can have the same discussion again in two weeks about a potential approval for it So could you please call the roll? turkey Logman tumor Tarina plenty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks. Yes. Yes, you can they are two separate. Yes, you can Bailey Bonnie Item number one is 10 ayes, three noes, and item number four is nine ayes, four noes. Thank you. So both will be considered, reconsidered in two weeks. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Mogerman. I have seven items. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP utility bill printing to Allison Payment Systems of Doxum, Indianapolis, or of Indianapolis, Indiana for an estimated $1,000. annual amount $425,000 the contract duration is one year with four one-year renewals the funding source of the finance department Operating budget item number two committee recommends approval of the award of bid tree purchases to Goodmark nursery of Wonder Lake Illinois ACAC nursery of Loves Park, Illinois Skeetles nursery of Springville, New York for an estimated contract value of $40,000 annually based on unit pricing the contract duration is through December 31st 2024 with four possible one-year extension options Annual price adjustments for CPI considered at contract renewal only the funding sources sales tax item number three Committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract Westside tractor sales heavy equipment for one John Deere Backhoe loader with breaker attachment and one John Deere and loader to Westside tractor sales contract of Rockford, Illinois for the purchase of backhoe loader, end loader, subtotal $529,573, less a trade-in of $142,000 for a total cost of $387,573. The funding sources are Street Division Operating Budget General Fund, $252,705, and the Water Fund Operating Budget, $134,868. Item number four, committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreements, citywide pavement preservation, 10 year plan to the engineering enterprises. Rockford, Illinois in the amount of sixty seven thousand nine hundred seventy two dollars project is estimated to be completed by December 2024 the funding sources the 1% infrastructure sales tax item number five the committee recommends the approval of the award of professional services for architectural design of emergency operations senator Larson and Darby of Rockford Illinois for an amount not to exceed eighty thousand dollars the contract duration is one year the funding sources the fire department operating budget a Item number six the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Illinois Department of Human Services rapid rehousing grant program the grant award will provide additional funds in the amount of $70,000 for a total of four hundred seventy four thousand one hundred sixty nine dollars The grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is from July 1st 2023 to June 30th 2024. I Eligible clients will receive a direct vendor payment to their landlord, electric and or heating bill. And finally, item number seven, the committee recommends approval of the application, the acceptance of the grant award from the Winnebago County Community Mental Health Board in the amount of $4,864,312.16. The grant does not require a cost match, and the grant term is from June 1, 2024 to May 31, 2027. The purpose of the grant is to provide continued funding to the mobile integrated health mental health program established by the City of Rockford Fire Department in partnership with UW Health. That's it. Thank you. Council, we've got seven items before us. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Abstaining on seven. Aye on the rest. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Torino fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie items 1 through 6 13 eyes item 7 12 eyes 1 of state Thank you counsel. We're gonna go back if it's okay with you Director Meyer was able to garner some information regarding Roman numeral 6 B 10 which was a committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the hookah lounge and BYOB in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 25 10 South Alpine Road So we had two questions that were out there regarding those regarding that item And the first two questions that we have one was from alderman beach that revolved around our Will they be selling all different types of tobacco or only the tobacco utilized? With hookah and the second question came from alderman Tumor which revolves around the byo B portion Does it limit it to two drinks and the sizes those? Cocktails is that accurate? So to answer the first question about the reason there's a Tobacco was mentioned is that the owner has to have a tobacco license in order to sell hookah However, the ordinance the hookah lounge requires that the products that be sold and inhaled Contain hookah products and it's not just something where you can go in and smoke a cigar or cigarette So they need to be hookah products specifically under the ordinance the second question about Alcohol, there's there's no provision in Under section 8 which talks about BYOB limiting the number of drinks consumed or the size of those drinks that can be consumed Thank you. And just since I have a feeling there'll be a lots of follow-up on that will the staff at this establishment have all the same training requirements and responsibilities that a typical bar would have and That's correct. They're specifically required under subsection 13 to go through all of the BASA training that you would typically see required from a liquor license. And they also have to comply with all the rest of our liquor code that's not in conflict with this hookah ordinance. Thank you. Now that we have this one item before us, and we've had two questions, what other questions do we have regarding this one item? Alderman Beach. I appreciate you having that research tonight, Your Honor. So I understand that this hookah lounge is going to be just like any other liquor establishment. except the fact they can also offer the hookah privileges. So if we want to go out there for a drink of any kind, we can go there. If we want to smoke hookah, we can go there. Is that what I understand? Our legal director said to us. So if you want to consume alcohol, you would need to bring your own bottle. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. I guess in how you initially framed it, like I think you said something like this is very similar to any other. I would say it's very different than any other. Yes. I can see that. Thank you, sir. Alderman Bonnie. Thank you, Mayor. Just to put this back in a little bit of context, it's. The BYOB, the B is bottle, not necessarily booze. And part of the reason for the request for this is because without it, you can't so much as bring in a bottle of water or a bottle of soda and drink it on site without this provision because you can't, they can't, they can't sell any any food or beverage alcoholic non-alcoholic so they and it's very difficult for a hookah establishment to turn a profit if they have to in order to turn a profit people need to spend a certain amount of time there and if they can't even have a drink of water it's difficult to get people to sit in the hookah lounge long enough to be able to make money so it And in order to accommodate any of that under state law and under our own ordinances, and the legal director can correct me if I'm wrong, BYOB provision was really the only way to do it. Director Meyer. So the way, prior to the modification, there was, you're correct, there was a prohibition on any food or drink of any kind in a hookah establishment. The ordinance changes we made last year allowed BYOB both alcohol and non-alcoholic bottle. They are prohibited under state law from holding both a liquor license and a hookah license as well, which is why it's BYOB and not some sort of additional license. However, we framed it in such a way that it's very similar. There's still a deposit requirement like you would with a liquor license and you are required to comply with all the rules and regulations. You just don't carry a license. You carry a permit for BYOB.
 MR.
 Excellent. MR. And if I could add as well. I believe of the vast majority of hookah establishments that exist in Illinois have this have BYO be met most of them in Chicago But including another here in Winnebago County where you where it's far more common that Hookah lounge has BYO be then doesn't have BYO be thank you all their woman makes I Was just Feeling like a little bit of deja vu here that we've already had these same conversations and then we voted on all of this and Asked it. So am I right about that? I I think you're 100% right on the fact that we've had very similar conversations to this. I don't recall the exact vote on this, but we have had much of this exact same questions and conversation. Yeah, I'm pretty sure it passed, so okay. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose? Just for clarity, I understand your frustration on the ability for it to pass, but just because we've only done it once, I think, beforehand – And it was such a long time ago. I think it's good to clarify for people. So the owners cannot distribute, cannot sell alcohol, and cannot give out alcohol. Is that correct? That's correct. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Alderman Beach. I did recall the discussions initially before BYOB was on the table years ago. Not that many years ago. And we asked those questions. How do you survive with just the hookah, the tobacco, the juice, and that kind of thing? And we were given all kinds of reasons why it would survive. But now, since they decided that it can't survive, they found a way around it by allowing to bring their own alcohol in. I'm not making a judgment on it, but I'm only saying what other businesses are there in Rockford right now that aren't allowed to have a so-called electoral license can go ahead now and get an electoral license and have this come and pass, bring their own in, wherever it might be. Is this something that's going to come back to bite us by allowing this to occur? And what responsibility do we have? for business owners to come in to open up a business to ensure a profit should that not have been worked out and discussed before they ever went into business with a business plan as to whether it's going to work or not and i want them to be successful all businesses but is that our responsibility here since they've now decided they couldn't to come back and ask us to change this kind of a law thank you for your time sir so i'll touch on a little bit of that in Need to do this as well since we it does feel like deja vu all over again, but this is a new application and with new ownership for this application. And just want to remind everyone, and I'm saying this as much for myself, we've approved the ordinance, so we're not debating the ordinance. We should be debating just this licensure for this new applicant. And I believe, and Alderman Beach, I want to make sure I get your question right, Were you saying are there other businesses that could come forward for some form of modification to their license? Yes. And, Director Meyer, I guess the quick answer is no. The longer answer is yes, if they have an alderman who is going to go through the same process that I think Alderman Bonney went through, which was to – Work with legal department to draft an ordinance that worked around that business Bring it forward get that ordinance passed now come forward through that whole process. So I don't want to say no forever But I think the short answer for your direct question No, another business can't come forward and say they want this unless it's a hookah lounge business but If you wanted to and I'm not saying you would but if you wanted your auto mechanic and your ward to Begin to be able to sell booze you could come and work with the legal department and work through that to do so It may be an uphill battle, but it could be done That answer that you did. Thank you, sir. Of course Alderman Bonnie, I think you just covered most of what I wasn't gonna say mayor, but um just to reiterate I Yes, we have already debated and already approved this council an amendment to our HUCA ordinance to allow BYOB as a component, including the question that the third ward alderman asked that started the whole re-debate of all of this. That question was also already asked and answered however many months ago it was that we passed Now we have an application under our newly amended ordinance to reopen under different ownership the only hookah establishment that would exist in the city of Rockford. And if any other sort of business were to want to have liquor privileges of any kind, legal director, Certainly correct me if I'm wrong. This was a unique situation This was an amendment to the hookah ordinance if a car dealer wanted to sell alcohol They would need to amend the liquor ordinance, which is a bigger broader ordinance And under this in this situation if you're not a hookah lounge And you're not doing most of your business when there's a percentage so I forget what it is, but if you're not doing most of your business and selling hookah products then you can't even apply so It's not like a car mechanic or a dry cleaner a bookstore can come in under and ask under the hookah ordinance because they're not they're not selling hookah products and even if they were to sell I Think that question was even asked even if they were to get a hookah license They'd still have to be doing a majority of their business as a as a hookah lounge Not as a car dealer or as a book you can't just add hookah on to then try to get BYOB Unless you're doing the majority of your business as a hookah lounge. Thank you other discussion. Oh Clerk, can you please call the roll on just item 10? Gerke, Logeman, Toomer, Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie. Aye. Ten ayes, three noes. All right. Moving right along. New business. We have nothing under planning and development committee, so we'll go to code and regulation committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, an ordinance establishing a mid-block pedestrian crossing at 330 Brummer Street. Number three, an ordinance approving an honorary street name designation on a portion of Court Street from Cedar Street to Chestnut Street to be renamed John Briggs Way in honor of John Briggs, the first African American hotel owner in Rockford, Illinois. Number four, an ordinance establishing a mid-block pedestrian crossing at 330 Brummer Street. number four an ordinance approving the annexation of 104 atwood avenue number five an ordinance approving the annexation of 1945 blackhawk road number six an ordinance approving the annex item seven an ordinance approving the annexation agreement for 4500 spring creek road number 10 Wait number nine an ordinance approving the sale tobacco products in conjunction with lounge BYOB in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 25 10 South Alpine Road number 10 an ordinance approving the sale of pre Excuse me the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store in auto mechanic shop and a c2 district at 31 35 North Rockton Avenue item 11 in ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station convenience store and auto mechanic shop in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 31 35 North Rockton Avenue Item 12 in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink with a tavern live entertainment video-gaming terminals and outdoor seating in an area seating area in a c4 urban mix to zoning district at 308 State Street and Then number 14 in ordinance tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 3 11 to 3 13 Mulberry Street. Thank you. Thank you clerk Just so I have this accurate I believe 2 8 13 and 15 all laid over Okay, counsel. Do you have any questions on the remaining items clerk? Will you please call the roll? Logum in tuber Karina Frente Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie and I'm number one three four five six seven 13 eyes item number nine ten eyes three nose item ten eleven twelve eyes one No, and I'm 11 13 eyes 12 12 eyes one note and 14 13 eyes. I Thank you. Next we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Logerman. Thank you. Two items up. The first item, an ordinance approving the release of liens to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County trustee properties located at 7XX Hartford Avenue, 325 North Day Avenue, 302 North Henrietta Avenue, 323 Royal Avenue. 321 Royal Avenue, 618 Maple Street, 616 Maple Street, Bishop Washington Avenue, and Horton Street. Item number two in ordinance, approving the revisions to the amended 2024 fee schedule. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the two items before us? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Tunberg. Tarina. Frente. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey? Bonnie? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.