21 city council meeting clerk. Could you please call the roll? You put yourself on mute so that we can hear uh the clerk call the role, uh, Thank you Yeah
 Here. Irby? Irvin? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Here. Hoffman? Rose? Here. Beach? Kenona? Here. Hanley? McNeely? Here. 13-7. Thank you. Director Meyer has her invocation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you Mr. Mayor. As the invitation says, all the mercies of God, we implore you to bring healing and well-being to all those who have been ravaged by the pandemic that was pervasive in our community and our country. We pray for the souls of those who have left us during this pandemic, and for the families who have been left behind to suffer their loss. We also pray for guidance to our mayor and city council to find solutions,
 to the many things that he improved in our community, our divisions and disunities that keep us from moving ahead. Prayer from the High Sacred Reader. O Alkiah and Ruth, O God who are generous and merciful, who are the servants of thy threshold and are gathered beneath the sheltering shadow of thy divine unity,
 The sun of thy mercy is shining upon all, and the clouds of thy bounty shower upon all. Thy gifts encompass all, thy loving providence sustains us all, thy protections overshadow all. The wonders of thy favor are cast upon all. The Lord grant thy infinite bestowals, and let the light of thy guidance shine. Move and open your eyes, and gladden the hearts with abiding joy. Control a new spirit upon all people, and bestow upon them eternal life.
 unlock the gates of true understanding, and let the light of faith shine with splendor. Let people believe the shadow of Ibane and cause them to unite in harmony,
 so that they may become as the rays of one sun, as the rays of one ocean, and as the fruit of one tree. May they drink from the same fountain. May they be refreshed from the same breeze. May they receive a little bit of ordination from the same source of life. Thou art the giver, the merciful, and the omnipotent. Amen.
 Thank you, Director Meyer. At this time, if you'd like to participate in the pledge, you can certainly unmute yourself and participate. By the legions of the flag of the United States of America, equipment for which it stands one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, thank you.
 Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 4th, 2021? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Question, please call the roll. Turkey. Aye. Bozeman. Schoenberg. Frost. Kirby. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Telly. Aye. Aye.
 Hoffman Aye Rose Beech Aye Jonas Stanley McNeely Aye 13 aye Thank you This evening we do not have any proclamations under petitions and communications
 Item A1, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director regarding the application and award acceptance for the surface transportation block grant, 9th Street two-way conversion referred to Planning and Development Committee. We also have one item that is not in your packet.
 being referred. Renewal of development agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford area convention and visitors bureau for the four city beautiful initiative. We also have a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, public works director regarding an application and award acceptance for the surface transportation block grant, Harrison Avenue improvements referred to planning and development.
 Under Code and Regulation Committee, we have two items. Item 1, Memorandum from the Superior Bond Assistant City Attorney regarding the proposed hookah ordinance, Chapter 3, Article 5 of the City of Oregon Act.
 I brought up the code of ordinances, refer to Code and Regulation Committee. Item two, traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on February 10th, 2021, and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 22nd, 2021. It's been referred to Code and Regulation Committee. We have no items under C, which was finance and personnel. So we'll move to public speakers and I believe,
 Director Meyer has comments from one public speaker, which would be Mr. John Patron. Mr. any comments from Mr. Brantley? Oh, bear with me. Sorry, Alderman, give me one second as I... . Sorry, Alderman, one second.
 I don't see that I have any here, which is a little odd. But I don't see any in my inbox either, Director Meyer. So we'll move on, new committee reports. Oh, is it okay if I read these new committee reports? Yes, sir. Thank you, just asking the chairs just to see if it's all right.
 Okay. Under new committee reports, item A, Planning and Development Committee, committee recommends approval of the 2021 Annual Action Plan HUD Grants Program, Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnerships Program, and Emergency Solutions Grants Program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Any discussion on that item? So could you please call the roll?
 Okay. Logeman? Toomer? Aye. Toomer? Thank you. Alderman Frost? Herbie? Irvin? Aye. Thompson-Telly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Aye. Quinona? Hanley? Aye. McNeely?
 Are we voting just on A1 under new committee reports? Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Excuse me. Are we just voting on A1? Yes. Okay, no. I have missed voting on the prior items then. This is the first item we're voting on.
 Okay, then I'm not. I got confused. Thank you. So how would you like to vote on this item? Roman numeral 5A1. I voted no. Okay. Okay, 12I1 no on that vote. Thank you. So 5B, which is Code and Regulation Committee. We have eight items.
 We recommend sustaining the Traffic Commission approval to repeal the 20-mile-per-hour school zone speed limit on Church Street from Salem Street to Summer Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item two, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval to repeal the 20 mile per hour school zone speed limit on Court Street from John Street to Salem Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item three, committee recommends approval of the tentative plot of Kilburn Point subdivision. Item four, committee recommends approval of the final plot of Kilburn Point subdivision.
 Item 5, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to allow a driveway in the front yard in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 4425 Blackstone Avenue.
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 6, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for body art services and a C3 general commercial zoning district at 4604 East 8th Street. Subject to conditions.
 Item 7, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals to now for a variation to increase the maximum number of allowed business identification wall signs above the ground of the structure from 2 to 3 in a C2 limited commercial zoning district and an R4 multifamily residential zoning district at 1700 North Alpine Road.
 Item A, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for the renewal of a special use permit to allow a solar energy generating facility in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 5430 North Main Street, subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare all appropriate witnesses. Alderman, there's eight items before you. Is there any discussion on those eight items?
 I have a question. Thank you. I'm sorry, I just lost the agenda. I'm sorry, I just very quickly need to make sure I get the right number. It's the one on Gladstone, the driveway. I wanted to ask staff, there's a comment that says that they could have changed their request
 to bring it within the ordinance. I wasn't understanding. Staff recommended denial. And I was trying to understand what it was staff meant by what the owner or the contractor could have done to bring this driveway into compliance.
 Alderman, this is Director Franzen. I appreciate the question. You're correct that we didn't recommend denial as this is on its face, not allowed by the zoning ordinance, although it does have support of the alderman of the ward. I would have to go back to Scott and zoning the land use of planners to see what additional...
 I don't know exactly what options we provided them. I'll follow up. To tell just from the picture, but it just looks like the parking lot is not the right place. I don't know exactly what options we provided them. I'll follow up. I don't know exactly what the parking lot is. I don't know exactly what the parking lot is. I don't know exactly what the parking lot is.
 Like, it takes the drive out of character. I don't know what the rest of the houses look like. But it sounds like it's sort of a recent development or young or. Development hard to tell. My concern with it, I always like to support. If an alderman doesn't mind. But where something like this is just a clear violation, there's no hardship.
 This is on the contractor. Contractor has the absolute duty to obtain those permits unless he's got another agreement with the homeowner and should know what they're doing. I just worry that we're going to keep granting these kinds of variances that don't really...
 have any support. They're not a hardship. Somebody didn't get the right permit or they do it without a permit and then they come and ask for forgiveness. I just think this goes back to the contractor and I hate to see us grant these kinds of variances where it's going to become somewhat of an eyesore and for that reason, I want to be consistent with that, but
 Thank you. Thank you. Is there further discussion? Could you please call the roll? Turkey. Hogan. Teinberg. Aye. Brass. Aye. Kirby. I'm sorry. I'm still trying to find my... I'm sorry. Can you come back to me? I need to find the...
 Sure. Is it the Blackstone? Is it Blackstone or Gladstone? I think that's Blackstone. Yes. The driveway 3425 Blackstone. To number five. Yeah, thank you. I'm a no on that one. I am a no.
 Irvin? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Booth? Aye. Beach? Neely? Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 51, 52, 53, 52, 53, 52, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53, 53
 13 ayes, item number 5, 12 ayes, 1 no, item 6, 7, and 8, 13 ayes. Thank you. Item C is Finance and Personnel Committee. We have two items. Committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $8,257,598.36, as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on January 20, 2021.
 Item two, committee recommends approval of an ordinance making supplemental appropriations for the City of Oxford and municipal corporation to finance those functions pertaining to its government and affairs including the library fund for the fiscal year 2021. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate order. So we have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Okay. Thank you.
 please call the roll aye hogeman aye ross irving irvin aye thompson kelly aye huffman bro beach
 I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you. Alderman McMilley? Aye. Thank you. 13 aye. Thank you. Our next appointments are laid over, so we'll go to motions and resolutions. Item A is planning and development. We have no items. Item B is code and regulation committee, and we have one item. Committee recommends approval of a resolution designating a deputy clerk, ex officio,
 keeper of records and seal for the city of Boston. Is there any discussion? Erke Roseman Aye Frost Frost Aye Kirby Aye Irvin Thompson-Kelley Aye Hoffman Aye Rowe
 Beach, Quinones? Aye. Stanley? Aye. McNeely? 13 aye. Thank you. Letter C, Finance and Personnel Committee. We have seven items.
 One committee recommends approval of the award of bid, water production supplies and materials to Core 7 Maine of Deer, Illinois and Dorner Company of Sussex, Wisconsin for an estimated annual contract value of 100,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through December 31st, 2021 with one possible annual extension. Annual price adjustments for CPI considered a contract renewal only versus a water fund operating budget.
 I think the committee recommends approval of the contract change order water systems improvement design and inspection services to fairground engineering and environmental link approximately original contract was for 650 000 additional amount of 300 000 total amended amount 950 000. in 2021 the city of record water division was approved for
 for a third forgivable loan in the amount of four million by the iepa which is double the amount received for each of the past two loans however due to the loan increase which will allow for additional web service line replacement staff are offering authorizing an increase of 300 000 to the existing contract to cover the additional work that will be needed to continue to implement and manage the program water system improvements the funding sources of water fund operating budget
 Item 3 committee recommends approval of the award of engineering. Harrison Avenue reconstruction to fair. My mom. I'm going to mute you just so we don't hear the conversation.
 So I'm going to repeat item number three committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement. Harrison Avenue reconstruction to fairground with rocket armory and the amount of 453,565 dollars. The project will be completed in 2021 funding sources, motor fuel tax funds.
 Item four, committee recommends approval of the resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for use of motor fuel tax funds for Harrison Avenue reconstruction in the amount of $600,000. Item five, committee recommends approval of the award of RFP, Citywide Pavement Condition Analysis to Infrastructure Solutions Inc. of Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. I apologize to all Canadians.
 for an amount not to exceed 60,000 in applied pavement technology of Urbana Illinois in the amount of $213,933 the project will be completed in 2021 the funding sources member fuel tax item six committee recommends approval of the resolution for improvement under the Illinois highway code for the use of other fuel tax funds for the city-wide asset management and capital planning in the amount of 300,000
 Item 7, committee recommends approval of the supplemental road solution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code requires council approval for the use of motor fuel tax funds for U.S. Business 20 which is West State Street from Meridian Road to Springfield Avenue for revocation of traffic signal equipment. The additional amount requested is $1,000 for a total amount of $6,000. So Alderman, we have seven items before you.
 And Alderman McNeely, I did mute your phone. So if you hit star six, you can unmute yourself. I am not able to unmute yourself this way. So Alderman McNeely, we have seven items before you. Is there any discussion on those seven items? I have a question. Yes, ma'am. I want to understand why for West 8th Street, we're using MFT dollars
 I understand why we're using it on West State, but why we're not on the Harrison? Director Saunders, are you with us there? Which would be number three. Now we're using MFT on number three. It was one item where it doesn't say MFT for Harrison. Help me to understand that please.
 Kyle Saunders, for the preliminary engineering work that we are doing on Harrison Avenue from Kishwaukee to Main Street. Director Saunders, sorry, your microphone is very, very low and I'm going to guess that some may have a difficulty hearing you. Could you repeat that and not make you scream, but if you could speak up, that'd be great. All right. Can you hear me better now?
 a little bit a little bit okay i can hear you on the harrison avenue preliminary engineering um scope that we're proposing this evening we are using mft funds to cover the cost of the engineering work um and that
 And then in item seven for West State Street, the relocation of traffic signal equipment, that is, we're also using MFT to fund that improvement as well. And that's really just relocating preemption and video detection equipment off of our traffic signals on two intersections. All right, thank you. I'm not seeing what I thought I seen, so thank you though. Thank you. So there's seven items before you. Is there any further discussion?
 could you please start at all Thompson Kelly hi Hoffman hi
 Thank you. Alderman Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Finley? Aye. McNeely? No on the one, aye on the remaining. Item number 1, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll move to Roman numeral 8, new business.
 Under planning and development, we have one item. The board answer approving the 2021 annual action plan HUD grant programs, which means development block grant, home investment partnerships program, and emergency solutions grant programs. Is there any discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Sturkey. Roggeman. Aye. Humber. Aye. Covey. Ruben.
 ALDERMAN URBAN. AYE. THANK YOU. JOHNSON KELLY. AYE. BOTHMAN. ROSE. EACH. NONA. AYE. FANLEY. AYE. MCNEILLY. NO.
 12 ayes, one no. Thank you. Next we'll go to item B, Code and Regulation Committee. We have five items. Item one, an ordinance approving the repeal of the 20 mile per hour school zone speed limit on Church Street from Salem Street to Summer Street.
 Item two, an ordinance approving the repeal of the 20 mile per hour school zone speed limit on Court Street from John Street to Salem Street. Number three, an ordinance approving a variation to allow a driveway in the front yard in the R1 single family residential zoning district at 3425 Blackstone Avenue.
 Number four, an ordinance approving a special use permit for body art services in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 4604 East State Street. Number five, an ordinance approving the renewal of a special use permit to allow a solar energy generating facility in an I1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 5430 North Main Street.
 you have five items before you is there any discussion on those five items please call the role turkey hi open in thank you timber grass hi kelly hi
 Beech? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Stanley? Aye. Lynn McNally? Aye. Stacey? 13 aye.
 Thank you. Next we'll go to item C, Finance and Council Committee. In ordinance approving the supplemental, item one, sorry. In ordinance approving the supplemental appropriations for the City of Rockford and Municipal Corporation to finance those functions pertaining to its government and affairs including the library fund for the fiscal year 2021. Any discussion on that one item?
 First we please call the roll. Aye. Logeman? Tumberg? Aye. Grants? Kirby? Thompson-Culley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Roses, an aye. Beach? Smith? Aye. Stanley? Aye. McNeely?
 13 aye. So that brings us to officers reports. Just one item that I want to make everyone aware of. City Hall will be opening on February 8th. That's next Monday.
 That also means that we will have in-person council meetings beginning next Monday. I want you all to know that we've put in place a host of protocols that include
 Many of the same protocols that we've had previously, 1 mass will be required temperature check for anyone entering the building and for those who are doing business with the city of Oxford. There is social distancing markers put in place. There's also security or safety measures for staff put in place for city council.
 We will allow speakers to be up in council chambers, but any other guests at this time, we're gonna have in the lobby, just so that we can reduce the number of individuals all in one room.
 That's the information I have for you starting next week. Last other thing is we typically always get an email from Mr. John Tack Brantley with his speaking items. I don't want to shortchange him, so I will reach out to him either tonight or tomorrow and see if he sent one and I didn't see it or can't find it or if maybe he forgot to send it. And I'll ensure that each of you get his comments
 If you have any prepared with that, I'll turn it over to Alderman for Alderman reports and we'll start with Alderman Durkin. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a compliment to the city staff and Kyle.
 Uh, in company for getting the streets clean. I thought they did a great job and the other is, um, we've had some abandoned vehicles and some other problems with some property in the 1st word. To compliment both Kyle and Matt Flores and Matt's attention to, um. Really getting rid of these unfortunate habits that people have that make our city look. Uh, not so good. So so cool. It's for the staff. Thanks.
 Thank you Alderman Durkee. Uh, Max Alderman. Just going to say ditto what Alderman Durkee said. Um,
 But yesterday, I think I relayed this to Kyle, but I only got like one phone call. But the first phone call I received during the day was from Director Saunders himself. So not only a wonderful job overall, but then I very much appreciate the just the continued outreach from the team on city staff. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Tumor. Thanks, Mayor. Yes, I'd like to say thank you also to Kyle and Mitch and Tim Sullivan, Manning, the phones are as well. Also, Laura and I, just to let the rest of the aldermen know,
 Laura Mayer and I are working on a form that could probably be hopefully downloaded from the city website. The idea is for doing the number of calls for odd even and ticketing and all that. And it seems as though many, much of the issues are in neighborhoods with high rental, amount of high rental units.
 So I reached out to the head of the apartment association and they said they would get the word out also to Connor Brown of the Realtors Association. This would be a form that would detail uneven services.
 The process, I know it's out there on social media, but they would also give it out to their renters. They posted in their buildings, they could also get it. That's it thanks for working on that. And ultimately, we're gone next to Alderman props.
 Thank you, Mayor. Again, it's nice that during a major snow event that I, like Alderman Logeman, I did not receive any phone calls from residents, which is probably a first in eight years during a big snowfall of a street not getting missed or getting missed or a mailbox getting hit or just actually stunning. And hats off to Kyle for managing the entire city crews as well as our private contractors. Thank you.
 However, I have gotten several phone calls in the last probably two weeks, or especially this last week, regarding coyotes. I don't believe it's quite coyote breeding season yet, but there's definitely been an uptick in coyotes.
 In in coyote activity, I've seen them myself as well. And I just want to make sure residents are careful when your dogs out to keep an eye on them. I don't know what I'm going to be addressed to and what the department but I. I believe we reached out to someone in the Illinois.
 Department of Natural Resources in the past. And maybe we could see what the state is willing to do or let residents know what they can and can't do with respect to coyotes short of trapping them. And I don't know, Alden Beach contacted me as well about this. He was, I think, reached out to someone about this.
 IF THE CITY HAS THE ABILITY TO WORK WITH SOMEBODY TO DO SOME TRACKING ACTIVITY AND OR ANY OTHER ACTIVITY. SO I'M ALL EARS BECAUSE IT IS A SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM. AND I DON'T KNOW WHY THIS YEAR IS WORSE THAN OTHERS. BUT THEY REALLY JUST SEEM TO GET BOLDER AND BOLDER WHERE THEY REALLY SEEM TO ROLL. THANK YOU. ALTERMAN FROST.
 this is wester about a year ago i think and some of the aldermen may have um attended this alderman shirely put together a presentation at i think it was out at d3 they had idnr come in a couple other there was also a private company that tracks this and there was a lot of people there i mean there was probably 60 or 70 in attendance um we can go back and look for that information
 I CAN PROBABLY TRACK THAT DOWN AND SEE WHAT WAS SHARED. I THINK IN THE END MY INTERPRETATION OF THE MEETING IS VERY INFORMATIVE. IT PROBABLY WOULD NOT BE BAD TO BRING THEM IN AGAIN TO EDUCATE PEOPLE ABOUT IT. I THINK THEY KNOCKED DOWN A LOT OF MISCONCEPTIONS. THEY ALSO WENT THROUGH KIND OF THE RULES OF WHAT YOU CAN AND CANNOT DO.
 But it was a lot of really good valuable information, and that might be something that we could organize again. But I will look for that, the materials I know that we got. Yeah, and maybe we can put some sort of link or summarize that on the city's webpage to let residents know exactly what they can and can't do.
 Okay, I will get in there tomorrow. Great, thank you. Yep. All right, thank you. Alderman Hervey. My comment kind of dovetails on the compliments for what the city is doing with snow removal. But on some of my secondary streets, not residential, but Winnebago, some of those where parking is allowed on, well, Winnebago one side,
 We simply do not get people who will move. Everybody had a fit last year when I said I was going to ask for no parking on both sides of Winnebago. It creates a hazard. I was out today, one of the first times in a long time that I've actually left the house, and...
 Going down Winnebago, you watch the bus try to squeeze in with a larger SUV. And it's difficult. And when the snow piles up because the people won't move their cars, then when they do move their cars, it gets pushed back out into the street. So cars are driving across the center line.
 to be on clean ground and not be in that sandy, wet, pushy snow. I'm going to again ask if we could look at some kind of ordinance that would not allow parking from November 1st to April 1st or December 1st. The snow emergency is simply not working in places with high rental units where you don't have the...
 neighborhood continuity and cohesion that you do with home ownership. We just don't have it. And I've got areas where probably 80% of Winnebago is rental property from Montague to Morgan. After Morgan, it's a state issue and you can't park there at all. So, yeah.
 I would like to ask, I'm going to ask staff to look at that again, and I would like my colleagues to take some consideration of that, too. It's not the same everywhere. Even the word, I admire what Officer Thunberg is trying to do, and I really hope it makes a difference.
 I did the same thing, but this is what I got this year. I backed off and said, yep, let's give it some time. You need to get a hold of all of your people. And, of course, everybody shows up when it's the meeting about making it no parking. Then as soon as we're done, there's apparently no follow-up for parking.
 I'd even, um, and, and getting cooperation from the tenant. So, um, I am going to be submitting that again. Um, other than that, I think staff did a great job too. Um, but it is getting difficult where you have narrow streets and people who don't comply with the parking emergency parking. Thank you. Uh, next Alderman Irvin. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Yeah, I just wanted to echo the same thing as far as city staff. You know, Kyle has demonstrated and gone above and beyond and out of his way to make sure that he addressed any of my concerns. And then there's –
 get his name, there was a new contractor working for the city of Rockford. It's first time he's supervisor of the route out here in the sixth ward. I can tell you that he provided exceptional service. You know, I was pulling into my culture sack and I saw him actually dealing with some of the concerns of the residents in the area where, you know, the team had made conditions a little worse for,
 for the residents. And so he went out of his way to make sure that, uh, that before he left that area, that it was properly taken care of. You know, I can't say I've gotten that type of service within these last few years of being in, uh, in this position. And so I'm, I'm really appreciative to him.
 And to Kyle as well, there was areas that wasn't even in my ward that I, you know, bought to Kyle, and he jumped right on it. So, Kyle, I appreciate that, and keep up the good work, man. And then also, speaking of the coyotes, coyotes are usually a little smaller than, you know, the dogs. You know, I would say that what I saw were wolves off of Mulford and Sandy Hollow.
 I don't know if you guys know where it tees at. I would say about 40 feet off of that intersection, there were two adult wolves. I have a dog, a pit lab. He's about 100 pounds, and he comes up to my waist.
 these animals were larger than him. And so just want to let you guys know that. And I didn't know what we could do about that, but you know, there's plenty of residential homes in that area. And those, the wolves are approaching really close. So yeah, that was all. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kellett.
 I've only got one thing I want to know from our clerk if it would be okay for us to sign our committee reports when we come back on February the 8th Yes I'll have them all ready in council chambers for everyone to sign Thank you That's all Alderman Hoffman You're on mute
 everybody else has said and that is that Kyle and Public Works has done an excellent job I think I have had one complaint and it wasn't huge most of what I'm hearing though are that people just will not follow the odd even and
 No parking signs aren't working. They're parking there too. They're doing what they want and they're parking on the street. I really don't know the answer. However, Officer Bakey and Officer Dodd have done a phenomenal job. And I believe they had eight cars towed out of Rolling Green last week. And I want to commend them for that. It was time. They gave them a couple days. They tried to be lenient.
 People didn't move. They got them told. So, thank you, Mayor. Thank you. All of them. And then there was. Sorry about that. I'll talk to drop this little 1 out here. So she, she heard and came running to the to wait. On a serious note. Yeah, I mean, the situation is.
 a serious one. I had a family member who lost a dog about two weeks ago, just north of Rockford. And so, you know, when you hear the rumors of them going after small pets, it does happen. And there are a lot of coyotes in this area. And so just keep track of your dogs and small pets because they will go after them and target them. So on a separate note, I just wanted to say
 Kyle and the staff, Mitch Larby, who runs the operation for snow. But another item that came up was, I think it was Carl's team who is doing the roof repair program for the city. And I believe it's up to $30,000 in roof repairs for owner occupied homes. And I know the,
 applications are due in a few weeks. And I was hoping, you know, I wasn't sure if that was a hard deadline or not, but due to COVID and everything, I was hoping we could maybe extend that a little bit because
 such a new program. I'm not sure if a lot of people are aware of it and just wanted to kind of put it out there that there is help for homeowner, owner-occupied buildings that have much needed roof repairs in the city of Rockford. They need to get a hold of our economic development office and they can go out and application. But they are due right now, February 12th. So
 director franzen was too late the first day that we made folks aware of it we actually soft launched on friday mayor uh and thank you alderman rules for uh
 uh pointing attention to uh this program uh we do anticipate uh significant demand and we'll accept uh registrations or free applications uh until the 12th as far as expecting the deadline due to the demand in our capacity we're going to follow through on this but as soon as this program is over we'll have our cdbg rehab program
 which Alderman just approved tonight with the 2021 action plan and with our ineligible expense with that. And so we'll have additional capacity to support residents who have home repairs. That meet the income and the program guidelines. Explaining that much better than I am so that's really all I had there.
 Okay, Alderman Wilson, I'll just take a quick break and say I think Alderman Logan has the cutest guests at his home. He has a couple of little cute kids who keep popping in, and they look really cute. So next we will go to Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I don't know, Your Honor, a long about what Alderman Durkee said to me.
 Ours this past week. I got great help from the tenant, Wadden and the community service officer, Richard Todd, to solve a problem that's been going on over there for months. I appreciate that. I also appreciate Kyle. Everyone was talking about him, but you know, it's true. He's up and over his board and trying to help us get these problems solved, especially with the snow. I want to ask one question, what we can do, you know, on the school buses that have different routes throughout the community,
 uh plows are plowing the curbs in on both sides so there's actually no place other than the street for the children to stand waiting for the school bus i don't know if there's anything we can really do about it but it seems to be a burden for the home homeowner to clear those kinds of intersections snow plows coming from both directions i'll hide on the curb so i don't know what the
 I know that I've got several phone calls on it and anyone that can give me some ideas or help on how to clear that and make it safe for the children. I certainly would appreciate that. Thank you, sir. Thank you Alderman Beach. Next we have Alderman Quinones.
 yes i also want to thank kyle sanders for doing a good job in the 11th ward and also the fire department for doing a good job on the fire on the fire on 10th avenue and 6th street uh helping those people out and getting them out safely job well done that's all i have your honor thank you alderman hamlin you would like to thank kyle kyle you're the best
 I got one call this weekend. By the time I called the guy back, the city had already come and taken care of his problem with the snow around his mailbox, which I thought was amazing. So really, really well done to Kyle and your team. And I, too, would like to thank the fire department. There was actually a fire at my father's warehouse, the old Quaker Oats building in Washington.
 They suffered a massive fire a year, a couple of years back. I don't know if anyone remembers. It was really, really bad. This one was very small. The fire department got it under control right away. There was barely any damage done. So from the bottom of my heart, thank you to the Rockford Fire Department. Thanks. Job well done. That's all. Thank you. Alderman McNeil. Thank you, Mayor. For the man of the hour, Kyle. Thank you.
 You've helped during this storm and other storms as well. I've called Cal for each storm. He was able to address the issues right away. I do have a problem, Mayor, with the parked cars. My cars over here are not getting ticketed. And I really do want the city to ticket the cars because the rest of the blocks, the parking
 are calling me and complaining that the blocks are not clean because of the parked cars. So I hope that we can get the police department over here even now after the snow. I talked with Kyle earlier today regarding this. The cars still need to be moved, and I hope that we can get the police over here giving out tickets for that. That's it. Thank you.
 Thank you. And a new section to city council. Anyone have any complaints of Kyle Saunders that you'd like to voice at this time? It would be a perfect time. We don't want him to, you know, get too big for us. I like that. I mean, he refused. Anyone else? All right.
 Kyle has a great team and he does a wonderful job. So with that, is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second? We have a motion, we have a second. Anyone want to discuss Kyle Saunders? Claire, could you please call the roll? Dirkies. Goodman. Aye. Kimber. Aye. Bass. Aye.
 Pile some more, but if we're not then my vote is aye. Okay, Irby? Aye. Irvin? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Alderman Hoffman? Alderman Rose? Alderman Beach? Aye. Alderman Quinonez? Alderman Hanley? Aye. Alderman McMilley? Aye.
 Everyone's calling. Hello?