William Martin from Providence Baptist Church with us this evening to provide an invocation and just a reminder Reverend there's a microphone right towards the let us pray definitely father we come to you to tell you thank you we thank you for this day in this way we pray God for every alderman we pray God for all city officials we pray God for our mayor and even our city and
 We pray, God, for peace, peace to surpass all understanding. We pray, God, that you'll move by your power, your spirit, and your might. And we'll be so careful to give you the praise and the honor and the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good to see you.
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee? Here. Gasparini? Tunberg? Frost? Here. Hervey? Here. Irvings? Here. Thompson-Culley? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Keonis? Here. Beck? Here. McNeely? Chiarelli? Here. 12 present. And Alderman Tunberg is present. 13 present. You're on.
 Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on January 21st, 2020? So moved. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. All right. Those opposed? Motion passes. We have one proclamation this evening. We have a proclamation. It helps if I turn it on.
 Okay, we have one proclamation this evening for National Burn Awareness Week, and we have Chief Bergson as well as Heidi Pena from OSF.
 Whereas burn injuries continue to be one of the leading causes of accidental death and injury in our nation, and whereas annually in the United States approximately 400,000 people receive medical care for treatment of burn injuries, and whereas the primary causes of injury include fire, flames, scalds, contact with hot objects, electrical and chemicals.
 Most of these injuries occur in one's home. And whereas the National Burn Awareness Week is an initiative of the American Burn Association, a coming together of burn, fire, and life safety educators to make the public aware of the frequency, devastation, and causes of burn injury, as well as a consistent and authoritative measures to prevent these injuries and how best to care for those that are injured.
 And whereas significant research and medical advances have dramatically improved burn care and treatment, aided rehabilitation, shortened hospital stays and increased burn survival rates. Aftercare support for the physical and emotional effects of the burns has also played a key role in the successful reintegration of burn survivors into our community. And whereas the theme of the 2020 National Burn Awareness Week is contact burns, hot surfaces, damaged skin.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim February 2nd through February 8th of 2020 to be National Burn Awareness Week. Would you like to share a few words?
 I would like to thank everyone in the city of Rockford, the EMS, Rockford Fire, all of our local fire departments for all that they do to help us with education. Because, of course, education is where it needs to start first. And hopefully by doing that, we can prevent a lot of the injuries that we see. Being one of only five burn centers in the state of Illinois, we do see a lot of burns in our unit. We have an amazing staff, amazing doctors, and we appreciate all the help.
 Sure. Just want to say on behalf of the Rockford Fire Department, we appreciate the partnership with OSF and all their staff. We do regular yearly educational briefings and PSAs working together with them. And glad that they're here today with us to promote. Most of our injuries are burns in the home. We want to make sure we get their awareness out. And if we do ever have any injuries, we transport directly to their hospital because they are set up to provide the best level of care for that. So thank you to St. Anthony's also.
 Next up, we have Petitions and Communications in the Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Rose. We got two items. Please refer the proposed 2020 funding agreement with Rockford Area Arts Council to Planning and Development Committee. And then also, please refer the proposed funding agreement with Keeping Northern Illinois Beautiful to Planning and Development Committee.
 The third one is a memorandum from Lafayette area Vaughan assistant city attorney regarding the renewal of the license agreement between Zion development corporation and the city of Rockford for the use of 908 8th Avenue as a strong house referred to planning and development. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Next, we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderman. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the approval of a resolution to intervene on the 2018 Property Tax Appeal case for Rock River Tower, located at 913 North Main Street.
 I have a memorandum from Martin Blum, the project manager for permits and special events regarding the upcoming special events, which will include St. Patrick's Day parade, Meltfest and Midsummer Festival. Number three is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, again, the assistant city attorney regarding the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford. And the board of library trustees of the city of Rockford for the cooperation on certain improvements for lot three of the Rockford Public Library plan unit development.
 And the final one is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the consideration of applications to modify existing liquor licenses to add one additional video gaming terminal. All of those will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Beck.
 thank you your honor i have a memorandum from kyle saunders director of public works regarding the city state agreement for u.s business 20 from meridian road to springfield avenue i have a memorandum from kyle saunders director of public works regarding a city state agreement for u.s business 20 uh east state street from buckley drive to shaw road
 and then i have a memorandum from latakia von assistant city attorney regarding the approval of an agreement to terminate financial assistance award for barbara coleman from the u.s department of commerce economic and development administration and refer these items to public work i'm sorry to finance and personnel thank you and alderman beck do you have a bid on a property oh yes i do
 Alderman Charlie we could help with the envelope a big one the big white envelope. Yeah It's fertile 728 6th Street Maria Hernandez well, yeah, I'm not sure it's for um to look like two properties 726 Street and 605 Union Avenue. So there's letter attached from Maria hand Hernandez and
 so i will refer that to um legal department i believe thank you thank you moving right along we'll move to public speakers just want to remind our public speakers that there's microphones on the back right and back left of the council chambers and that uh you'll hear uh an alarm go off at three minutes uh our first public speaker is prophet yusef good evening ladies and gentlemen in the book of isaiah the 58th chapter the 7th 10th verse
 It says,
 Recess is over with. School is in session. What I'm going to speak about tonight, African-American pilots who flew in Korea and Vietnam. I'm going to name 12 African-American pilots who flew in Korea and Vietnam. Colonel Fred Van Cherry flew 51 missions in Korea, 52 missions in Vietnam. Charles Edward McGee flew 100 missions in Korea, 172 missions in Vietnam. Daniel Chapman James flew 100 missions in Vietnam.
 in Korea, 78 missions in Vietnam. William Wild Bill Hickok flew 50 missions in Korea, 40 missions in Vietnam. James Reynolds flew 75 missions in Korea, 51 missions in Vietnam. Lord Figgins Newton, 269 missions in Vietnam. Guardian S. Buford flew 100 missions in Vietnam. Frederick D. Gregory flew 70 missions in Vietnam.
 Charles R. Bowler flew 100 missions in Vietnam. William A. Brown flew 100 missions in Korea, 125 missions in Vietnam. John L. Dr. Delft Whitehead flew 104 missions in Korea and 70 missions in Vietnam. George E. Hoddy flew 45 missions in Korea and 70 missions in Vietnam. And my brother who passed was a Tuskegee Airman in World War II, flew 102 missions. After
 people don't believe that lie. They say about our people, our people have fought and died for the United States of America. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. John Tantan, the thief does not come as if to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come to the
 that they may have life and that they may have it more abundantly. Acts 18 verses 10, I am with you and no one is going to be able to hurt you. You have no idea how many people that I have on my side in this city. Isaiah, don't be afraid for I am with you. Don't be discouraged for I am yours. Last week, we are going to the Underground Railroad and milk
 in Wisconsin and guess what? We had a meeting with Dr. Alex Burrington and started criticizing the school, started criticizing the board, and started criticizing the administration. We took it upon ourselves that we're gonna educate our youth. The school board, they met, they had a special meeting Thursday and guess what?
 Not only do they agree to like the idea of our kids getting credits for going to these field activities and the parents being involved, and so all the principals at all the schools we talk to, they are on board with it because we have a leg. We got the chair. And once again, I must remind everyone, one leg is the parent. The other leg is the student. The third leg is the school, the teachers. The fourth leg is us. Without us, the community, the church,
 teach one, reach one, their chair gonna always be wobbly. What I'm blown away by is the fact that we, they don't have to go to the board to okay it or to approve it, but we be having a school bus, which will be one of my biggest problems from getting to point A to point B, that we be able to have a school bus to transport our youth
 on these activities, on these educational activities. I want to thank the mayor, the arguments, the other sponsors that have been able to sponsor us to take the kids on the field trip. What concerns me is that a few parents I talk to between the age of 20 and 30 never heard or showed genuine truth.
 never heard of harriet tubman didn't even know what the underground railroad was i can't get upset because they don't know can't get mad at the school system because they didn't teach them that what we can do is start educating our youth and our young adults as to our history not only do we have uh
 African-Americans that want to go to this field trip. We even got whites. I have to remind everyone, every one of the underground houses with abolitionists were white. So we do have a lot of whites that have bad love for us and what have you. So once we start realizing that we are one race, it's the human race, we have different ethnic groups,
 And once we realize that it's only one race and we stop calling, you know, racism and we're going to start working together instead of criticizing one another. And so I'm one of the ones, instead of criticizing, I'm one of the ones to put in work. I look for other organizations to step up to the plate, teach one, reach one. And thank you. And I look for sponsors and support and some more funds. Thank you.
 Moving on we'll move to new committee reports and go to planning and development committee alderman rose We have one item with under new committee reports The committee recommends approval of the 2020 20 through 2024 five-year consolidated plan the 2020 annual action plan analysis of impediments to fair housing choice and neighborhood revitalization strategy area
 under the Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partners Program, and Emergency Solutions Grant Programs. Thank you. Alderman, you have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Irvins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Kionis? McNeely? No.
 Sure really 11 eyes 1 no urine. Thank you Adam moves forward next. We'll go to code and regulation committee alderman Shirely Thank your honor The committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking any time restriction on the west side of Sage Drive and Christy circle to 100 feet north of Christy circle and
 number two the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to repeal the no parking any time except paratransit restriction on the east side of woodlawn avenue from 75 feet south of ashland avenue to 90 feet
 95 feet south of Ashland Avenue. Number three, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a bus parking only. Restriction on the south side of Harney Court from 325 feet west of Hawthorn Avenue to 195 feet west of Hawthorn Avenue.
 Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a 20 mile an hour school speed limit restriction on Harney Court from Fairview Avenue to Hawthorne Avenue.
 Number five the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation for no action on the request to establish Traffic control at the intersection of pioneer Drive and Winthrop Avenue number six The committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for variation to reduce required
 Feet yard setback for a parking lot to 10 and a half feet along where Avenue B is a variation to reduce the required 20 feet frontage landscaping to 10 and a half feet wide along where Avenue C is a variation to reduce the required frontage landscaping units and shade trees.
 D, the variation to reduce the required shade trees from 31 to 14. And E is a variation to reduce the required interior landscaping in a C2 zoning district at 551, 501, and 455 Ware Avenue. They're all subject to conditions and amended findings of fact.
 Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of a special use permit to allow for an asphalt concrete batch plant in an I-2 general industrial zoning district at 349 Quaker Road subject to conditions.
 Number eight the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit for a plan unit development consisting of a community center site parking and landscaping plans with deviations from the regulations and an r1 single-family residential and an r2 to family residential zoning district at 615 and 625 Adams Street 1347 1357 and 13 X X rural Street subject to conditions and
 a number i think that's it that's it i placed those committee reports up for passage and i know we do have an amendment coming from alderman rose your honor item number seven would you separate separate eight alderman mcneely eight okay so uh why don't we go with uh one through seven first one through yeah we'll go with one through seven first and if uh
 well we wanted item eight separated correct correct yeah with the whole group i was thinking alderman rose um i just wanted to make an amendment under item uh seven uh to add um
 under item VB7, I move to amend as follows. As a condition of the special use permit, NTRAC shall provide all IEPA and federal EPA inspection reports to the City of Rockford within 15 days of the release of each report. Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on the amendment? Second.
 So we'll take a vote on just adding that amendment to number seven. No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Same sign. Okay. So item seven has been amended, and we'll take all items one through seven up right now. And we'll leave eight for a little bit later. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's make a comment about number four. It's been forever problems of speed in that area. And even though it's down to 20...
 Is there anything that would stop us from moving that down to 15 miles an hour? I will ask Director Saunders for this. Thank you, Mayor. I'd have to follow up with staff and just see exactly what the speed study results and a lot of the objective criteria they go through that establish that. So I'd be more than happy to follow up with you on that. I don't know what the – there's a methodology that goes into it with the 85th percentile and traffic volumes and all that, but I'd be more than happy to follow up with you.
 would you like that hold over i would like to do that to lay it over so we have a motion to lay it over is there a second second all right thank you sir no problem so item number four will be laid over trying to make this more confusing on me so we have items one through three we have items five six and seven and alderman hervey yes with regard to um item number six this i'm trying to figure out i understand that
 part of the reason for this is to provide some overflow parking for the temporary casino which makes a lot of sense but i guess my question goes to the hardship analysis does that have to come from the hardship is is related to the variations that they're requesting um so is the hardship to
 the facility that the parking lot is designed to help or is it to the requester because it didn't seem i know we've we've been pretty strong on that that to get to
 to some of these variances you know that's half the number of shade trees a lot of the interior landscaping especially if it's sort of a temporary parking lot that worries me to to reduce some of the landscaping to the extent that the applicant is requesting because it can kind of be like a standalone parking lot once it's done um and it's
 I can answer one of those questions Sure, I'll speak into the representative of Napleton after this lot is no longer in use for the temporary casino They were going to use it for their own business for overflow parking for their own business at Napleton Is that for staging cars or for overflow is what was told to me? I'll go over to mr. Cagnoli. I
 So I would point out that there's a revised site plan that has been attached to your electronic agenda. Our staff has been in communication with the applicant following the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting, and the revised site plan would expand the amount of landscaping on the site, both on the north boundary as well as the east boundary. So the original plan,
 variations that are published have been reduced so along Ware Avenue I believe the the site plan reflects that they're in full compliance of the 20 foot setback and on the east property line there's 10 foot setback and then additional 25 foot identified for additional landscaping in in drainage
 ultimately to answer your question related to the hardship you know that's a determination that's recommended by the zoning board of appeals on whether there's a findings of fact positive finding facts that there is a hardship but certainly at the discretion of city council to determine if that is in fact the case in this particular situation and it's generally based on the property okay
 i mean i wanted to be supportive of it it just that was one of the sort of holes that seemed to be there i was like well who is it a hardship too the other thing i get concerned about i don't know if it's much of a problem there but i think it's a mistake we made to some extent that whole thing about you know
 taking down paradise and putting in a parking lot they mentioned what looking at the drainage requirements and whether they needed to do something additional that concerns me as we move forward out there this is what 300 spaces 271 I think
 250 it's a big part and it's not just a small addition this thing is is huge and once again we take up a lot of permeable turf in these areas and up and down the street the more and more concrete i don't want to see us come into some more flood problems uh like we had with you know the charles street area and some others because
 We're paving over it so quickly. So I just hope we are watching that from a 30,000 foot view in Addition to the individual applicants. So that's all those were just my concerns Mr. Cagnoon
 thank you honor just in those regards the the property will have on-site detention so their engineer will you know design it in conformance with our storm water detention requirements but our engineering team will review it for conformance and any adjustments that's necessary i'm sorry i thought i read that they were looking at an existing detention system that covers the area if they're going to have their own then it shouldn't
 Shouldn't be a problem. Thank you Alderman frost. Thank you. I'm just curious. What was their hardship with respect to reducing the number of trees from the 31 to the 14? mr. Cagnone do you Recall their hardship alderman frost asked what their hardship would be from reducing the number of trees. I
 I believe they talked to the size and scale of the property and that it was originally planted under a previous ordinance and that it ultimately wouldn't accommodate the landscaping as required under the 2008 ordinance. Any other discussions? Just to make Alderman recall, we have items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7 up. Alderman Rosen, I'll come right back to you. Alderman Herbick.
 So I just wanted to comment. I had some concerns on the n-track plant and most of them were answered by city staff It's my understanding that n-track has a really good record of operation out at quaker road but whenever you have a New facility coming in especially an asphalt plant. I had a lot of questions from um,
 both constituents and people just throughout the city that were asking why is Rockford putting in an asphalt plant one of the reasons is to
 to further our jobs but also looking at how how we can expand in the construction industry here in rockford and i as an environmentalist i had a lot of concerns myself but most of them were met with the restrictions that the illinois epa puts forth on those kind of plants but that was also the reasoning behind the um the memorandum tonight the um
 Item where we move forward with the inspection reports from from them So I just wanted to kind of put that out there that we're trying to be proactive and getting those those reports and and watch over those kind of items, but it's not a reflection of and track and work that they're doing in our community and Just wanted to state that To say with regard to this proposal I spoke with alderman Rose over the weekend and we kind of I
 both in the same boat. I mean, we want to see development, jobs added, but at the same time concerned about environmental impact. But I started thinking about history. I mean, I have cousins who live in the areas adjacent to that around the Black Hawk Park area. And when we were kids, we weren't allowed to spend the night, sleepovers with the cousins because the rats were so dangerous.
 Every kid you talk to it seems like had been bitten or had had a story of a fight where they had to throw shoes And things at these rats it was it was pretty horrific. So this project takes what used to be a filthy Infested and neighborhood breaking Landfill and has turned it into a tax producing clean
 Usable industrial space. So, for that, I am absolutely grateful. 1 thing I will say with projects like this. 99% depends on the city's follow up. And maintenance of standards, you know, when we were talking about this last week and staff said, well, the EPA.
 licenses or permits them and you know they have strict requirements that may be true but i think the city has to monitor those too and i'm hoping that because we have the special use permit our staff is going to be a partner not a hindrance but a partner
 in the plant and watching and talking to the community and following up if people have problems. I may not be the alderman there by the time this gets done and be down the road, but as a community member
 I think it stays as good as we as we require it and I think in track is is geared in that direction, too So I'm happy to see the project But with alderman Rose, I think receiving the reports will allow us as a council and a city to monitor it annually or whenever I think the APA and Inspections are either every 12 or 24 depending. Thank you. I
 Other discussions on items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Keith. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. No, I'm 6, I didn't remember. Hervey. Irving. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Keonis. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. We have 12 on 1, 2, 3, and 5. 10 on number 6.
 and 11 on number seven thank you those items passed next uh we'll take up item number eight uh to which we held out alderman mcneely did you have any thoughts you wanted to provide yes thank you mr mayor this is an in my award but just curious because from the pictures i couldn't tell for the new location is it residential
 It is. It's residential. It's just off Rural Street, backs up into the Jackson Oaks Neighborhood Association, the third ward. So is it a house? No, it's a former church, I believe. No, Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, the last usage of it was a church, and then it was the, I think it was for the hearing blind. Yes, it was a blind center before the new one was. Before that. Okay.
 That was my question. Thank you. Thank you any other further discussions on item number eight seeing no discussion clerk Will you please call the roll? Excellent items pass and next we'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman back. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. First is the vouchers in the amount of $6,696,035.87. And the next is the approval of the roadway development agreement between the City of Rockford and Loves Travel Stops and Country Stores, Inc. for the property located at 4628 South Main Street and 3XX US 20 Bypass Highway. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place this item for passage.
 Thank you all them in back. So we have two items before you is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll? Frost Irving Irvin Hoffman Rose Beach Keona Beck. All right, McNeely I
 Thank you. We have nothing under legislative and lobbying in this portion. Next up, we have officers' reports.
 Two quick items from myself is one, just to get ahead of it, I'll email this out, but we have about five to eight different boards that will have some vacancies coming up probably mid of late summer. And so just kind of get your head thinking about different people that are in your wards that want to become active on different boards or commissions. And I'll make sure I get out those boards and commissions to you hopefully by the end of this week.
 Next up, tomorrow evening at 5.30 at Burpee Museum, we have a public safety forum that's taking a look at...
 What took place in 2019 and then looking ahead to 2020, we have Chief O'Shea, Chief Bergston, Jennifer Cacciapaglia, myself, and we have a moderator, Pastor Copeland, to moderate that. So although we'll be taking a look at 2019 and looking ahead, also residents will be able to ask questions to any of the panelists that are present.
 So next I would open out for officers reports alderman McNeely Thank You mr. Mayor. I want to thank you. Mr. Mayor for Returning contributions to anyone that had contributed to your campaign and also our owners in the casino and
 I think that I certainly appreciate you doing that. I believe that all politicians that have received any money from anyone that has ownership in the casino should do the same. It may not mean anything, but to the public, including myself, it shows that your heart is in the right place and that you want to...
 preclude any concerns about any underhand dealing going on between the casino and politicians. So I personally publicly want to thank you for doing that. Thank you. And just so we're clear, it was from January of before the session started on any return. Yep. Thank you.
 alderman thunberg thanks mayor i would like to extend a big thank you to director public works director kyle saunders and his cohort mitch leatherby they were really on a few issues that have come up in the third ward that had to deal with public works and my constituents are very grateful to their active participation in that so thank you sir great to hear
 alderman hervey thank you your honor um i mean i hope this isn't uh inappropriate but um i want to talk i love when you start with that just give it to us i wanted to to ask for uh a recognition of the the death of of kobe bryant um not because he was a great basketball player but because i think on a national stage um he prompted um
 several significant initiatives. The first was the, well, the Mamba Academy was more localized, but on a broader level, he encouraged the
 I guess you could call them community centers or sports training centers to all add an educational requirement or component. In other words, if you want to be a part of this center, and many of the kids are scholarshiped, it's the athletes, it's the investors who pay for it, not investors, the benefactors, I should call them,
 And he did a lot in that regard. And the thing that I said was appropriate, I wanted to ask for a moment of silence for him because of his stature in our nation, not just as a basketball, well, as a basketball player, but the good examples that he set in so many ways and the things he did for us, I think, as a country. Yeah, if aldermen are okay with that, we can certainly
 file that thank you alderman irving's um or alderman um one other thing i just wanted to mention was with um you sent a memo out and i wanted to thank you for that on recycling how much of recycling ends up back in the landfill and i had actually started to look at that lately my understanding is right now i guess china is no longer accepting some of our
 plastic products to remanufacture. So how much of ours is even getting recycled? Is it really, is there any longer recycling truly in the United States or are we picking up recycling and sending it to the landfill?
 We've had a number of discussions. I'm by far not the expert in this, Alderman Irvey, but I would say there now is a market, and I'm blanking on where that market is right now. China has certainly, if they were taking 100%, they've dropped to taking about 20% to 30% roundabout numbers and are far more stringent on what they're taking. Ours is going to...
 Ours is being recycled. I would say they are far more stringent on what it is. I mean,
 Simple things that I think a number of residents and not saying you specifically don't often think about enough is You think about your pizza boxes that have the grease and cheese on it. Those are often not getting Recycled you think about the glass containers that have jelly in it, etc If they're not cleaned out They're not getting recycled and just I would say all citizens need to be more mindful about cleaning out their
 containers that they use and making sure that the cleanest materials are going into the Recycling bin as possible to ensure that as much can be recycled is being recycled I was hoping Rock River might do a new Somebody's got it already. Okay a new Information sheet that basically says, you know, I still can't keep straight Do I recycle the bottle caps or just throw those away? It's just I
 no we can get you one of those uh we did a new one inside uh some of our city facilities we'll get it out and we'll uh have rock river double check it and make sure that we push out to everyone as well yeah we could get that out with water bills or or something that we don't do them by mail as much but get it out to the public somehow so certainly thank you alderman irvins did you have your hand raised
 I just wanted to say that our grand opening on the second was amazing. So honored to be a part of Soros Semily. We've gone under two remodels for two of the rooms in the church and out of the pockets of some of the ministers and some of the work, obviously, through my hands and some of the other ministers. And so Pastor is amazing.
 looking for donations if you guys would be interested in we only have 60 cheers and we got about 150 members um and so we have a fundraiser fund this cheer we actually have two fundraisers going on fund this year and also with the church being as old as it is we want to continue to rebrand the church and so uh
 If anyone would be interested in donating or providing an offering to the church in the hopes of the rebrand and continuing with the four momentum and making the difference in that area, we'll be more than happy to receive it. Pastor may have hit on something pretty smart. Get a carpenter as a member. It's probably a good thing to do. Alderman Hoffman and then Alderman Rosen.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to piggyback on Alderman Herney's comment. My family is from Mahone Bay, Nova Scotia, and they're taking it really seriously, recycling up there. And I have to tell you, they actually have a recycling educator. They have a four-page pamphlet that is given out to every household.
 and their educator actually drives on garbage day to see if they've done it correctly. And if not, the garbage is pulled back and placed up by the house, and then they get a hold of them to train them on the proper way of recycling. And it's getting done, but it's really interesting. I don't know if we could ever pull it off, but it's working up there. So just throwing that out.
 If you could ever get your hands on the four-page document, we'll have to take a look at it. Okay, thank you. Alderman Rose? Two quick items.
 A few months ago, I had the opportunity to attend an event at Thinker Ventures, which is downtown here, and they work real closely with the business world here in Rockford. And one of the groups that was there presenting was Women of Today's Manufacturing, and just wanted to talk a little bit. They have their annual scholarship dinner coming up February 27th at Francesco's, and they are an organization that –
 is consistently looking to give back to the community, but also looking at kind of women's issues within the business world and something that I feel is a good tool to really recruit young women to different manufacturing jobs. And obviously women don't always go to those kinds of jobs or flock to them because it's a male dominated industry.
 uh industry so um i just thought it would be something to kind of promote here the second one is uh a more personal one is the raise your spirits beer and wine tasting for the amanda reed memorial which is saturday march 7th from 5 to 9 p.m at forest hills country club and that one's more personal because
 We knew Amanda growing up and she was in a very toxic relationship and ended up losing her life due to a miscarriage or something like that.
 terrible situation that she was in as a domestic abuse victim so her parents her mom's specifically formulated this memorial and this organization to help advocate and it's one of those organizations that I'm just proud proud that we have in our community and I know they're working with the domestic abuse office so thank you other reports
 alderman trello yeah thank you i've been talking with director saunders and it's no surprise to him but over the weekend i've gotten more calls on this coyote issue going on in the city and one of the residents that called me said that she thought that the coyote had a small dog in the mouth and was running away with this pack of coyotes um turned out it was a rabbit
 because they found the carcass but this is starting to get a real problem in the 14th ward and i know some other areas so i know kyle's been working with me on this and we really need to at some point somebody or some animal is going to really be taken away by these coyotes and i really need to stress that we should really take a hard look at this because you know for an alderman to receive calls and weekend after weekend and emails
 about these coyotes dashing through yards and it by the time spring comes it could be a Dangerous situation when the kids are outside more So just wanted to bring that to the attention of the city And I know I didn't have a chance to call you today Kyle was very busy But it is a very important issue and I think it's we definitely need some hard look at for the city certainly, yeah, just a not a complete update but I
 Little bit of an update actually I know you took the initiative to meet with Mike Dunn jr over at region planning council region one planning council It was actually a discussion point at a meeting several months ago Full disclosure many of us had not dealt with the issue in our communities yet, and it just seems to be confusing
 Growing more pervasive and so they're looking at a way either through them or in conjunction with city staff to to
 Come up with an agreement so we can get a lower rate for residents and for municipalities Yeah, we had we had discussed that your honor and I think that's a great start to it I was talking to the resident where this was occurring and he did a little tracking of these coyotes and it was ending up in a large field right in the middle of the city and
 and he found a nest, he did call a trapper, or call it a nest or not, their habitat, and they were very aggressive towards this gentleman. So I think as quickly as we can do something, because I think as more and more people get courageous as the spring comes along,
 You know, we don't want people shooting inside the city at these animals But we need to take care to protect our citizens and their their animals too. So thank you. Thank you all the men do this is a follow-up the Coyotes are it's not under local ordinance State regulates coyotes were we're kind of at their disposal and and how they I mean even the trapper I think may get into some trouble with the state and
 but i think that's all state regulated with the dnr so maybe with r1 and done maybe he enlists the state and you know one of their dnr guys to come down
 Director Saunders have I been having about a preferred vendors apparently the only way once they trap them is to kill them They're not catching release somewhere their area if I'm correct director and So they're very expensive these trappers and the people that have been calling me it can't afford to get a trapper because You know how many times you're gonna trap the same animal for four hundred dollars, you know If they can't catch it and it's different in
 Coyotes come in different times. So they're saying that either people are feeding them or there's actually there some Powell thereafter They're a predator. They're going after whatever animals are out there to eat This gentleman tracked him to a field which was near a quarry So he believes they're living inside these quarries and the sides of the quarry so maybe we can talk to the quarry owners and
 To see if they've noticed any type of activity going on with these coyotes But I don't know if anyone else has gotten these calls, but I've seemed to be getting quite a few I do know the turkey population in my ward has gone down Because I do have for fact Because that's somehow maybe it's their natural predator, but we don't want it's not a you know not to make light of it but if that it really is thinning out and
 that means they're being aggressive and they're going after small animals. So, thank you. I do know, speaking with folks over by Rock Valley College, that they've been seen there as well. Alderman Herb. Just related to that, this whole issue of wild animals and wild animal management in urban areas. You know, I had the groundhogs that burrowed into my basement.
 hugely expensive because 120 year old house has dirt foundations and I mean he collapsed an entire retaining wall you know, I didn't know you had to pay that much for dirt, but to replace it is just hugely expensive and DNR basically said well, first of all, they made Winnebago County stop doing any wild animal management and
 Because if we trap the animals you have to get a permit ten dollars I think Winnebago County would come and pick them up for five or ten dollars and euthanize them These are the little things but they cause a lot of damage in our areas and
 And DNR basically said when I called them, well, what do we do since you won't let Winnebago County do it anymore? They just said, not our problem. We don't have enough money to take care of. We won't pick them up. So there's no one to do it. And with coyotes, you could trap them, but where are you going to take them and release them? We've taken over most of their habitat. And they don't want them in state parks.
 Okay. Well, we'll definitely jump on it right away. Director Saunders? Sorry, not to belabor the point, but I did just want to offer a little bit more information. So Alderman Shirelli and I had been talking for the past month or so, and I did reach out to IDNR. Jeff Horn is a great resource from IDNR. Gave me a list of nuisance wildlife control issues.
 licensed contractors that could actually trap these animals. I called several of these vendors. A lot of them were not interested in trapping coyotes. I did get to one individual that has been doing this for, he said, 50 years and it ended up being a three-hour conversation which was, you know, tremendously educational. But one of the challenges, to your point, Alderman Hervey, is trapping coyotes in an urban environment.
 they do mention that really the two ways to trap these coyotes would be a live trap which would be kind of your conventional trap where something would lure the coyote in the door would close behind them but with coyotes being you know very
 very easily spooked by kind of the smell of us. A lot of times live traps don't work. In all reality, the best trap to trap a coyote is a foot trap, and that's that bear trap that clamps on a leg. And when they catch them in an urban environment, obviously they are euthanizing them on site. They're not picking them up and disposing them somewhere else. And I know it's a really crude way of thinking about it, but
 This gentleman did mention that one of the biggest challenges in trapping coyotes in an urban environment is you're going to trap 10 dogs before you trap one coyote. And just the idea of trapping your domestic family animals is certainly a concern. So one of the things, and Alda Minciarelli mentioned it best, anybody that's feeding—
 wild animals whether it be raccoons squirrels whatever the case may be obviously that lures coyotes in and creates a problem so more than more than more than willing to help in any way that we can but there's certainly a challenge in front of us so thank you any other officers reports none we'll move on
 We'll go to motions and the appointment is laid over. This is Pastor Jeremiah Griffin for the Community Action Agency Board, which will be up after March 3rd. So we'll move to motions and resolutions, planning and development. Alderman Rose. We have one item under planning and development. It's the authorization to adopt the updated Winnebago County multi-hazard mitigation plan. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item?
 Seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll? turkey timber Ross Purvey Irvin Hoffman Rose Beach Keonis Beck McNeely Shirely 12 eyes your own excellent item passes next up. Oh, we don't have any code and regulations So we'll go to finance and personnel alderman back. Thank you your honor beginning with an ordinance
 I'm sorry, wrong page. An award of joint purchasing contract for one Ford police interceptor utility vehicle to Curry Motors fleet in the amount of $35,020. Next is award of joint purchasing contract for five Ford police responder hybrid sedans to Rush Ford Commercial Truck Center.
 through the Suburban Purchasing Cooperative in the amount of $18,853 each for a total cost of $94,265. Next is the award of joint purchasing contract for 24 police vehicles to Curry Motors fleet in the amount of $749,436 for Ford Transit vans, police interceptor utility vehicles and Ford Escapes through the Suburban Purchasing Cooperative.
 Next is the to reject an RFP for the property inspection services The proposal received was higher than estimated amounts budgeted for this service staff recommends rejecting the proposal received and soliciting new Proposals next to the award of RFP for collection services to Rockford mercantile agency for a contract amount of 18% of all of collections the contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extensions and
 Next is the resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for preliminary engineering services for 15th Avenue bridge replacement Over the Rock River and the amount of 1 million dollars Funding source is motor fuel tax funds next of the award of RFP for 15th Avenue bridge replacement to Crawford Murphy and Tilly for a contract amount of five hundred and eighty six thousand four hundred and ten dollars and seven cents the contract duration is twenty twenty to twenty twenty one and
 And the last one is the award of an engineering agreement for 9th Street reconstruction to Hanson Professional Services for a contract amount of $170,267. And I place these items over passage. Thank you. So we have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those eight items? Alderman Irvins. I just want to express my...
 my gratefulness for 9th Street. That's a long overdue. And so I'm really excited to see that take place. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Just a couple things. I'm glad Chief O'Shea is here. With regard to the police cars, and this was my fault for not reading the whole thing last week, the first one, it's $35,020, but it says with all the added things to it, it's going to be a little over $60,000.
 Then the cars were eighteen thousand eight hundred But that doesn't include any of the call the build out with all the other changes So how much this says you're gonna get five cars if the cost of that first one? I know it's for the dog, but it's thirty thousand. How much is the? build out for the responder cars
 chief so we're going out to rfp for the build out spec services that will come afterwards we don't have the finalized numbers yet for the build outs i guess my my point is you're not going to get five cars if if if the build out is anything close to half again the price so this is the cost for the car we know historically how much they are you know it's going to be 45 percent i voting on this
 It doesn't matter. I mean we have to have the cars But I didn't like the idea of we'll buy as many as we can if we know what it's gonna cost The total cost is gonna be director. Give me an estimate or something. I apologize. I'm my Spreadsheets opening up we budgeted for five vehicles for a total estimated Cost let me just get the right here a marked
 sedan or SUV the total amount we budget per vehicle is $44,000 and that is what was in the budget the 2020 budget that was approved by council
 so this is just the the acquisition of the actual vehicle itself as the chief mentioned the equipment and the outfitting installation of all that equipment comes as a separate contract it will all be rolled up together and paid for by lease funds but 44 000 reflects the total amount that we budget per vehicle for excuse me not just the purchase price but also the outfitting right but i guess what i'm saying is
 So at 18,000,
 I'm sorry call it 19, no less than 20. It's gonna cost you another 24 for each vehicle roughly Approximately. Yes, and that that depends there's there are 16 vehicles budgeted at 44,000 apiece. I think the Intent in that memo was that if the unit price ends up being higher than 44,000 the quantity will be adjusted to stay within the budget amounts that were approved by City Council and
 yeah i'm yeah i guess i was just saying this one says 94 2 which is i guess it's just not those are not the marked police sedan vehicles those are investigator cars those are these won't be outfitted
 In the same way? No. The unmarked are not outfitted. The expense to outfit an unmarked vehicle is less than a marked vehicle. You don't have the light bar on top. You don't have the decals. There's a difference in how those are outfitted. Those are budgeted at $32,000 per vehicle. The ones that we're purchasing here, the five? There are several contract awards on the agenda tonight. The unmarked vehicles are budgeted at $32,000 per vehicle.
 I'm done. Okay. Other man McNeely Money from the feds to pay part of the cost director Saunders
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. So this would be for the phase one and phase two engineering. So all the preliminary and design engineering for the bridge replacement, the construction engineering, so the lion's share of this $10 million replacement would be tied to leveraging Illinois Special Bridge Program funds. So those would be federal funds. All right, thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Sure.
 Alderman frost just had a question for chief O'Shea with respect to the to the five Ford police responder hybrid sedans, but those are ones that will be used on in an undercover capacity And I with respect to the fact that they're hybrid I mean will they be able to achieve adequate speeds for the detectives Okay, thank you any other discussion seen none We're gonna vote. We have eight items before you clerk. Please call the roll. Okay, I Tumber
 Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Keonis. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Spalding. Aye.
 one item and ordinance approving the 2020 and through 2024 five-year consolidated plan the 2020 action plan analysis of impediments to fair housing choice and neighborhood revitalization strategy area under the Community Development Block Grant home investment partnership program and emergency solutions grant program. Thank you So we have one item before you is there any discussion on that one item alderman Hervey? Yeah, just I know that the
 final statement on some of these is that once we pass the consolidated plan these things don't have to come back to city council for approval even though they don't have to come back i would like an update on
 housing progression to the entire council either that or we'll get the housing committee meeting again at least on a quarterly basis if not more and if we're going to implement anything that has a significant impact in a ward or in an area i think that should come to council for discussion or presentation regardless whether you have to
 Certainly, I'll let director Franzen Comment on a majority of that but for housing committee aldermen can call a housing committee every Monday if they'd like director Franzen. I
 Absolutely, and I'm more than happy to update council or housing committee as you wish on a regular basis. You're correct that the proposal here would not come back in front of council for official approval. We do anticipate that we will know what our 2020 allocation is from HUD by the end of February or maybe early March. And at that point, we'll be finalizing the budget with the programs and we'll certainly be sharing with you to share with your constituents.
 Any other discussion? So just one item before he is. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky? Aye. Tumber? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Irvin? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye. Beck? McNeely? Chiarelli? Aye.
 11 ayes 1 no your honor excellent. We'll move to code and regulation committee as those items pass alderman trellis. Thank your honor I have an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction On the west side of sage drive from christie circle to 150 feet to the north of christie circle Number two is an ordinance repealing the no parking anytime except paratransit restrictions on the east side of woodland and
 Woodlawn in Avenue from 75 feet south of Ashland Avenue to 90 feet 95 feet south of Ashland Avenue number three is an ordinance establishing about bus parking only restriction on the south side of Harney Court from 332 45 3245 feet west of Hawthorne Avenue to 195 feet west of Hawthorne Avenue and
 Number four is an ordinance establishing a 20 mile an hour school speed limit restriction on Harney court from Fairview Avenue to Hawthorne Avenue number five is an ordinance approving a variation to reduce the required 20 feet front
 Front yard setback for a parking lot to ten and a half feet along where Avenue B is a variation to reduce the required 20 feet Wide frontage landscaping to ten and a half feet wide along where Avenue number C is a variation to reduce the required frontage landscaping units and shade trees number D is a variation to reduce the required shade trees from 31 to 14 and
 E is a variation to reduce the required interior landscaping in a C2 zoning district at 551, 501, and 455 Ware Avenue. Number six is an ordinance approving a modification of a special use permit to allow for an asphalt concrete batch plant.
 at 3049 Quaker Road. Number seven is an ordinance approving a special use permit for a plan unit development consisting of a community center site parking, landscaping plans, and deviations from the regulations at 615 and 625 Adams Street and 1347, 1357, and 13XX Rural Street.
 place those ordinances up for passage your honor thank you and item four was laid over correct that's correct thank you so we have items one through three and five through seven before you is there any discussion on those items alderman tunberg thank you mayor i just i'd like to thank everyone again for their support on kenrock and it will be a welcome addition to the jackson oaks neighborhood so thank you all thank you seeing none clerk will you please call the roll
 Turkey Toomer frost Hervey Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach Keonis Beck McNeely Number seven and eleven Thank you, so those items passed next we'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman back I
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the roadway development agreement between the City of Rockford and Love's Travel Stops and Country Stores for the property located at 4628 Main Street and 3XX US 20 Bypass Highway. Place it up for passage. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Schubert? Aye. Frost? Aye. Irving? Aye. Irvins? Aye.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Keonis? Aye. McNeely? Surelli? 12 ayes. Jaren? Thank you. So that item passes. Next, we have one item under legislative and lobbying, and that'll go to Alderman Kevin Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. It's an ordinance approving the renewal of the professional services contract with McGuire Woods Consulting LLC for the amount of $10,000 per month for the 2020-2022
 uh lobbying services and i would suggest uh suspending rule 15. we have a motion to suspend rule 15 is there a second or i'm sorry uh thank you long day uh is there any discussion on the suspension of rule 15. seeing no discussion all those in uh favor of suspending rule 15 say aye those opposed same sign okay item will be suspended
 You're gonna place that up for passage. I'll place up for passage this time. You're okay Is there any discussion on the one item before us alderman toonberg? Thank you mayor. I know we get a email From from the McGuire woods consulting group, you know thinking of something like a cost-benefit analysis along those lines Is there any way we could get as at least as part of the committee? something that's giving us a view of
 What what this lobbyist is getting the city of Rockford? You know financially, you know, obviously we like to bring home the bacon if we can But again just kind of showing us the benefits offsetting the cost That would be great if we get something transparent in that case certainly We will certainly do that. I mean just looking at the last legislative session, obviously the big ones
 We're casino Increased the cost of the slot machines from I believe $25 to 250 250 in which that increased our revenue from about $11,000 annually to about a hundred and fourteen hundred and fifteen thousand and then Also help secure the 14 plus million for the airport, but we can definitely do that more regular basis. We should be doing that Thank you
 Any other discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Schubert? Aye. Frost? Aye. Irby? Aye. Irvin? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Ciarrelli? Aye.
 11 ayes, 1 no, Your Honor. Thank you. The item passes. Before I call on Alderman Chiarelli, I failed to mention to the alderman during officers' reports, just a reminder, tomorrow from 1130 to 1 o'clock over at Clem Arboretum, we'll be doing a strategic planning session for the fire department as we look forward to the direction. And we certainly want to make sure that we get as much input from aldermen as we possibly can.
 Again, that's 1130 to 1 tomorrow at Clem Arboretum. Oh, this pains me. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. It's my great honor to make a motion to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. I was hoping you didn't get a second. So we have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Tim Durk. Aye.
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Purvey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? McNeely? Jarelli? Jarelli. Aye. Aye. 12 ayes, Jarelli. All right. We're going to break for closed session. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.