that you would touch his heart. Lord, may the things that are decided here tonight be of good welfare to the people of Rockford. Lord, we just pray that you have your way in each and every thing that's going on. We also pray, Lord, tonight for our first responders that take care of us, watch over us. Take care of us during the day. But, Lord, I pray that you touch the Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Fire Department as they go about their daily task.
 These things we ask in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Amen. The flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Will the clerk call the roll call, please? Here. Here. Here. Here. Thank you. We have acceptance of the journal of the previous meetings. Thank you.
 All in favor say aye. Aye. Go ahead. Again, we've had a motion and a second. Clerk, do we need a roll call on that? All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? We, thank you. We have four public speakers tonight. I would like to remind them there are microphones on either side of the room and also that there is a strict three minute two year speech. The first person is Diana Walker.
 Good evening, Mayor Pro Tem Tina Newberg, Alderman, my fellow citizens, and all other persons in their respective positions. It is with a heavy laden heart that I receive the news of the sudden and unexpected homecoming of a great man, Ronald Toro Moore. I'm comforted by the knowledge that a good man whose steps are ordered by the Lord never dies. He makes a transition from this earthly realm, but his work and legacy remain in perpetuity.
 Ron was a phenomenal man, endearing to all who met, knew, and loved him. He was wise, helpful, humorous, generous, and gifted, but the most fitting testament is the life that he led as a man. Throughout his lifetime, he was found following in the steps of Christ, helping, encouraging others, and establishing an exemplary path for young men to follow. We are the beneficiaries.
 beneficiaries of his illuminating work as a public servant in the city of Rockford for over 25 years, board member of the Center for Sight and Hearing, board member of Tinker Swiss Cottage, member of Northern Illinois Minority Contractors, and vice president of Salsa Network.
 Ron is richly deserving of the admiration of his family, associates, friends, and coworkers. His passionate interest in life was to be viewed as an enhancement and a contributive member of his community, reflective of the values instilled by his family.
 I believe that Ron was one of those persons that the Apostle Paul defined as a man of measure when he wrote in 2 Timothy 4 and 7 of a person who fought the good fight, kept the faith, and finished the course. Surely he did. His spirit remains as an inspiration. I can best express what Ron meant to us with these words.
 Some people come into our lives and quickly go. Some people move our souls to dance. They awaken us to a new understanding with a passing whisper of their wisdom. Some people make the sky more beautiful to gaze upon. They stay in our lives for a while, leave footprints in our hearts, and we are never ever the same. Yes, we are all better for having Ron Moore in our lives. Thank you. Next speaker is John Brantley.
 All the women and the citizens of Rockford, Illinois. James chapter 2 verse 14 to 26 in the New King James Version. What does it proper, my brothers, if someone say he have faith but does not have work? Can faith save him? Does also faith by itself, if it does not have work, is dead? But someone would say you have faith and I have work. Show me your faith without faith.
 your work and I will show you my faith by my work you believe that there is one God you do well even the demons believe in tremor but do you want to know foolish man that faith without work is dead was not Abraham our father justified by work when he offered Isaac
 Back in February the 12th, overcrowding at the Winnebago County Jail Detention Center has grown more severe after arrest by the Rocky Police Department and the Winnebago County Sheriff's Department of Juvenile in connection with a spat of armed robberies, carjacking, auto theft. And in January and February, at the North Rock Drive Facility, they have accommodations for 48 juvenile detainees.
 in a regular quarter but 67 inmates were being housed this weekend because of the overflow of juveniles are sleeping in other parts of the building so where am i going with this we are looking at working with our youth and programs and events that will give them something to do during school after school and on the weekend we do not have any funding but what we do have is faith to
 that the work will be done. Here's one example of where we need funding. This is Black History Month and next week on Wednesday is a national holiday. Guess what? February 24th is my birthday. I would like to do something on my birthday. Nevertheless, what we are trying to do is take 30 people to Disney on Ice treasure trove. We are trying to get tickets to take 25 at-risk youth and five young adults.
 to BMO Bank Harrison Center to see Disney on Ice. They will bless us $12 per person. We are online with GoFundMe on our Facebook page, or you can write the check to renew Turnip Point program. These youth are from the Fairgrounds, Ellis Heights neighborhood, and the surrounding area. This event that we're trying to go to is on Saturday the 27th
 at 1 p.m. to show that we are trying to see. Plus, we are working with the YMCA and churches to see who will be able to give us a ride to the BMO Harrison Bank Center. Thank you for your time and confirmation. That's why we need to start today working on what's going on in our neighborhood. We are having a meeting in March at the Salvation Army on Kilmer Street at 4 p.m.,
 about bringing programs to the community that are going to help and work for the people that are living in the community with education, training and jobs. I was at the summit for the prison reentry meeting. There was around 90 leaders representing dozens of community
 and government agencies that was at the meeting. The meeting was hosted by Transform Rockwood at the regional center. Some of the things that they was talking about, that is what our group is already trying to work on those problems. So I saw a room full of working class people that are working in the system that's working at the state. Mr. Grantley, you have three minutes. Okay. We need to work together. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prof. Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Philippians, the fourth chapter, 13th verse, it says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthened me. What I want to speak about tonight, the lies they say, that they don't have any African Americans who have talents in Rockford. That's a lie.
 I'm going to name 44 African Americans who are very talented tonight. Number one, Mrs. George Davis, human resource. Number two, all the women, Vanita Herbie. Number three, all the women, Ann Thompson. Number four, all the women, Linda McNeely. Number five, State Representative Chuck Jefferson. Number six, State Representative Letitia Wallace. Number seven, School Board Representative Lisa Jackson. Number eight, John Bradley, community activist. Number nine, Lieutenant Joe Givens, Rockford Police Department. Also a retired veteran of the United States Air Force,
 Number 10, Lieutenant Collar Red, Rockford Police Department. Number 11, Mr. Sheedle, who works in the city of Rockford Legal Department. Number 12, Mr. Kenan Davis, recruiter for the Rockford Police Department, veteran of the United States Navy. Number 13, Mr. Yardboy, decorated World War II veteran. Number 14, Judge Yardboy. Number 15, Mr. Thomas Jarrett, decorated World War II veteran. Number 16, Mr. Marshall Stocks.
 NFL player. Number 17, Judge Gulley. Number 18, Judge High Ross. Number 19, Mr. Mike Williams, head of Rock River Train. Number 20, Mr. Fred Williams, senior, first African-American Tuskegee Airmen to fly over the Atlantic. Number 21, Fred Williams, Jr., weatherman. Number 22,
 2. Mr. Charles Tripton, Motivation Street. Number 23, Apostle Melvin Brown, a community activist. Number 24, his wife, Prophetess Sheila Brown, a community activist. Number 25, Brother Yakoda, minister, community activist, Nation of Islam. Number 26, Brother Henry, minister, community activist, Nation of Islam. Number 27, Brother William, Mohammed, minister, community activist, Nation of Islam. Number 28, Brother Brian, minister, teacher, Nation of Islam. Number 29, Mr. K.
 Miss Chris Reed, schoolteacher. Number 30, Jeremiah Community Actress. Number 31, Dorothy Hill, owner of Downtown Shoes. Number 32, Miss Ford, cousin of Poetry Queen. Number 33, Miss Irma Mayfree, the best person I know who could cook fried chicken.
 Number 34, her daughter Kim Mayfrey, best cook I ever seen. Number 35, Mr. Theodore Glover, Forest Park Police Chief. Number 36, Ms. Flossie Hoare, Minister of Community Act. Number 37, Ms. Diane, writer of Community Act. Number 38, Mr. Garland Brown,
 Decorated Vietnam veteran. Number 39, Mr. Curly Tom, decorated Vietnam veteran, tailed symbol. Number 40, Ms. Glendee Jarrett, community tech. Number 41, L.C. Wilson, veteran of the Naval Service County Board Member. Number 42, Ms. Laina C. McCance, veteran of the Naval Service Legal Assistance, Veterans Assistance Commission.
 Number 43, Mr. Mayo Rainey, teacher and educated community activist. Number 44, I saved the best for last. Me, proper youth. I'm a retired, decorated Vietnam veteran. I get 19 years, 11 months, 29 days, 1 hour, 10 minutes, 15 seconds. I get three tours in Vietnam. I'm a proud Riverrat. I'm a retired teacher and truck driver. I'm a gentleman of the highway, a knight of the road, Mayor Morrissey. You got all of this talent in Rockford. What are you going to do with it? And I'm, oh, he's not here tonight. Alderman Durkee.
 I've been wanting to tell him this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. Thank you. Thank you. Our last speaker is Toby Haldeman. Hard act to follow. Just when you think you've seen it all, spend a little time on Broadway. Last Thursday, I just happened to look out my window
 and I witnessed a woman backing down the road and into her driveway. Unbeknownst to her, her two-year-old child followed her out to the road. I still can't believe what I saw. She ran over her own child. What was even more incredible was that after she parked her vehicle, I saw the child get to his feet. I can't describe the feeling that went through me. I was elated, shocked, dismayed, and bewildered.
 by what I had just witnessed. You know, it's very hard to describe what a miracle looks like. After the mother parked her vehicle, she saw her child standing in the road, getting to his feet. She ran towards him, arms outstretched. She brushed him off, picked him up, and put him and another child into the vehicle and drove away. I have no idea if she went to the hospital. The police showed up shortly after. They said that they would have to follow up with the woman later as she wasn't home.
 To my knowledge, I do not believe that the child was run over by a tire. If he had been, I don't think he would have gotten to his feet. Have you been to the Nicholas Conservatory to see the orchid display? It's well worth the admission price. Definitely one of Rockford's jewels.
 The Zika virus has been around for thousands of years, yet the World Health Organization would have you believe that it is responsible for the small heads and newborns in South America. What a bunch of malarkey. The real culprit is the out-of-control use of pesticides in South America. Most have been banned in developed countries, including the U.S. The Rockefeller Foundation actually owns a patent on the Zika virus since 1947.
 Perhaps they need even more money to try to develop a vaccine for disease that does nothing. Meanwhile, Rockford continues to dump the poison fluoride into our water. To all of the voters in the United States of America, remember this. The power does not lie with the slick suits in government. It lies with you.
 The power of government lies with the people, and nothing should stand in the way of liberty. Not people, not position, and not money. Liberty first. Stop the violence, end the silence. Report crime, and help take back Rockford. Thank you. Next we'll have petitions and communications. Codes and regs. Thank you, Senator.
 Tonight, one is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on February 17, 2016 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regulations Committee meeting on February 22, 2016.
 I have the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on February 17, 2016 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regulations Committee meeting on February 22, 2016. The third is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager regarding the upcoming special events which will include the Miracle Mile Rockford Cruise Night, the Irish Marching Society, St. Patrick's Day Parade and Red Shoe Run.
 The fourth item is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the annexation of 79XX, 82XX East Riverside Boulevard, 8055, 8460, 84XX, 88XX, and 8510 Springbrook Road, Rockford Memorial Hospital.
 Fifth item is the Traffic Commission Minutes for the meeting to be held February 10th, 2016. The sixth item is a memorandum from Mark Rose, Land Acquisition Officer, regarding the opinion of value, Alley Vacation, north side of 1112 Irving Avenue. All those items will be referred to the Codes and Regulations Committee, Your Honor. Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. From Patrick Hayes, Legal Director regarding
 matter of 2016 agreement for professional services for attorney ron shultz and i would like to refer that to the finance and personnel committee alderman kelly chad i'd like to share with the alderman there's a legislative and lobbying meeting that's going to be scheduled march fourteenth in council chambers and i encourage anyone that would like something on the agenda to contact our lobbyist
 so it can be placed on the agenda because we want to make sure that we're making good use of our lobbyist time. So if any of you have anything to place on the agenda for March 14th, please let my capacity or myself know. Thank you. Next we have proclamations. This is for the Rockford Mass Transit District. Anyone here please step forward. Executive Director for .
 Whereas public transportation has been part of our community since the first electric streetcars were introduced in 1889, although the necessity for a public transportation system, as we know today, did not come into existence until 1971. And whereas on February 15, 1971, under the authority of a state statute known as the Mass Transit District Act,
 Rockford City Council approved an ordinance officially establishing the Rockford Mass Transit District. And whereas Rockford Mass Transit has continued to meet the demand of our growing city by expanding service to the extent that over 1.7 million riders annually see Rockford Mass Transit as their lifeline to a quality of life,
 and whereas Rockford Mass Transit has dedicated itself to providing safe, efficient, affordable, dependable, and accessible transportation for the residents of Rockford and the surrounding area for the last 45 years, now therefore I, Tina Newberg Pro Tem,
 for Larry Morrissey as mayor of the city of Rockford to hereby proclaim February 15, 1961 to be Rockford Mass Transit District 45th Anniversary Day in Rockford, Illinois, and urge all citizens to celebrate this anniversary by taking a ride with Rockford Mass Transit at least once throughout this coming year. Congratulations. Thank you. Congratulations. Say something. Yes, sir.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. We appreciate that nice, rewarding proclamation. It's been 45 years since Mayor Schleicher, I believe it was, decided that public transportation is important to a city the size of Rockford. And I think every mayor so far that I've worked with have followed suit and agree to that. Even though we have a small portion of...
 residents that possibly use public transit, it is a necessary means. It keeps people off the street that shouldn't be driving. It gets people that maybe have had a few too many drinks onto the bus, hopefully, and not driving illegally. So we feel that it still is a vital portion of the services that you provide. Just for the heck of it, I gave you guys a history of
 mass transit in in Rockford. It's been around 135 years in Rockford. The district was created, as Mayor Pro Tem said, in 1971, 45 years ago. I've been the director 25 years.
 I was actually employed by Rockford in 1975, so about three years after it became a district. Somebody was very smart. I'm not sure who it was at this point, but somebody was smart and knows what they're talking about. But anyway, I want to thank you guys for the proclamation. I want to thank you again for the support.
 And, you know, I look forward to meeting every one of you. I know I've had the opportunity and the pleasure of meeting many of you. Some of you I still have not. And my goal is to get in touch with everybody and sit down and discuss Rockford Ranch Transit at your convenience. So anytime you have the time, let us know. We won't bother you. Thank you again. Thank you. New Committee Reports, Planning and Development.
 Since the chairman and the co-chair are not here, I move to lay this item over for two weeks. Second. It's been motioned and seconded to lay over. Roll call? By rule. Thank you. Thank you. Codes and rights. Thank you, Your Honor.
 The first item is a committee report sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board for the sale of packaged liquor and the sale of tobacco products at 453 North Springfield Avenue. The second item is the committee recommends approval of a mutual aid agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District to provide mutual aid and assistance to one another during the times of disaster in public works for wastewater emergencies. The legal director shall prepare the report.
 the appropriate ordinance. I move to suspend the rules, Your Honor, on both those items. Second. Is there a second? Second. It's been motioned and seconded to suspend the rules. All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? It's been approved. Thank you. I place those two items under passage, Your Honor. Any discussion? Alderman Hervey. I have a question. I'd like to know the ordinance for the war for NIS, whether it involves liquor and bad things.
 Thank you, Alderman Kirby. Madam Chair. Thank you, Alderman Kirby. I had spoke on this, I believe, at the last meeting, and I am in approval. Thank you. Alderman Kelly-Campson. I have one question.
 We recommend approval of the aid between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District to provide aid and assistance, another during a time of disaster. I guess my question is, why not all the taxing bodies? Is this just an agreement between the Rockford Park District and the City? CHAIRMAN BRYANT ROWE. Mr. Ventnor, could you address that, please?
 I wasn't here. I wasn't. I don't know. Alderman Beach. I think what I understood the conversation was last week is that we already have the delayed with everyone else except the Park District. And so we were just bringing that online as a recommendation from the Institute out in Baltimore.
 If I may interject, that was also my understanding from last week's meeting, that it was an omission and this is to correct that. Any other discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? No, I'm for. I'm in favor of two. I'd like to abstain on item two. I vote aye on one. Let's do a roll call. Aye. No, I'm in favor of two. Aye on one. I abstain on two. Aye. Aye. Both pass. Okay.
 Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have the approval of the vouchers in the amount of $5,494,367.45. I have the approval of the fine reduction request at 827 Blake Street. I have the approval of memorandum of agreement with Rockford Police and the Center for Nonviolence and Conflict Transformation. I have the approval of the Intergovernmental Agreement. The City of Rockford, Winnebago County, and Ogle County
 and Rockford Bank and Trust for the guarantee of a $1.5 million line of credit to fund district operations for Rockford Mass Transit. And I have the approval of the 2016 to 2020 capital improvement program. I place or ask for suspension of rules on these items. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Separate five. Separate five.
 So then I'm moving for suspension of rules on items one through four. Second. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. All those opposed? Passes. I place those four items up for passage. Any discussion? I have a question, thank you. On number two, it says estimated at $4,500 per trailer. I understand we have two trailers, but at this point we're only using one, correct?
 That's item number three. I'm sorry, on number three. Chief Pan? That's correct. Right now we are only planning on piloting one trailer at this time. But you're asking for $4,500 per trailer.
 So that means we, in reserve, you would already have approval of 4500 for the second trailer? Assuming that, yeah, so our goal would be to eventually put both of those trailers to use. However, we're starting with the initial trailer, partnering with the Center for Nonviolence in the Learning Lab concept.
 Assuming that that concept would take off, we would then transition the second trailer that's currently just sitting there for, has been sitting there for years, and then transition that into a subsequent learning lab that either we could just keep on the department, use it with community services, or add it to the partnership with the Center for Nonviolence. That's kind of what our thoughts were. But you're asking, thank you, never mind.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you. The cost, the $4,500, Madam Chair, per trailer and the $6,200 per trailer, is that the city cost and the Center for Nonviolence would be sharing the same amount? The Center for Nonviolence, according to our agreement, would take care of
 stocking and finishing the inside of the trailer, kind of molding it into kind of more of a classroom setting. We, the Rockford police, would then be responsible for outfitting the exterior of it. Right now, it's very plain. We would, everyone should have received a kind of a concept drawing of what it would look like. And so we would then pay the cost for that. Thank you, and
 I'm sorry, Mayor Pro Tem. I said, Mayor Pro Tem. The two trailers, are these trailers that were here at the time that we hosted individuals from New Orleans, the FEMA trailers, or where are these FEMA trailers coming from? Are there more trailers within the city? No, we currently, the police department currently has two trailers.
 And we received those trailers from FEMA because FEMA had ordered an excess of trailers after Hurricane Katrina, just like many other
 Things that kind of went out after hurricane Katrina that was in excess. So we've been sitting on these trailers for quite some time We originally had him striped and we had him out at a couple different events, especially when we had a waterfront We would position a trailer out somewhere And they've really been sitting in the back of city yards For four years now we had him covered and we're just kind of debating and trying to figure out what we're gonna use these trailers for and our
 Sitting down with Sam from the Center of Nonviolence, we came up with the idea of putting those to good use. Being able to, instead of trying to transport people around from place to place, we would just bring the education, the activities, the learning to everyone. And again, our goal is to get this outfitted with some, with really, and again, this is
 put in a packet with really some great ideas as far as employment opportunities for individuals and we would again be focusing on Rockford housing developments particularly and really bringing the educational resources to them we have a lot of really good ideas as far as turning it into
 My next kind of step is partnering with the library and see if the library will help us apply books in there so we can again draw, pull into one of these areas, sit down. We can have community services officers, volunteers help read with children during the summertime. That's kind of really the goal. I mean, really, the sky is the limit on what we can do with the trailers. So then, Mayor Carlton, did we pay for these trailers? No. All right. Thank you very much.
 Alderman Kelly. Quick question. Is this cost, was it included in your 2016 budget? It's coming out of Aspen forfeiture. Okay, thank you. Discussion? Okay, we'll call for a roll call on Roman numeral 3C123 and 4. Aye. Aye. Passes. Now we'll consider Roman numeral 3C5.
 the capital improvement program discussion. I'm sorry, it's been moved, is there a second? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Is there, let's take a, all those in favor say aye. Opposed? No. Roll call. No, it's. Legal director, so it cannot be considered tonight, would that be accurate? I just reading it in, then we're gonna take it up at next council meeting.
 We're talking that Chase the motion to suspend having not been Gained the majority matter lays over by rule to the next City Council meeting for action by the City Council the motion was to suspend the rule not on the item That's so that's for my list officers reports
 I would like to make a comment concerning our recent snow and our public works department that did an awesome job. I have to tell you that the one thing you didn't do, you didn't take it down to the cement and to the asphalt. I got four or five calls of people that were upset that they still had snow on their roads.
 I did explain to them that we live in the Midwest and sometimes when it snows, we don't see our streets. The streets weren't slippery, they were cleared, so you have my compliments and please pass that along to your workers, please. Alderman McNamara. Thank you.
 Mayor Pro Tem, I just wanted to ask staff if there's anything that us as aldermen can be doing as we get closer and closer to the March 15th election day to help support the 1% sales tax for our capital improvement plan. I haven't heard a whole lot about it and want to know how I can be of assistance in that campaign. Good point, Alderman Pittenger.
 Alderman, sorry about that. Mr. Ryan. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Yes, what we can provide the alderman is a kind of timeline and similar to years past when you're having neighborhood meetings within your wards. I know that we're working up material on the success of the past years and what we're proposing for this year's CIP.
 Can I follow? Thank you. Yes. My only concern is, I mean, this week, for me personally, I probably have eight or nine pretty real active neighborhoods I meet with every month. This week's the last week, and then they won't meet until either the night of election and that week again. Okay.
 can we get something as soon like as soon as possible i'm just really concerned with such a big vote coming up i know it will have that other opportunity in november but i think it was wise the choice that you guys made to make it for march to give a two chances and the folks who are going to vote in the primaries are probably the folks who will understand the issue the best um but
 I feel like we're kind of waiting to the last minute on such an important item that's really critical as we look forward. I'm not telling you anything you don't know. I know you certainly understand that. But I guess I'm just getting really nervous that we haven't heard much of anything. And I'd love to help in any way, join the campaign, join a committee to get it moving. Alderman Hervey.
 In all honesty, I forgot it was on the ballot. I have not. I usually look at the ballot once they print it and all the names are on it. I've heard or seen absolutely nothing about the 1% sales tax. I know it came to us and it was going to be on there, then absolutely nothing. I wonder how many people actually know. I mean, is there even a committee that's pushing it? Is anybody doing anything? Haven't seen it in the paper.
 I haven't seen a sign. There is a citizen committee. As well, there's been a, I know Alderman Shirely had attended one of those meetings. Their public works department right now is working on public information related to the referendum. One of the things that's important is getting the CIP approved so that we can articulate the projects that are going to be within the 2016 budget. Well understood, but one of the things I think that people look for is what we did
 Retrospectively. So... Right, and I know that Director Vintner is working on those educational materials. Yeah, my ward meeting is the 25th of February, and it's the last Thursday of each month. I'm just saying, I think to hit a lot of the ward meetings, if it's not out in the next week or so, way behind the eight ball. Mr. Vintner? I have a PowerPoint presentation that we just finished up today.
 With the history of the sales tax expenditures by category and the dollar amounts, and how the bond issue is being retired, I'd be happy to send that to everybody tomorrow morning for your review and discussion. And then, of course, as Mr. Ryan said, there is a committee that advocates for this. We supply the information for those folks as the advocates. Okay. Alderman Newberg.
 I don't even think we as a council are aware of who's on the committee. That I would expect, I would really hope something would be out the first of the week. And I don't see where passage of the CIP would be.
 should be an influence on that. We have got to show what we have done with the 1% and what is anticipated to be done with the 1%. And that doesn't call for passage of the CIP. If there is some type of a list, Mr. Vintner, that you have that would
 would help us in that aspect. My people mainly ask for what have you done with the 1% so far? They're not as concerned of what we're going to do in the future as to show that we've had success in getting things done with the past 1%.
 Yes, thank you, Madam Chairman. The PowerPoint presentation has kind of the past, plus the books are in the archive that have gone through council with all the projects in them, and then we kind of do some highlights. On November 30th, I gave a presentation in our strategic session about that, that I built upon and that's what I'll send you in the morning.
 But just from what I've been told, and Mr. Ryan can tell me this, I can't be an advocate or a part of those committees. All I can do is supply information. So that's all I'm doing is preparing this for the... Microphone, please, Vintner. Not working? No. Alderman Thompson, Kelly. I'm a bit confused because when we spoke of this last year,
 early part or end of 2015 we had decided that as a council that we would have an organization to lead and that the alderman would support it throughout and I haven't heard of any meetings taking place for us to do that
 I'm really kind of shocked that we haven't moved forward on something that is that is so crucial to Things this entire study. So where do we go from here? Alderman Hervey Mr. Ryan the the committee is no different than the last committee that we had five years ago. It's the same same name I
 Is my mic on? In terms of who's represented on that committee, I know that the mayor has been meeting with those individuals, so I'll have to get you a list. Follow up? Yeah, just a follow up. The communication to and with council, I'm sorry. I thought for a while now that it was at an all-time low. This kind of takes the cake. I don't want to get, there is just,
 ridiculously pathetic communication with city council about what's going on in the upper reaches of the administration of the city. I certainly feel left out, horrifically left out. Maybe I should do a better job as an alderman of keeping up with what's actually on that ballot, but it had been so long since anybody said anything about it. It was literally off my radar.
 And if this is the 1% sales tax, is this important to funding the CIP, to keeping up our road work? Again, I don't think I've seen a single ad in the newspaper. There used to be signs in the yards. If there was an intent not to have it pass or even do anything serious until November, then it shouldn't have been on the ballot now. And as for the CIP had to get passed first,
 Before we did it, I don't remember if we were talking about the CIP, anybody saying, you know what, if we don't get the CIP done, Alderman, it's going to hold up our being able to communicate and discuss the road tax. Alderman Beach? I think that whoever makes the decision to get something in the newspaper, an ad of some kind, a very substantial ad, needs to do that immediately.
 to thank the people of Rockford for being a part of this 1% tax to save the thousands of dollars of interest that they have in the projects that have been in the past. It's got to be out like so. Um, somebody help me. I haven't seen anything either. Has there been any anything recently?
 Mr. Ryan? I want to be clear. There has not been a series of meetings. The mayor's been working to assemble some citizens that both have worked on in the past and new individuals to help promote it. I'm certain that as we go forward, and you're right in terms of the time, now is the time to ramp this up.
 Typically in the past, a campaign doesn't ramp up until the last 30 to 45 days. That's how it's been in the past. With respect to the CIP, every time we've gone to a referendum, we've had the major roads highlighted in that CIP, the major projects. So it doesn't necessarily have to be approved, but I highly recommend that if we're going to put what's prospective in the future for the CIP, that we have 2016 nailed down. It's just better to mark it that way.
 Alderman Beach you can reconsider that vote this evening Mr. Vintner, you know I Alderman McNamara asked a couple of questions of me and I said that you know, I'd be happy to speak with him I don't want anybody to feel that we need to force anything on you about voting for this and
 I'm sure we could get this done before the primary election. I think Alderman McNamara just wanted to work through a couple of things. I just, I have met with other aldermen regarding issues that they had and questions with the CIP and we were able to work through some of those
 I think due to schedules and things like that, he's just asking for another week or so and then I think it will be resolved. I'm not seeing, Tom has not, or Alderman McNamara, sorry, has not brought anything insurmountable to me to have a discussion with, and certainly other aldermen we can meet to refine it as well in the next week or so. You know, I want you to feel comfortable with it. That's the whole point. I mean, it's not the 1% thing. We have information for that, you know,
 The cover of the CIP book has the 1% sales tax sign on it, and when we started talking about the CIP that was being promoted that way, that we would be voting in the CIP sales tax referendum would be coming up in conjunction with the 2016 CIP. That's why on the cover of the CIP it has the sales tax, just to bring it to light. Alderman McNamara.
 Two questions. One is, is the committee called Citizens for Rebuilding Rockford? I believe that's the campaign name, yes. Second is, I do not believe that having the capital improvement plan for 2016 through 2020 has significant weight in such a campaign. I think more significantly is the lack of funds that are available to that campaign, the lack of
 coalition building that has not happened, at least to us. Right now we have less money in that campaign than you need to run an automatic campaign, let alone a city-wide initiative of this importance. There's less than $1100 in that campaign based on the Illinois Sunshine Report.
 I did ask for it to be laid over. It was, I believe, first brought to committee last week. And just to clarify that, it was first brought, my understanding was last week, to finance. I voted to approve it just to get it to council floor because actually staff was going to be absent at other meetings.
 I actually plan to lay it over, as many aldermen know, at that meeting or to have significant dialogue at that meeting. I'm ready to have that dialogue at any time because there are significant issues to me, such as having the Amtrak station in that capital improvement plan for $248,000 for 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020. Also, if you look at it, the neighborhood program is cut in 2020
 What is it? 2018, 2019, and 2020, from $5.7 million down to $5 million. So I have issues with it, and that's why I'm asking to lay it over, so that you know. But for the campaign, again, I am happy to volunteer. I enjoy working on campaigns. I'm okay at it.
 would be more than happy to help fundraise because I think the yard signs and things, and you do wait for 30 or 45 days out to do a significant amount of work, but we have to have the money to do it. And the coalition bill, and I could be just off because I haven't been involved in it, but I'll just leave it as I'd love to be part of it. All in the time, St. Kelly.
 I definitely agree with Alderman McNamara. In fact, several months ago, I had this conversation with Matt in regards to the CIP. Also, how many times does this council have to vote down something for something to keep coming at us? This council voted down the Woodman Street Exchange, but yet it's still in the CIP.
 Those are some of the things that if we're going to do a campaign to continue the 1% sales tax, what type of impression are we giving this community that we're sitting here discussing our 2016-2020? See.
 CIP and it doesn't look like what the alderman said they wanted it to look like. How do you expect for the citizens of this community to continue to trust in what we're doing? How many times do we have to vote down something for this administration to keep bringing it to us? Those are the things that I have issues with in the CIP and our wards, if any alderman has paid attention, we will be getting less money in 2018.
 Those are the things that want discussion. Those are the things that we should have made aware of and not to have to find it in the CIP. Thank you. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I certainly appreciate the concerns that are being expressed regarding the CIP, but I'm kind of baffled why this doesn't come up under discussion at a committee meeting when the CIP is up for consideration. Yes.
 It was up for consideration last week, got voted out and that was it. There was no discussion, no questions, no suggestions for amendments, no expressed concerns about anything they wanted to change.
 That's the time to make changes to a CIP, not when it hits the council floor. So I think we probably should send it back to committee because obviously there's quite a bit of concern by Audubon about what's in the CIP, and that's certainly legitimate. I mean, I welcome that. But I think it's unfair to Mr. Vintner, and I think it's unfair to the committee process to not bring up your concerns when it's up for debate.
 and then beat it up when it gets to the council floor. So I welcome that and I know Mr. Vittner would welcome input and feedback about the CIP
 But, you know, let's give them a chance to address our concerns. And if it's a concern of one alderman but the other alderman vote the other way, then that's the way it is. I mean, it's, you know, it's not like just because we each have a concern about the CIP that we're going to get our way. But I want to hear what those are and let's have some good debate and discussion and try to come to some consensus on what we think a good five-year CIP looks like. Thanks. Alderman Otto? Alderman Townsend? Kelly?
 for allowing me to speak twice on the matter um i think it's been months uh since i had a conversation in regards to my concern with um with matt in regards to the very things that i mentioned here tonight i think it's been over a year when this council voted down what was great exchange
 So it's not a last-minute thing. I would appreciate if staff would have come and tried to work out the difference in what is taking place in the CIP. It is not that Alderman have not expressed their concerns. I am not a part of Finance and Personnel Committee. I can't say why it was passed and why it wasn't passed. But I do know, though, everything that I have said here this evening, I have told to Mr. Vitner months ago, months ago.
 Discussion? I'm sorry. Yes, we are. I have to add also, I have concerns. I think Mr. Vintner and his predecessor have been very available whenever I've had a question, but I do, the two main things as Alderman Thompson Kelly brought up, Whitman Street and the railroad station, that's two minor
 to other people, but they're not minor to myself. So I'm hoping we can have more discussion at committee next week. Mr. Vintner, if you can get the information, and Mr. Ryan. The one thing also I took exception to, Mr. Ryan, is the committee was set up five years ago. I wasn't an alderman five years ago, so I'd like to know who's on the committee.
 And I think at our last election, there were seven of us that were voted new. So maybe seven of us need to know who's on the committee. Thank you. Any other office? Alderman McNeely? Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I would like to thank Diane Chandler. She left, but I certainly want to thank her for recognizing Ron Moore.
 I appreciated Ron Moore for several years here, accommodating me with information relevant to my ward as well as to the city overall. I went to the wake of Ron Moore and there
 city dignitaries that were at his service. So I hope that his family know that we are concerned and we are gonna miss him and wish them the very best under the circumstance. And I would like to thank
 Mr. McVinney with RMTD for coming here tonight and sharing information with us. But I would most like to thank him for the shelters that are on West State Street. There are about four that are on West State Street, and I do appreciate it. They're clear, transparent.
 plexiglass probably and a bench inside as well and lighting and by some of them there are waste baskets so people can discard their garbage. So I want to thank them that is something that was desperately needed in the past in certain areas. RMTD due to budget concerns had gotten rid of some of the shelters and I would always
 Talk, call them and try and convince them and in some cases successful to get those shelters back. So I'm very pleased to have them there now along West State Street. I look forward to seeing the rest of West State Street done and having those shelters there. Thank you. Unfinished business ordinance laid over. Planning and development. Codes and regs.
 I have one item, it's the vacation of a portion of public alley adjacent to 709 Dickerman Street for the cost of $200, subject to conditions. The ordinance was inadvertently left off the agenda for August 17, 2015. The committee report was approved on August 3, 2015. I'd like to ask for passage. Is that a motion? Yes. Second? Second. We've had a motion and a second. Any discussion? Pardon? This is under discussion.
 Thank you. Yes. There are 12 members of the City Council in the Chamber. It requires the unanimous vote of all 12 to pass this matter. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Is the 2015 date correct, or is that a typo? It's correct? I'm not sure I remember this. Yeah. I want to apologize.
 On that evening, there were less than 12 aldermen in the chamber, so it laid over because it requires 12, and we neglected to put it back on the agenda, so that's why the delay. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. This is in my ward. It's kind of what we call a scrub alley. It's bushes, shrubs, trees. It really doesn't exist anymore, and this actually takes it off the city's hands because you really can't do anything with it, and the property owner...
 If they haven't already cleaned it up and we'll make some use of it so I do hope everyone will support it so we can clean it up. Alderman McNeely. Thank you Mayor Pro Tem. I will take this opportunity. I've stated this in the past that I think that the city should.
 in alleys that are no longer used and under previous public works directors, it's been stated that they're not pushing the alleys, we're still not pushing the alleys. It's up to the aldermen to push the alleys. So I really would like to see something from staff where we could have a discussion in Coles and Reds about giving the alleys to
 the property owners along that alley so that it can be cleaned up and not look like a nuisance and not have animals and people dumping in the alleys. We need to address that as a city. We can't just say we're no longer taking care of alleys and not doing anything with it and then expect for the residents to do it
 and not have ownership or something from them working with that part of an alley that's really the city. Thank you. We can do a roll call. No, I'm gonna do. It's an ordinance, it requires a roll call. Yes, ma'am. Roll call, clerk, please. Aye. Aye. Aye. 12 ayes, the matter passes. Finance and personnel? If we'd be okay with, Your Honor, if we can go back to unfinished business.
 for one moment. I'd like to, if there's no objection from the other alderman, I'd like to refer the CIP back to financing personnel. And I'm not sure if that requires a vote, if there's no objection. So if it does not require a vote, it's okay with our legal director, then that's that. Mr. Hayes?
 So the chair of the committee can take things back. Generally, that's mixed up in a lot of other votes, but there might be a vote confirming. Obviously, the chair of the committee can direct things, be placed on the agenda at the committee meetings. This matter is before the city council. Unless somebody would call an objection if the matter was agended at the finance committee, I don't see any reason for a vote. But if you're more comfortable taking a vote, you can't.
 I'm seeing nodding heads, so I'm assuming we're good to go. All right, and then under appointments laid over, correct? That's where we're at now, yes. Place the reappointment to the Historical Preservation Commission of David Cody for a term ending January 2019, and also a reappointment to the Fire Pension Board of Michael A. White, term ending January 2019. Place those up for passage. Okay, this calls for a vote.
 Discussion? All in favor say aye. Opposed? Both appointments pass. Correct? Mr. Hayes? Thank you. Motions and resolutions? Planning and development. Using approved ranking system, place that up for passage. Discussion? McNeely? Thank you, Mayor Fulton. There was my colleague, she's not here tonight, did question some properties along Kilburn.
 I don't see the director. Oh, regarding properties along Kilburn and I can't think of a side street. But I wanted to know if those were included. I hadn't questioned it last week because in the past it was listed, they were listed, and I would like to make sure that they're in that 2016. It's on the memorandum of license.
 I know what's on, I'm sorry. It's under 9A1, small letter A. If you click on it, that's the list. I would like an answer from the director, Mayor Pro Tem. Dan, the question, I believe you're asking, Alderman Elia had raised a question about some of the properties that were on the demolition list that was approved at committee. So she was referencing existing buildings that were proposed.
 for approval as I understood her question at committee. But the list is the list. I didn't understand that there was a request from any alderman for further consideration of any additional properties from what we had brought forward, understanding that that list did include the referrals that we had received over the alderman from the last time we had approved a list.
 Those were the properties that she was questioning and implying that they should be on there. And so if they're not on there, and this is before us tonight, rather than laying it over, there is opportunity that we can put those properties on.
 That is correct. We anticipate later in the year we'll be bringing another batch forward. And in the short term, I will, if I misunderstood and there's additional properties, we'll have them inspected and ranked and see where they fall out in the list and advise the council. Thank you. More discussion? Alderman Harvey? I just want to clarify what Mr. Cagnoni is saying. If we have properties that are not on any list –
 we can recommend those. But we're not adjusting the list, I'm assuming, at people's request. My understanding is the rankings are the rankings and you're not going to adjust it once it's out. But if we have excess money, you will come back and take the, what I call the comprehensive list and derive the rankings from those. Am I incorrect? Mr. Cagnoni?
 Thank you, Chairman. That is correct. All the referrals from Alderman have been ranked in accordance with the list. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. The planning development created the list to make the properties for demolition rank as objective as possible. The list is dynamic. That is to say if a property on a list, let's say,
 I'll pick a property. It's number 42, 1135 Crosby Street. It's ranked 42. Got a score of 59. If there were to be a fire to break out, an alderman can request that the house be reexamined and given a new score and re-ranked. So the list is dynamic. So at any time, an alderman can request a property to be reexamined, but it still goes through,
 the same ranking process. So properties themselves are dynamic. If all of a sudden something happened to a property, that is how we crafted this. I have a question, Mr. Cagnoni. It sounds like we're talking about two different things. One, we're talking about changing the ranking of a property that's on the list, or are we talking about,
 I have a property I want to add to the list. We are not adding to this list we are discussing or considering tonight, correct? That is correct. This is the list.
 That is correct and we have not in the past and maybe just I'll restate how we got this existing list. So we've had a ranking list that has been in existence as Alderman Durkee stated that was approved by the Planning and Development Committee and we had created lists for moving forward with demolition that we have brought forward to city council over the last two years as the program has been in existence.
 Over the last 60 days, we grabbed all those properties and re-ranked them, understanding that not the ranking system has changed, but the dynamics of some of the properties may have changed and related to both the automated system
 provisions of the ranking system approved by City Council as well as the conditions of the property. But all the properties have been listed or ranked in accordance to the ranking system as approved by City Council. And as you look at the list, you'll see some that have asterisks next to them. So those are properties that have changed
 over the course of the last 12 months and have been climbed up the ranking system or down the ranking system because of the condition of the property. Additionally, we know that as we go through this process because this is a hundred properties and we'll be working on these hundred properties throughout the year, it's likely that conditions will change on those properties
 throughout that time. Someone may take ownership, someone may pursue an alternative course for the properties or they may object to the properties as we've had historically. So that's why the list is also a hundred properties but by all means
 We're not changing this list. Once this list is set, we'll break it down into a number of demolition batches and move it forward. It's likely towards the end of the year that we may have objections or opportunities that come forward through partnerships or grants that we would have another list that we would bring forward for consideration.
 The only time that the ranking system is not followed is when we have a fire and it becomes an immediate situation and we have to pursue fast-track demolition because of the condition of the property that exists. Thank you. Any more discussion? Clerk, call the roll. Call. Aye. 12 ayes, passes. Codes and regs?
 9B1, a resolution of the city of Rockford, Winnebago County, Illinois, creating a special fair housing committee. Your Honor, as chairman of that committee, I'd like to refer that motion to the Codes and Rights Committee. Did you go back to Codes and Rights? That's correct. I'll second that. Thank you. Finance and personnel. Thank you. Four items. The first is a war of a bid for tree removal and maintenance. The second is
 I'm sorry, for an annual estimated value of $650,000. The second is the Pierpont Avenue bridge deck replacement to landmark contractors for their bid of $257,162.26. Third is a contract for environmental consultant to perform environmental assessment work at former industrial sites
 City of Rockford received an assessment grant award of $200,000. The award fair grant associates $150,000. And for the current hazardous substance assessment grant to perform assessment work at priority sites. And they awarded Avanti Group of $50,000 to perform phase one ESA work at sites and brownfield areas.
 And then the last one is the engineering agreement for Pierpont Avenue bridge deck replacement to H.R. Green, an amount not to exceed $27,127.22. And I ask for suspension. I'm sorry, I place those items up for passage. Okay. Items Roman Nubro 9C1, 2, 3, and 4 are up for passage. Any discussion? Clerk, would you call the roll? Your name? I. I. 12 ayes. The matter is passed. Thank you.
 New Business Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Codes and Regs. Your Honor, Roman numeral 10 and B1 and 2, I move to suspend the rules. Second. Motion to suspend. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? I place those two items up for passage, Your Honor. Discussion? Roll call. Aye. Aye. Roll call.
 Matters passed. Finance and personnel? And C, items 1 and 2, as for suspension of rules? Second. All those in favor of suspending the rules? Aye. Opposed? And I place them after passage. Any discussion? Roll call, please. Aye on 1, no on 2. Matters passed. All those in favor say aye. Opposed? Adjourned. Yes.