2019 and this evening we have chaplain chaplain james brooke of saint rita catholic church for our invocation heavenly father we are grateful for your presence among us at this time and place we ask that you be generous and the wisdom you impart to us and that we be receptive to that wisdom and that all that is done here is done in your service and for the best interests of the people of the city of rockford
 We ask this in your holy name. Amen.
 Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening. One item that's not on your agenda, I apologize, is we do have one special proclamation this evening. I believe we have Rhonda Robinson here and members of the NAACP. This evening we have a Black History Month proclamation, if you'd like to come on up. Whereas in 1915, Dr. Carter Godwin Woodson founded the Association
 the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, who went on to found Negro History Week in 1926, expanding this to Black History Month in 1976. And whereas in order to carry on this tradition, Black History Month is observed to inspire, inform, and educate our citizens about the history of black men and women, and the contributions they have made to American life,
 and culture. And whereas each year during Black History Month we discover once more a treasure of untold history about the triumph of human spirit.
 And whereas their untold history is not only an important part of black history, but an essential part of American history. And it is fitting that we set aside a special time to acknowledge this important segment of citizens of our state, our city, and our history. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of February 2019 to be Black History Month. Would you like to share a few words with us, Rhonda?
 the NAACP would like to say thank you. We're the oldest and the boldest and we fight for injustice and we will continue. We would like to also thank Abraham Lincoln and Frederick Douglass for taking the time to put this together and make it an amendment. So thank you everyone and please help us and continue to support the NAACP advancement
 colored people. We've been around since 1909. We're a hundred and nine, yeah a hundred and ten years old. We're getting tomorrow. So thank you. Next up we have Petitions and Communications Alderman Bill Rose for Planning and Development. Thank you your honor.
 We have a memorandum from Matthew Flores, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a proposed resolution appointing Todd Cagnoni as trustee to the Board of Trustees for the Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have Code and Regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. One item is the presentation of a resolution by the American Association of University Women supporting efforts to establish a Family Justice Center in Rockford, Illinois. And we would welcome you to come right up here. I kind of have to speak first.
 To guarantee equality, individual rights, and social justice for a diverse society, the American Association of University Women advocates freedom from violence and fear of violence including hate crimes in homes, schools, workplaces, and communities. In line with our public policy priorities, AUW Rockford Area Branch resolves to support the Family Justice Center.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, we have public speakers. I'd remind our public speakers that you have three minutes to speak, and there's microphones in the back right and back left of our chamber. Our first public speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of 1 Timothy, the third chapter, the fifth verse, it says, if anyone does not know how to take care of his own family, how can he take care of God's church? What I want to speak about tonight, an urgent safety issue about City Hall. City Hall needs policemen to protect the public and the workers who work at City Hall. Last Monday, a lowlife was bothering my wife for no reason, and I had to put the idiot in check. We are living in a time people do anything. There's a saying, he who hesitates is lost.
 In Vietnam, we used to say, he who hesitates is dead. If you had police from doing security, the incident that happened last week in City Hall Lobby could have been avoided. You have people coming in out of City Hall, and they are not in the building to take care of any business. You need to stop this right now before someone gets hurt. I believe in CPTED, which stands for Crime Prevention Through Environment Design. Also, they want to tell my great-nephew, who is a criminal lawyer, and Alderman Durkee,
 And Mrs. Wendy Hensley, who works for Rockford Mass Transit, this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you.
 Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. And I also want to thank the new police officer for his service. 0311, that's a hard job in the Marine Corps. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28, verses 27 say, God want us to identify with the Navy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed.
 and we have others when they are in trouble they would do whatever they can to return the favor paul promised that god was to try all our needs he usually does this to our people what can you do today to help god supply one lead well today we want to thank all our sponsors that uh... we raised over twelve hundred dollars to uh... go to disney on ice i thought i would be only taking forty now i'll be able to take seventy kids to disney on ice doing that uh...
 On that day, it's going to be on my birthday. We're going to have Dr. Letitia Wallace who's going to be speaking about domestic violence and life skills. We're also going to have the TV channel there with Officer Thurman who thinks he can dance. So we're going to have old school against new school. We're going to have a 64-year-old going against a 24-year-old. And I ain't never lost a dance contest. Ha ha!
 It's going to be all, we're going to have 815 diversity performing. Also, we'd like for the mayor and the city council and also the department, the human resource department, I had a talk with Maurice West. He made connection with DCSF. DCSF agreed to want to have a town hall meeting with us and we're looking at doing this next month. But having this town hall meeting.
 is not to talk about them or put them down, but to find a way that we can modify the way that our residents are treated when it comes to reporting domestic violence. I also want to bring up Jake Costanza. Saw him today. We still working on rebuild Rockford to diversify the workforce.
 They're going to hire felons and they're going to waive the felon. They have to pass the drug test. Then they're going to work 90 days. They're going to make $1,000. After that $1,000, they will go to the apprenticeship. That $500 will be waived. They will make $1,850 an hour. We have more than three, four, five construction workers that don't live in Rockford. They're going to be hiring 16 to 20 African-American or minorities that will be making $1,850
 an hour. That is a win win all the way around. We had to help push. I'm asking y'all to help push Jake Costanza and the others who this program has been going on for years. But brother John was able to bring over 80 people that's interested in this program and we can hire 40 to 50 of these people that got felons. What do you think would happen? Domestic violence will go down, crime will go down. Our economy will be upbringing because I'm gonna tell you, our people
 uh when they get some money they don't hold it in their pocket they're gonna spin so it's a win-win all all the way around to get and there is also a win for rocket housing authority because we got a lot of my noise running but uh don't have the opportunity to make that kind of money so uh thank you for uh giving me my three and a half minutes and you used every second of it so uh next uh public speaker we have is shauna jefferson
 Hello City Council and all the citizens here. I'm coming from a place of where I'm having an event May 25th, 2019. It's called Bloodshed and it's dear to my heart because my brother was murdered here in the city of Rockford just a few years ago. And in this Bloodshed event, I want to hit on some of the topics that has been already addressed.
 but dealing with murder, suicide, drugs, alcohol, bullying, and domestic violence. But in the bloodshed event, I want to also also hit on prevention. What can we do to stop this from happening? We talk about it after the murders and all this stuff and the people, the blood is already shed. We want to implement some mentorships and training to help these young men and women to grow up, to be good citizens because of their background, maybe hinder them from getting jobs.
 My pastor has his own construction company called LT Construction, and he works with men. He's in the jails for 15 years, and he hears the conversations of how these men are asking, what am I going to do when I get out? No one's going to hire me. So we want to see what the city of Rafa can help us do by allocating some type of rehabilitation for the homes, the sidewalks, something that is set aside to help LT Constructions, to help employ some of those, as even the young man was talking about,
 to help them build themselves not only with just hope, but to be able to be families, to be providing for their families, to be good citizens, to help their daughters and sons, because the loss of my brother was deep to me. And to talk to these families and hear not only just the loss from me as a victim, but even the loss of the person who pulled the trigger and did it. They're still hurting too. And we need to bring our community together to build back trust. They don't trust the law enforcement. They don't trust politicians. They don't trust the church.
 but they trust us as a people if we can come down and meet them at their need and talk to them at that level, not in leadership, but as this is our community. So what can we do to bring it back as one? So I wanna know what the City Hall can help LT Construction and my bloodshed event do to be a better help in this community to bring families more comfort and they can stop with the grieving and the hurt and the cycle of anger against generations of families
 of families because of what that family member did to the other family member. Thank you. Thank you for sharing that. Uh, next step is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and second. Any discussion? Seeing none. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed.