chaplain henley is here i do not see him so i will call on our local chaplain alderman beach please thank you sir let's pray together father we're grateful that you listen to us that you actually invite us to come to you and we ask you to be with us tonight lord in this council chambers there's a lot of business for the city we're a city in need lord we're growing but there's tension and we ask god that you give us guidance and wisdom
 Bless this evening, now we pray, in your precious name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, clerk. Will you please call the roll? Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here.
 Beach. Here. Quinones. McNeely. Here. Shirely. Here. Logaman. Here. 12 present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Next up, we have, is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on January 28th? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign.
 Motion passes. Next, is there a motion for the journal proceedings for the strategic planning session held on January 28, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Next, is there a motion for the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on February 4, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye.
 Those opposed, same sign. Excellent. Motion passes. Last one. Is there a motion for the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on February 11th, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Those four motions pass. Next up, we have no proclamations this evening, but we do have a special petition in communication from our very own legal director, Director Myers.
 We are in receipt of the quarterly franchise fee payment from Comcast in the amount of $446,838.57. Excellent. Always good news to hear. Next up, we have Petitions and Communications Planning and Development, Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have a memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section 108, public offering to lock in fixed interest rates on the city of Rockford. Note number B-15-MC-17-0020 and the amount of $2,725,000 for cliffbreakers, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have Code and Regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items this evening. The first is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda and the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on February 20th, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting held on February 25th, 2019. Thank you.
 Skip to number three the memorandum from Lafayette area Vaughn the assistant city attorney regarding the first amendment to the annexation agreement for Guilford crossings number four is a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty finance director regarding the modifications and
 to section 2-714 fee for one-time electronic payment in section 28 through 186 rates for regular service of the city of rockford code of ordinances number five memorandum from scott capovilla zoning and land use administrator regarding the updated policies and guidelines for addressing and street naming all five of those will be referred to the codes and rights committee
 Thank You alderman Shirely next up we have finance and personnel alderman Herbie Thank You Your Honor have four items tonight The first is a memorandum from LaFerrari Yvonne Assistant City Attorney regarding the first lease renewal between the city of Rockford in one main financial group LLC For the property located at 2 11 Elm Street. That's the parking deck section B commonly known as one main financial and
 The second is a memorandum from Finance Director Kerry Hagerty regarding billing convenience fees.
 The third is a memorandum from Finance Director Kerry Haragde regarding ambulance billing fees. And the fourth is a referral of the request to the Finance and Personnel Committee for review and approval to submit an application for use of Head Start or early Head Start COLA funds. All four of those items will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Thank you Alderman Hervey. Next up we have public speakers. I'd remind all of our public speakers that they have three minutes and they can use the microphones in the back right or back left of the chamber. Our first public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Stand up. Good evening Tom McIntyre, all the persons and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois.
 God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, courage to change the things I can, and wisdom to know the difference. Living one day at a time, enjoying one moment at a time, accepting hardship but prepare to peace. Taking as he did, this sinful world as it is, not as I would have it. Trusting that he will make all things right if I surrender to his will. That I may be reasonably happy in this life, and supremely happy with him forever in the next life. Why President Day is a
 federal holiday and other facts. America used to celebrate the holiday on February 22nd, which was George Washington's birthday, but they changed in 1968 when Congress passed the Uniform Monday Holiday Act. The bill went into effect a year and a half later in 1971, recognized various holidays to be observed on Monday, ensuring that several long weekends for workers throughout the year, President's Day has particularly began to celebrate on the
 third Monday of February. We have several presidents that was in office who birthday fall in February. Now also in February, on February the 24th of 1955, John Tack Brantley was born in the Black History Month, so that became a national holiday. So I was
 So I want to get to the point that I put my foot in my mouth when I said we was going to take 60 kids to Disney on ice. Well, I have 105 kids that we got signed up. So far, I have 95 tickets that we have. And this here are my...
 a contribution list and I got three contribution lists. So I'm still like 10 tickets short, which is $15 or $17 a piece. So I'll be able to take all the kids. What I did was I told the families they only had to pay $10 and I will cover the rest. Well, do you know that a lot of our families in fairgrounds and elsewhere got six and seven kids? One mom got eight kids. So that's where the number,
 uh... increasing that's why i say i put my uh... foot in my mouth but i'm looking forward to being able to leave it in the lord's hand and being able to make this happen tonight i'm taking our young teenagers to uh... to the uh...
 Ignore. I'm taking our young kids to the Trivial Night where at the library they have a black history question. So we're going to see how much history do our young teenagers know that's going to be from 6 to 7 30 at the library. And I'm looking forward to taking them there. And I'm also looking forward to this past, yesterday, Monday,
 We took 55 people to the police station to watch the movie, and we also was able to provide them with pizza on Monday. So I wanna thank the police department for doing that for us, and I look forward to y'all's support and helping me get them. Next up, we have Prophet Yusef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, 119th chapter and 105th verse,
 It says, thy word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my pathway. What I want to speak about tonight, the 12 acronyms for black history. B stands for beautifully made in God image, bold, black, and forgiving. L stands for loving, kind, and divine. We are one of a kind. A stands for amazing and mighty through Jesus Christ. Being black is very nice. C stands for caring, sharing, and giving makes life worth living. K stands for keep on.
 keep it on and you will get where you are going. H stands for helping others, your sisters and brothers, let not your heart be troubled. I stands for I am who I am, we are who we are by the grace of God, we have come this far. S stands for so wonderful to be who we are, no shucking, no jiving, no conniving. T stands for totally awesome, we are the sky which are our limit.
 Soul stands for order in the universe is what they say. You cannot wish black people away. Our stands for reaping what we sow is a plus. Our 40 acres and a mule, and don't forget, our $100 is still waiting for us. Why stands for yes we can. Just remember, color doesn't make a woman or man. Also want to thank the African American men who spoke sadly about their experience in the military in Vietnam in Memorial Hall.
 have Alderman Logerman in prayer. And God bless you and your family. I also want to thank you for being a veteran. And God take care of you in Afghanistan and bring you back home safely. Heaven's angels to protect you like they protect me when I was in Vietnam. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Next up we have a new committee reports or new committee reports. First is planning and development, Alderman Rose. Thank you, your honor.
 committee recommends approval of the renewal of the license agreement between zion development corporation and the city of rockford for the use of 908 8th avenue as a strong house the legal director is preparing the appropriate ordinance thank you is there any discussion on the item before us saying no discussion clerk will you please call the role turkey logeman toomber frost hervey urbans thompson kelly
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Item passes. Next up we have Code and Regulation. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 One item this evening the committee recommends approval of the modification to chapter 7 article 5 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances Alarm system the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance place that committee report up for passage Thank you all the material we have one item before you is there any discussion on the one item before you? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? logan Toomer frost
 Herbie Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely 13 eyes excellent those items pass next up. We have finance and personnel alderman Harvey. Thank you your honor. I
 have four items the first being a committee recommending approval of the vouchers in the amount of nine million forty three thousand two hundred and fifty six dollars and ten cents that were approved at the committee meeting on February 11th 2019
 number two is recommending approval of the request for exception to the fine reduction policy the applicant is requesting that mowing liens for 309 south 4th street be reduced from 1242 dollars to 420 dollars which represents the city's actual cost minus administrative fees
 Number three is a committee recommending approval, recommending approving the request for the authority to hire a new senior engineer technician within the engineering division of public works.
 And item number four is the committee recommending approval of the updated 2018 property tax abatements. For 2018, the debt service levy is $10,663,196.28 and will be abated in its entirety. The legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinances for items three and four. Excellent. And we have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. All those items passed. Next up we have officers reports. Any aldermen with officer reports?
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly? I just want to announce there will be a meeting at West Gateway District 1 tomorrow at 10 a.m. The Rockford Register Star Editorial Board, as well as the Rockford Mass Transit District, will be there to answer questions from the residents. 10 a.m. 10 a.m. tomorrow morning? Yes. Thank you.
 Alderman Hoffman. I would like to thank you for coming to the Rollingdale meeting and we had a pretty good time I think that was a lot of fun. We got the message out in a good way. Thank you so much Thanks for giving us opportunity alderman Rose. I just I wanted to recognize a local
 young man who went downstate and brought back a wrestling title a championship for East High School Aiden Gutridge came back with the heavyweight title and I'm hoping that we can celebrate him here down within the next few weeks here at City Hall, so Wanted to congratulate him. So awesome. Thanks and thanks for connecting us to do that. I
 Alderman Beach and then Alderman McKinley. Yes, thank you, Your Honor. I have a resolution, I don't know exactly where to bring it now on this agenda. Requesting it to codes and regulations committee, study safety concerns, various options, including concepts, drawings and costs from the 2014 redesign, I'd like to refer that to codes for study.
 Excellent, we will come around and grab that from the alderman beat appreciate that. I know when you last brought it up I know we have a team working on it. So that's perfect timing Alderman McNeely Thank You. Mr. Mayor. I want to thank director Davis and his staff I'm a little late in reporting this but I am very pleased with director Davis and his staff for helping a homeless man
 find a place to stay. He was, I shouldn't have said homeless, but he had moved here from the Chicago area to be with his daughter that had moved here from Chicago and his grandkids. And he was staying in a hotel and his funding was getting low.
 He started taking dialysis and that's how I met him because I take my dad to the same center that he was attending And he had shared his story with me and I said well, let me see what I can do I'll talk with Some individuals at the city and see if they can help and they were excellent. I'm they immediately Start working on it, and I don't believe that it took two weeks to
 I don't think it took two weeks for them to help him and he moved into a place to live and he just in time before he ran out of funding to be paying for the hotel and he's so happy to be here with his daughter and grandkids. So a huge thank you to you, Director Davis, and to your staff.
 Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you. Any other officers' reports? Seeing none, we'll move on to motions and resolutions. Alderman Rose for planning and development. We have one item. It's a resolution appointing Todd Cagnoni as the Board of Trustees for Northern Illinois Land Bank Authority. Questionable, I know. Wait, Alderman Irby got that. Thanks. Alderman McNeely, did you have your hand raised? Yeah.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I think that City Manager Cagnoli would be great for this, but I was questioning whether or not Director Haggerty should not be included in this as well, at least for this position as a trustee there. And I'm not sure how we're handling the aldermen, if they're going to be a trustee or a position an alderman would hold.
 regarding this but certainly wanting the alderman to be included in some form want to or whatever but wondering if the finance should shouldn't be a trustee as well so good good points correct me if I'm wrong here one we are allowed one trustee
 And two, I know from just having conversations with city administrator Kegnone and director Haggerty, they're going to be talking as well as with director Franz and about how any decisions that are made. There are no aldermen on this body. We only get one seat.
 So I tried to choose the individual I thought that would have the broadest depth of knowledge and also the resources of everyone But I believe aldermen would be able to attend the meetings. Are they going to be public? Yes, okay They'll be public so you will make sure all aldermen are aware of when those meetings are and that anyone can attend Thank you. Did I?
 alderman herbert a quick question i know it may come up later but will we have a publicized list of properties that we're seeking to add to the land bank or a priority list how will we determine
 That's out of line until a different meeting. I just kind of wondered how the process is gonna go I know I'll turn you over to city administrator cake Noni I know that no property would be able to be acquired without our consent and I Assuming that we will be needing all of your input on that potential list But I turn you over to city administrator. There's anything further to add I
 I think you said it well, Your Honor. I think there's, you know, as we get the land bank seated with all the trustees and work through some, you know, procedures of operation, there will be a number of conversations related to what properties the land bank may take on as well as what partnerships may take place with individual municipalities or counties. So I can't fully answer your question at this time, but I would –
 suspect that it's going to be a team effort from the the City Rock for staff side as well as Participation from City Council as we initiate the land bank any other discussion or questions seeing none clerk Would you please call the roll turkey? Logoman Toomer Frost Herbie Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely
 13 eyes next up. We have the code and regulation committee alderman Charlie. Thank your honor Kind of thinking for his service that he provides on different committees in the Senate Rockford zoning Board of Appeals also appreciate that
 Okay, Your Honor, I've got the proposed sale of surplus properties. A resolution authorizing the listing of city-owned surplus real estate for sale. The following properties will be listed with Gambino Realtors. 418 Albert for $1,000.
 1008 13th Street for $1,000 314 North Sunset Avenue for $1,000 614 North Avon Street for $1,000 715 7th Avenue for $5,000 and 21 X X Reed Avenue for $24,900
 Also, the city will obtain appraisals for the properties listed below, 116 and 120 South 2nd Street, former city body shop, and 325 South Madison Street, the former watch factory.
 Moving on, number two is the Midsummer Festival, scheduled for Saturday, June 15, 2019. Number three is the Swedish American State Street Mile with IDOT temporary road closures resolution, scheduled for Saturday, August 3, 2019.
 Number four is the st. Patrick's Day parade scheduled for Saturday, March 16th, 2019 and number five is late Life'scape fourth of July classic run walk scheduled for Thursday, July 4th 2019 Place those up for passage your honor. Excellent. So we have five items before you Is there any discussion on the five items before you seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? turkey logan in Toonberg frost
 Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Shirelli? 13 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, if Alderman Hervey needs any water at any point throughout the next... I don't have water. I need you. You're ready. Oh. Oh.
 All right, go for it. All right. Item one is rejection of a bid that was received for Coleman Village lead-based paint abatement project. Staff is recommending rejection of the bid and the project rebid or the scope of work revised at a later date. Item two is an award of bid for Coleman Village
 uh pcbs uh that'll be woodblock flooring and piping abatement to fisher excavating in the amount of 499 890 dollars the completion date is april 26 2019 the funding source is 414 908 dollars and 70 cents cents will come from u.s epa and 84 981 dollars and 30 cents to cip general fund
 Item 3 is an award of bid for elevator inspection services to Elevator Inspection Service Company of Burr Ridge, Illinois, in the amount of $28,480 based on unit pricing. Contract duration is one year with three possible annual extensions. Funding sources, community development operating budget.
 Item 4 is an award of bid for auto parts and supplies to IWI Motor Parts of McChesney Park, Napa Auto Parts of Rockford, Interstate Batteries of Rockford, and Lakeside International of Rockford for an estimated annual value of $110,000 based on unit pricing. Contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions.
 Funding source is General Garage Fund. Item five is an award of the joint purchasing contract, purchasing of three engines to Global Emergency Products of Aurora, Illinois in the amount of $1,852,160. There's a balloon payment due in order to retain an aerial ladder truck that we purchased in 2012 in the amount of $268,631.95.
 the funding sources capital lease funds and fire department capital budget item six is an award of contract for citywide vehicle replacement to anderson rock river ford in the amount of one million fifty four thousand
 $538. The total number of vehicles is 36 and consists of the following. Two 2019 makes and models. 18 Ford Escapes, four Ford Expeditions, six Ford F-150s, four Ford F-250s, and one Ford F-350. One Ford F-450 dump truck and two Ford Transit vans. Funding sources, lease funds and various divisions capital budgets.
 Item seven is an award of bid to police firearm for police firearms to Ray O'Hare and company of Danville, Illinois for total price of $126,280 with the trade in value of $76,700 and a total contract amount of $49,580 funding sources police department operating budget.
 Eight is a sole source contract for police portable radios and accessories to Motorola Inc. of Schaumburg for contract amount of $59,996.89. Funding sources police operating budget. Item nine is award of the joint purchasing agreement for one police vehicle that's dedicated for canine use with Curry Motors fleet.
 of Forest Park, Illinois in the amount of $34,695. The funding source is private fundraising. Item 10 is an award of a joint purchasing contract for three police vehicles to Roche Ford Commercial Truck Center of Bensonville, Illinois in the amount of $81,147. Funding source is capital lease funds.
 11 is award of a joint purchasing contract for three police vehicles to Napleton Fleet Group of Oak Brook Terrace, Illinois, in the amount of $76,218, funding sources capital lease funds. Item 12, an award of a joint purchasing contract for 28 police vehicles to Curtie Moe.
 Curry Motors fleet of Forest Park, Illinois, in the amount of 842,000 to sorry, 842,575 dollars. The funding source capital lease funds item 13 is an award of a joint purchasing contract for police dash mounted cameras, laptop computers.
 docking stations for the new patrol cars to CDS office technologies of this task Itasca Illinois in the amount of two hundred five thousand seven hundred and twenty dollars funding sources capital lease funds item 14 is an award of a non-competitive contract for police biddle
 police vehicle upfitting and lighting to Federal Signal Corporation of Oak Brook, Illinois in the amount of $159,542. The funding source is capital lease funds.
 Item 15 is an award of non-competitive contract police vehicle consoles partitions gun racks and related accessories to ultra ultra strobe communications Inc of Crystal Lake, Illinois in the amount of 110 thousand six hundred and eighty one dollars funding sources capital lease funds and
 Item 16 is an award of RFP for well and pump services to Lane Christensen Company of Aurora, Illinois, and Water Well Solutions of Elburn, Illinois, for an estimated contract amount of $500,000 based on unit pricing. Contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions. The funding source is the Water Fund.
 Item 17 is an award of engineering agreement for 2019 water system improvement. That's for design and inspection services to Fair Graham of Rockford.
 For an estimated budgeted amount of 425,000 dollars based on hourly rates, the contract duration is 12 months and the funding sources water replacement improvement account. And finally, item 18 is an award of engineering agreement for skater support services to enhanced networks.
 Net Works Inc. of Mundelein, Illinois for an estimated annual contract value of $55,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year. Funding source is Water Division Operating Budget, and I place those 18 items up for passage. Well done. So we have 18 items before you. Is there a discussion? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Just on number four, is that really...
 five-year contract one year with four or is it like number three possible four year contract extensions this is this is one year and then it would be extended one year at a time for a total of five possible years under the contract so is it just going to roll over by itself then no no we will we will
 we evaluate all of these annual contracts near the end of the term and that there's a provision in all of those contracts to allow for vendors to request price adjustments with Documentation at that time. We'll consider those Look at usage things like that before we none of these automatically roll forward well, the reason I ask is it's probably not a big deal, but on number three I
 The words come in here, possible annual extensions. Correct. Which lets me know that maybe we're not going to do that. That's correct. But that's not the wording in number four.
 yeah and I apologize that they they are all possible annual extensions we generally word those at consent of both the city and the vendor so thank you yes Thank You Alderman Beach next up Alderman McNeely Thank you Mr. Mayor so Director Hagerty does that mean that each one will be coming back to the council
 No, we evaluate those from a staff perspective to determine whether or not we want to extend or put them back out. We're asking council to approve up to the maximum number of years that are allowed. So not every annual extension would not come back to council for approval, no. Thank you. I'm sorry. Any further discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Irvins? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Quinones? McNeely? Chiarelli? Items 1, 2, 12 ayes. Item 3, 4, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 5 through 18, 12 ayes. Those items pass. Next up we have new business. We have Alderman Rose for planning and development.
 Just one item, an ordinance approving the renewal of the license agreement between the Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse. Excellent. Is there any discussion on that one item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee, Lokeman, Toomer, Frost, Herbie, Irvins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely,
 Shirely 12 eyes excellent item passes next up. We have code and regulation committee with alderman Shirely. Thank you honor The norm it's approving the modification to chapter 7 article 5 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances Alarm system place that ordinance up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion seeing none clerk? Will you please call the roll Durkee? Logoman Toomer frost Hervey Irvins Hoffman
 Rose? Aye. Veach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? 12 ayes. Excellent. That item passes. Next up we have Finance and Personnel. Alderman Hervey? Thank you, Your Honor. Just two items. The first is an ordinance approving the hiring of a new senior engineer technician within the Engineering Division of Public Works. The second is an ordinance approving the updated 2018 property tax abatements.
 For 2018, the debt service levy, $10,663,196.28, and will be abated in its entirety. Place those three up. Thank you. The items before you, are there any questions on the items before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose Aye Beach Aye Quinones Aye McNeely Aye Shirely Aye 12 ayes Now because of legal director Myers I have to call on Alderman Shirely Should I? No No No No No Alright thank you your honor for the honor of presenting this The following the ordinance I don't need to read that No
 Move to go into closed session to convene to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters and labor negotiation matters At this point I wish we were in the Parliament and then people would be booing you We have a motion in a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Gerke All right Logeman Aye Tooburg Aye Frost Aye Hervey Aye Irvins Aye Kierkegaard
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. We will break for closed session.