There's been a motion and a second to accept the journal. Are there any amendments or changes to the journal? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, seven. We have a public hearing scheduled for this evening. We have three speakers sign up for public participation. We're gonna work with our speakers. They can use either the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start going over the time, I will ask them to wrap up our first speaker this evening, and roll in Paschal.
 Today's Chicago Tribune started the ball going. Black-owned banks in danger. Blacks can't get any money. We all need money. And where do we get it? Do we beg? Nobody will give us a loan. Or do we steal? I, Rowan Poska, have not heard a single valid reason not to start Social Security at the beginning.
 We need money. We just need loans. We need not rob the rich if they help us get a loan. Appoint someone to find the money. Had Bill O'Donnell been appointed 10 years ago to find the money, today we would have the money. It's there. Abraham Lincoln paid for the Civil War with the money in the Constitution.
 The Constitution, all the gold in the universe can't buy the Constitution. We can borrow tons of money against the Constitution. We can give everybody a chance to be a somebody. Everybody needs a loan sometime. Get creative. Thank you very much. Our next speaker is John Brightling.
 Good evening, I'm Mayor Marcy Alderman of the Women's and Citizens of Rockford, Illinois. This is part four from last week, Proverbs 28, verse 13, saying it's a human nature to decide to hide our sins or overlook our mistakes, but it's hard to learn from a mistake you don't acknowledge making. And what good is a mistake if it doesn't teach you something? To learn from an error, you need to admit it, confess it, analyze it, and make adjustments so that it doesn't happen again.
 Everybody makes mistakes, but only fools repeat them. This is the year that we'll be going full force on education, training and jobs. However, we must first go head up with black on black crime and domestic violence in and around Rockford, Illinois. This past weekend we had a man up march and rally. It was a challenge to the community to unite. More than 100 brave peoples came out in sub zero,
 chilling weather against violence. The event started at fairgrounds and ended at Lewis Lemon Elementary School. I agree with what co-organizer Wooden Muhammad said, this is not a march to blame anyone but to look introspectively about what we need to do. I say not tomorrow
 not next year but starting right now today. Oh, by the way, there were 30 of us from Renewal Turning Point who was in the march and we'd like to thank RHA Van Driver and Transform Rocker for supporting us. Brother William Muhammad said, and I quote him, until the black community show is capable of uniting with itself across social classes, education and religious lines, the abuse of black people will continue unabated. Internally,
 and externally. We must develop a more mature understanding of what it is a nation and what the responsibilities are for those living within. Brothers and sisters, we live in a global market, orientation, economics that is based upon adversity and competition. I tell you, black people understand that and learn to compete within that framework. We as a people will always come up
 are short and suffer abuse from the dominant country. The most successful community in the United States are those who understand this and use it to their advantage. The Jews, the Asians, the Arabs, and the Latino community of Rafa make heaven for themselves.
 And this is life on this earth today. Think about it, on earth as it is in heaven. While the black community have been made to believe that we must wait until we die and go to heaven before our labor on this life is rewarded, do we really know the history of why we have been trained to think like this?
 If heaven and hell are a condition of the mind on earth as it is in heaven, then surely the story below is a small example of living hell on earth. I'm going to take a page out of what past president John F. Kennedy stated, and I quote, Ask not what your country can do for you, but ask what you can do for your country.
 Thus, my quote say, and I say it to you, ask not what Transform Rockford can do for you, but what can you do to transform our community here in Rockford. We need to stop waiting on some other ethnic group to do for us when we can start doing things for ourselves. Coming up Thursday at 2 p.m. in North Main Manor, we have different guest speakers, and if I can finish up near the end here, I just want to mention there, there was a few other guests, but we have been on a tour at Rockford.
 We've been on a tour at Woodward Governor. We've been on a tour at Rockford University. We've been on a tour at Rockford Public Library. We are going to take RHA neighborhood networking and the renewal turning point to a whole new level. This is Black History Month, and we are going to have an all-out soul food dinner and free food to pass. I asked the media to come out and see what we're doing.
 the positive things that we are trying to do to fight against black on black crime and domestic violence. This is just not only we went out against crime, but we also want to talk about the positive things that we're doing. I just want to finish out by saying also next week on my birthday, Transform Rockets is going to have a community conversation about verbal, neighborhood, and planning for our future. Plus, you will be able to engage with individual, family, and the power to be.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Reverend Derek Shelby. Acts chapter 10. Acts chapter 10, verses 34 through 38. Then Peter opened his mouth and said of the truth, I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. In every nation he that fears him and worketh righteousness is accepted with him. The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ, is accepted with him.
 He is Lord of all. And that word I say ye know which was published throughout all Judea, and began from Galilee, after the baptism was John preached, how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil. For God was with him. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good,
 and healing all that were oppressed. I want to speak from the subject today. The chief is doing a good job, grinding down every quadrant of the city, the east side too, they shoot people over there. Hallelujah. Somebody shot somebody the other day over on the east side, which they tend to skew in the media. Hello. But the chief is doing a good job, excellent job. I've been, I'm 61 years old,
 And I've been in Rockford all my life and been the best chief and the mayor we ever had. Because most people in this city have been oppressing black people. First mayor and the first chief that's done any damn thing for the west side. And guess what? 30% of the people on the west side are white.
 30% of the people on the west side are white. The chief's doing a good job. Number one, God has no respect for a person. The Lord don't care nothing about that man being the mayor or the chief of the police union. He don't care nothing about your color. He don't care nothing about your bank account. He don't care nothing about your education. He cares about your relationship to Jesus. Jesus Christ is Lord of all.
 Everybody in this room is going to bow down to Jesus one day. Everybody in this room is going to bow down. Everybody on this planet bows down to Jesus. Everybody. Sheriff Gasparini died this week. Guess who he met? I hope he got in. But he met the Lord Jesus. He didn't meet no Muslim god or some Confucius god. He didn't meet Dr. King. And he went to heaven. He didn't meet the...
 Billy Graham, he's on his way to heaven. He met the Lord Jesus Christ because he the one died and shed his blood for our sins. The chief is doing a good job. Thank you. Thank you, Reverend Shelby, and thank you to our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications, Paul and Dirk.
 I have one item. It's from Jovita Donahue, Economic Development Administrator, Community and Economic Development Department. This is a proposed River Edge redevelopment zone boundary amendment in the 11th ward. This will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you. The amendment will be referred. Further petitions and communications, Old Mincharelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have a memorandum from Mark Roseland acquisition officer regarding an easement request from Rock River Water Regulation District for the Ingersoll project. I have a memorandum from Mark Roseland acquisition officer regarding the exchange of real estate properties at the southwest corner of North Main and Auburn Street with the Illinois Department of Transportation.
 I have the liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda and the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on February 18th 2015 and the minutes from that meetings and also the zoning board of appeals meeting for consideration at the codes and regulations committee meeting on February 23rd 2015.
 and I have the traffic commission minutes for the meeting held February 11, 2015. All those items will be referred, Your Honor, to the Codes and Regulations Committee. For the petitions and communications. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items tonight that will be referred to finance and personnel. The first is a memorandum from Seth Sommer, our building code official.
 and it is a special request from the owner of the Midway Theater for release of several liens that are against properties, one for $160,836.75, that was for the demolition of the old in-town motel. He wishes to obtain those lots and add on to Midway.
 The other is for some property at 733 East State. And another one is to vacate a fine that was imposed due to some code hearing issues. That would be referred to finance and personnel.
 The second is memorandum from Patrick Hayes, our legal director. This is referral to licensing agreement between Swedish American Foundation and the city of Rockford. And this is for the use of 1233 Revell as a community resource center.
 Third is the matter of the AFSCME C, that's the Head Start 2012 through 2016 collective bargaining agreement. This is for the parties executed final tentative agreement to resolve the outstanding issues for the 2012 to 2016 collective bargaining agreement. There are several negotiated items that are listed and that will be referred to committee.
 And the last is referral of an authorization to issue bonds to finance repairs to the concourse parking deck. And let's see, that will also go to finance and personnel. Thank you. That is being referred. Thank you. Your Honor. Alderman Shiller. I'm sorry, I have four more items I need to refer to the Codes and Regulations Committee.
 One is the Irish Marching Society St. Patrick's Day Parade being held on March 14, 2015. Second is the Unitarian Universalist Church Rummage Sale on March 27 through the 28th, 2015.
 The third is the Red Shoe Run for Donor Awareness, April 11, 2015. And the fourth is the Rockford City Market, May 22 through September 26 and October 16, 2015. Those four items, Your Honor, will be referred to the Codes and Regulations Committee. I just refer to thank you for the petitions and communications. Excuse me, new committee reports.
 I have one item, the proposed development agreement with McAbee Capital LLC for rehabilitation and redevelopment of the 134 North First Street with mixed use commercial uses consisting of office service area and retail uses. I think we're still in the manner of suspending rules on this. That is correct. Second.
 motion and second to spend the rules planning development committee report regarding Maccabee capital LLC for the rehabilitation redevelopment of 134 North 1st Street all those in favor spend the rules please signify by saying aye aye opposed no ayes have the rules be submitted thank you your honor then I place this up for passage that is up for
 Thank you, Mayor. I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports item Roman numeral 4, item A1, to reflect the following terms. The TIF assistance described herein to be paid by the city to the grantee, totaling $249,000, to be paid to the grantee in the increments as follows.
 $75,000 will be paid to the grantee when 50% of the construction is completed, which includes window completion. $174,000 will be paid to the grantee when the project is substantially completed. So this is going to be a proposed amendment.
 The motion to amend the item would include the following changes to the TIF terms. The support of $249,000 would be issued $75,000 and 50% completion and $174,000 after substantial completion. Did I get that right? So there's been a motion and a second to amend in that manner. Is there discussion?
 I guess sort of a twofold question, not that I'm not in favor of the project, but when we developed our TIF policy, my understanding was that going forward, all of the TIFs were pay as you go. And the second that leads into that, what exactly is the funding source if there's not sufficient funds in the TIF?
 And how often are we going to do this? Because now we're doing it for a second and third time. We're taking money from some other source, general fund or whatever, to fund TIFs. So we're not bonding, but we're still taking money from other sources. So what exactly is the policy going to be on TIFs going forward? Because it seems like we just inked it. So let's address the TIF policy.
 Thank you, Your Honor. As it relates to the adopted TIF policy, it does recommend pay as you go, not to provide TIF financing. And I answered you in a call like this within our policy statement review of the staff report. As it relates to the particular funds, in this circumstance, I defer to Director Black to answer that question. Director Black? Yeah. So in terms of...
 Thank you, Mayor. In terms of the East River TIF, we do have a negative fund balance. We actually have a positive fund balance as of 2015, about $104,500. And then in 2016, there were plans to transfer funds that were received.
 that received the prior year from the TIF, by decreasing those transfers there would be funds available over a multi-year period to repay, to actually pay out the incentives. The increment that's currently being generated in that TIF is about $140,000.
 we should be, we will be positive in terms of when we make those payments and that type. So where's the money being taken from in the meantime? If we're going to make these two payments or three payments, is not as relevant to me as where is it coming from? Judge, apply.
 Right now there's $104,000 in the TIF and then we'll have an increment the following year of about $140,000 and approximately that amount going forward. So there should be an appropriate amount from cash flow purposes from the East River TIF. Okay, so the money is coming from the TIF, not from the general fund or from some other city fund? Correct. Okay. Other questions? No.
 hearing none all those in favor of the proposed amendment please signify by saying aye aye opposed no so the item has been amended any further discussion on the amended item hearing none clerk please call the roll on the amended item Durkee aye Getschus aye McNam frost aye Hervey aye Hill aye Thompson Kelly aye Odo aye Newberg aye Beach aye Allee aye McNeeley aye
 Charlie 13 and better as they further reports on the trailer thank you your honor new committee reports we won amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances section 3-5 classification of liquor license I move to hold that over two weeks your honor thank you
 motion and second to hold the matter over for two weeks I guess this is the matter of council procedure generally there's no objection if the committee chair wants to hold up the matter we can just do it without having to take a vote and since our schedule allows on every other basis it will automatically hold over until the next meeting which may take place very good thank you your honor
 under item number two is the amendment to the code of ordinances chapter two all the different articles bottom line here appointments of the chief of the police and fire departments your honor I move to refer that back to the codes and regulations committee is there a second second a motion second to refer item two under codes and regulations committee dealing with the appointments of the chief of police and fire departments back to committee
 All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee, Getschus, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Hill, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Shirely. Aye.
 5 ayes, 8 no, Your Honor. Motion fails. The matter remains before the council. That's very good. I'll move on to item number 3. Is the amendment to Ordinance 2014-163-0, Groundwater Ordinance Reform or TAPCO Site at 502 South Main Street. Item number 4 is the approval of the EEOC Conciliation Agreement regarding Watkins v. City of Rockford.
 charge number 440-210-03556. Number five is reversing to deny the Traffic Commission recommendation to approve a request to establish 47 permanent parking spaces in Municipal Lot Two near the intersection of Madison Street and Walnut Street. The committee recommends taking no action. Your Honor, I place those up for passes. I'm sorry, make a move to suspend the rules.
 99 certainly so that emotions I can spend the rules items 2 3 4 and 5 under code regulations committee for me I was a favorite spent closely signify by saying I I post no I said through the perspective places like those items up for passage and there are passages there discussion
 So we'll take items 2, 3, and 4 first. Any discussion on those items? Two would be whether we move the police and fire commission and take over in council of that. Is that what number two is all about? We're just talking about the reappointment. Mr. Hayes, can you explain that? Yes, the matter that passed out of committee would –
 provide that the chiefs of the police and the fire department would be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council and that would take effect immediately there's some directory language regarding the immediate impact of that on the matters pending at the board of fire and police commission presently against chief everson yes may i finish your honor when i was faced with making the decision regarding changing the policy
 a long-standing part of many city systems like the Police and Fire Commission. I knew I needed to find out why the system was originally put into place. I discovered that Police Chief Borgson, that's right, the police chief, was instrumental in getting the legislation passed to form the Police and Fire Commission.
 The purpose was to give the police department the protection of a civil service commission. The law was adopted in 1903 and Rockford was among the first cities to adopt it. We have a system that has been in place for over 110 years. It is a system that ensures that everyone has a right to be heard and to ensure that justice is served without bias and based only on evidence.
 Some may ask if there is an opportunity to save money or time in dealing with disciplinary actions directly as a counsel. If we abolish this system, we may just open ourselves up to more time consuming and expensive process of arbitration or worse yet other legal actions. The system was put into place to remove politics or bias from the process.
 I don't believe I was elected by my constituents to make decisions on matters such as these. One of the things that I struggle with the most is the timing of this decision. Are we deciding to change a system that has been in place and working for over 110 years?
 Or are we simply trying to interfere in a process that is going on now? I would simply ask all of you to ask yourselves, why make this change? And more importantly, why now? Thank you for the discussion.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I guess my take is a little bit different. I actually thought back just before Chief Epperson was appointed that the city council had taken back the authority to hire, manage, discipline, and terminate its police and fire chiefs because there was a little bit of confusion, to put it mildly, with that prior appointment.
 Police and Fire accounts for what, 75% of our city budget? They are the two most important functions that we have as a city. I don't understand the lack of accountability of elected leadership making those decisions.
 I've watched elected leadership in the state of Illinois divest itself of accountability for many years. The excuse is it's a contractual matter, and right now with police and fire, our contracts cover all of the issues just about relating to rank and file, and they're decided by a third-party arbitrator who doesn't live in this community.
 I understand that the fire and police commission is appointed by the mayor and they are people that have to live in the community, but this city council takes no accountability for any of those actions. And that's the part that I've talked with more people about when they said, why do you take the position that you do? I don't want to run from accountability.
 I don't think I have to be political or it's a foregone conclusion that I can't make a fair decision because I'm an elected official. I have more of a problem with the fact that we have absolutely no authority over 75 to 80 percent of our budget as a city leadership. The fact that it works okay is probably a testament to the people who sit in those seats.
 And sometimes it does work okay. But I watched a school district that gave away its authority to send teachers where they're needed the most. I've watched as third-party arbitrators decide that people can steal from the city and still can't be fired.
 and I've watched decisions that affect the budget of our city in horrific ways and we have no accountability and no authority or say so over that. So my position has to do with acceptance of accountability for those positions and for managing those positions and not having it vested in
 three people who weren't elected by anyone and who report to no one within the city. So that's what my position is because probably 50 or 80 people called me to ask about it. It has nothing to do with the current issues that are going on. But I also believe that it points to a problem.
 If people wanted to, they could tie our fire and police chiefs up every single day by simply bringing another complaint. And we could be at hearings from now until eternity. I have always believed that union members' rights lie in the contract. And if that's the case, I can't understand why.
 a union has the authority to ask for one of our appointed officials to be fired and to drag us through hearings for days on end because, by the way, when this one ends, they can turn around and do it again tomorrow on any charge that they see fit.
 And I have just a huge problem with putting ourselves in that position. And this is just about the first time that it's ever occurred and I can almost guarantee that it's going to go on forever. So for all the folks who wanted to know, that's my position and that's why I still hold it today. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak I agree with a little bit of both what other men heard he said and other men photo stated I think to me it has my thought process I've been trying to kind of separate our current chief our current mayor current union president take them totally out of it and just look at this from a policy standpoint for the city today and in the future.
 What I've come up with is in the short term, I think it's harmful to the city and in the long term, I think it's harmful to the city. I think in the short term, we do have a process in place. You know, within the last 90 days, we just appointed one of those people to be one of the judges during this process. I think we need to...
 respect the body that the mayor has appointed and that we have approved. I think we need to respect the process that has been in place for over 100 years, and we haven't had this coming up continually. And most importantly, I think we also need to respect the time, the commitment, the energy that the police and fire commissioners are giving to our city. In the long term, I think this is poor policy because I think you're politicizing two of the most important issues
 people in our city, the police and fire chief. I don't think they should be worrying about politics as much as they should be worrying about public safety. And I think by doing this, we certainly make them consider politics far more than we need to. I also think this would hurt our candidate pool in the future if you take a scenario, let's say six months down the road, our chief decides to resign.
 Well then if this passes, the mayor's going to take some time to have a thoughtful deliberation and choose who he would like to pick. And then at that point, we have what, 12 to 16 months before the next election. Are we really going to get the most qualified candidates who want to take that job knowing that the person that hires, fires, and disciplines them is going to be up for election?
 I don't know if we get the most qualified candidates. I think with an independent body that we have today, we get the most qualified candidates. And I think it shows by the people that we have in place. I think if you look at, I think bodies,
 or they benefit from consistent quality leadership. We were told to look at what other large municipalities are doing and that they're all moving to this model or have for years. Well, let's look at them. For fire chiefs, for example, Springfield averages 2.7 years for their fire chief. Think that's good for their employees? Think that's good for their city?
 Peoria every four years, Joliet every five years. These aren't good stats. We're, by the way, on our 10th chief for the fire department since 1890. I think that commission is doing a good job. I also think under this,
 We get yes men and women as chiefs. If they have to answer to one person or one body and make it political, we get yes men and women as chiefs. And I want thoughtful, independent leaders. And I like the way that we're doing it. I'd urge everyone else to consider this policy in the long term without us being in these seats, without current people being in their seats. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. A few weeks ago, we passed
 rules to change how we govern ourselves here. Council meetings every other week, committees every other week. And we took weeks to study the issue. Some of us traveled to other communities to look at it, to see the good and the bad of it before we came here. We debated it here for a long time. And that's good. That was good. When we came down to the vote, it wasn't necessarily everybody was really happy about it. We said we didn't talk about it to the point we want to give it a try. And we are trying here. And so the fact that you've entertained
 a new idea, I think is all right. And I think a discussion ought to be had at some point in time, but not now. We've got a process in place. That's why I would absolutely be opposed to moving forward with it until this process is done. After that, if you want to entertain a discussion, in my opinion, as to what we should do, how it applies, to whom it applies, then I think that's fair. We can talk about it and think about it a
 appreciate the comments from all McNamara festival same stance far as the length of time the officials serve I don't think that's in the best interest either but that's the simple it is your honor how I feel about it and I think what I want to know you ought to be knowing why I'm doing that thank you thank you thank you for allowing me to speak
 Do you agree with Alderman McNamara and Alderman Beach? I was watching the news and reading an article about St. Louis, Missouri, and their city council has control over police and fire. However, there's one particular councilwoman who is looking to have a fire, a policeman fired, all because he arrested her son. Now, to me, that's getting a little too close.
 We don't need that. And I'm not worried about council now. I'm worried about future councils. And quite frankly, that's a big endeavor to take on. And I don't know if I, and I truly don't want that responsibility. We talk about transparency, and I think that this is the only way to get a fair and impartial transparency regarding police and fire is by having that third party.
 I have fielded, and I kid you not, 200 phone calls from last Monday until this morning with the general public, our taxpaying people, who say stop. Stop getting involved, stop making it a political thing because that's what it will become, and that they want to have transparency. They want to let it go, see where it goes.
 they want answers and I believe if we're going to keep going with the model of excellence everywhere and transparency we need to just stop allow the police and fire commission to stay in place and do what they were put in to do by all of us thank you for the discussion I'd like to make a short statement in response to this question since I'm at my point and
 I look forward to subpoenaing the matter. I look forward to testifying this week when it actually takes place. My support for that, for us taking it back, has a lot to do with what Oliver and Herbie said. At the end of the day, when you sit in my spot, you've been through the last ten years of challenges that we've had. It was one of the state's highest crime rate, with ongoing battles with the police union to try to make transformative changes within the organization.
 to suggest that there's a way to free ourselves from the politics of running a police department. In today's day and age, it's here. We're going to deal with it, but I haven't been able to deal with it. I look forward, actually, to the hearing, if for nothing else, to try to clear the air and correct the record from my standpoint so that the chief doesn't have to stand in front of the commissioners and the community and fight a battle that's really wasted for 10 years. I'm proud to have done it. I'm tired of this plan I've been in tonight. I would do so proudly now.
 I'm going to try my very best to try to support that chief to do his job to keep our community safe. I, for one, I'm going to have my family, my four children, sleep safe right now because that chief is our chief. I can point to the record of success supporting better relationships with our people and better reduction in crime is a testament. So I look forward to hearing it. Certainly not afraid of it. What I was told we could do is try to avoid having to
 Pulling the scab off of a lot of things that have occurred over the last ten years that have personally affected my family, affected a lot of us. So I just want to finally say that whatever happens tonight, I'm very committed to completing the hearing and then working through the reconciliation process. At the end of the day, all of that, so we're all in this together, I think it's fair to say, there's no telling what would happen in any given luncheon cycle.
 That's part of the miracle, the great gift of democracy. But at the end of the day, if the election is over, we have to stand. Whoever stands in our position has to try to do what we can. It's not likely to affect the chiefs that are sitting here today, and I think a lot of troubles remain. But it is going to affect some other process down the road, and we just have to live with whatever we make. There's certainly different ways to do it, but ultimately it's our responsibility. All good times are coming.
 First, I'd like a point of clarification. What was read into us, the amendment of the cold ordinances, chapter 2, and all the articles that we have here, is this including the last paragraph that we received last week that was read in to where we will cease the police and fire commission's actions on the hearings?
 This is just to change the process of the police fire and chief. Am I understanding that correctly? Mr. Huston. Staff presented a single item which is incorporated in the committee report and the draft ordinance that was distributed is all complete with all of those ideas. Certainly it's up to the alderman whether it all passes as a package or not.
 but I was presented as a single package with all of those ideas including the one you described regarding the immediate impact on the hearing pending all of that material is before the council for consideration and could you tell me what section and article and chapter it is that would identify for the fire and police commission to cease the hearings in action the um the ordinance on on the appointments of the chief
 would the actual code ordinances wouldn't be a wouldn't include that language the statement of urgency that is in the ordinance that they've been distributed has that material and that's a directive from the city council if the city council wants the ordinance to take effect immediately the idea would be the idea is presented was
 They would immediately then, on passage of that ordinance, pass resolutions appointing the two chiefs retroactive to their original appointments. In the entirety then, the appointing authority for each of those chiefs for their entire tenure of the city becomes the City of Rockford and the city would then direct the board to refer the matter to the city apparatus, the mayor and the city council for consideration of action. That's a device that was presented.
 the reason why I question the way it's written and presented to us is in your comments that I support the move of the chief fire chief of police being appointed by the city council I've sent through a few chiefs for fire and police myself but here's where I'm concerned
 possible that we can vote on the make an amendment to vote on the that we appoint the chief of fire chief of police by the city council with the city council's approval but in yet continue the hearings with the police and fire commission because it's almost at the end of it
 I don't know what to amend because I don't know which one it is. Mr. Hayes, do you provide some guidance to execute a problem in terms of Kelly suggesting, in other words, make it effective after the conclusion of the hearing? Is that what you're trying to do? And that the Police and Fire Commission complete their hearing process and come back to this council with their recommendation. He's looking. Okay. Thank you.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly I don't understand at what point in the process you would have the council direct the board to refer the matter to the city council is it after the probable cause determination which is the present hearing or upon conclusion of the matter and for what purpose as it stands now under there is no referral back to the city
 so you would be altering that or leaving this matter to be resolved entirely by the board and then take it then have the ordinance take effect I just don't understand at what point would we I guess what I'm asking I probably won't get it but what I'm asking is that we go ahead and vote on the two positions as far as our fire and our police and I think
 but make an amendment to the proposal that I'm understanding was grouped together to let the commissioners continue the process of the hearings. And then we do have the legal authority to listen to their recommendations and take action or no action. That makes sense. Did he ask our parliamentarian to see if he's got any thoughts on how that can be tried effectually? Just a thought that I have.
 Your Honor, while we're waiting on that, can we go on to Item 5? I did separate it. As long as there's no objection, we'll take Item 5 and then we'll come back. Thank you. And I yield to all of them back to the Mayor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm Thomas Kelly. I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports item Roman numeral 4, item B5 to reflect the following terms. The Traffic Commission recommendation would be approved to establish 47 permanent parking spaces at Municipal Lot 2 for a period of no more than two years to sunset at January 31, 2017. So it's been a motion and a second to amend the committee report. Thank you.
 And our new committee reports on the Road 4 and V5 reflect the following that the Traffic Commission recommendation would establish 47 permanent parking spaces in Esmolante for a period of two years. The sunset, January 31st, 2017. It's been moved and seconded. Is there discussion of that proposed amendment? Alderman, you have your story. Yes, Your Honor. Just to be clear, so Alderman McNamara has just made a motion which essentially puts a sunset clause on this.
 And it gets a little bit confusing when we have something presented to us in negative language. I'm of the opinion that a no vote on this is really yes, because this is saying we are going to deny what's in front of us. So if we choose to not deny, that will be approving. So my recommendation is we consider a no vote, a yes vote. If we receive the right number of no votes, then it will pass. Or we have to change the language to say approve. What is it? No.
 I'm going to try to simplify it as much as I can. Rather than using that for a language, what I'm going to say is that the amendment actually would do away with the language that exists currently. The amendment would essentially just be saying it would approve a two-year amendment for the 47 permits.
 I'm fine with that as long as everybody's okay. So that would essentially eliminate the current language and replace it with that language so that we're voting the positive which I'm sure your concerns about voting negative about positive language or the positive about negative. So you know that the proposed language eliminate what would be in the currently report and replace it with essentially an approval of a two year period for 47 permits in that law.
 Any other discussion on that? I'm just curious if those spots would be available for night and weekend parking. Let's take that, is that Director Hanson? That is correct. So I'm assuming these permanent spots are being done to support some economic growth? That is correct. Any other questions? There was another hand that I thought was up. Thank you, sir. Okay, so we are going to vote on an amendment.
 and then we will vote on the ordinance. So I'll vote Alderman Getchell confused me. Sorry. So. Getchell? Getchell. Yes, Getchell. Thank you. Sorry, Getchell. No. No, I hear what you're saying. Just to clarify it again, all of Newburgh and for everybody's benefit, essentially the entire thing would be replaced with the language that would establish 47 parking spaces for a two-year period.
 Thank you. So voting for that language and that amendment would establish a permit, 47 permits for two years. A moment, Tops, Kelly, is your hand up? No. Okay, I'm sorry. Any other comments on that amendment? All those in favor of the proposed amendment to that item please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. So the amended item now is up for passage. Is there any additional discussion?
 So we're just voting on five, correct? So under rule number four, B, five, that's up for passage, and that would, a positive vote on that would approve a two-year, four-to-seven permits available for municipal items you have for a period of two years. Without any further discussion on that, clerk, please call the roll.
 Durkee I get just I think the man I'm not her being Hill I'm Thompson Kelly I'm photo I'm Newberg I'm each other L.A. I'm McNeely surely 13 I turn that's perfect 2 3 and 4 from the table so I don't know I'm 23 and 4 are up for discussion we actually think
 Somebody want to get a note for us? Thank you. With respect to item number two, I, like all in Minota, did receive quite a few phone calls and emails in the last week about this particular proposed ordinance. And I think that's good. I think it shows that people in our community are stakeholders, they're concerned, not just about Rockford today, but for Rockford in the future. And I had a chance to speak to many,
 folks about their opinions, because at first I didn't know whether or not I was just getting people calling me that had an agenda or not. But as the calls kept coming in, it was clear that people didn't have an agenda about our mayor, about either one of our chiefs. We seemed to always focus on one.
 and leaves Chief Berks to do it, but he's also a part of this process. And they really are concerned about the, I think the most important issue is, is just why are we doing it today? What, the timing involved. And as Osman Beach so eloquently said, we spent a whole lot of time and months around this rail talking about changing our process if we're just having our meetings on a different night. Here we're talking about changing a process
 a policy in a 100-year-old tradition of way that we do, in fact, govern. And although, yes, the other cities have done it, if we want to look at studying that in the future, as Alderman Beach said, I think that it's worthy of a discussion and it's worthy of looking into what makes the best sense for Rockford and for our people in Rockford and for our city council and for our chiefs.
 With respect to some of the comments that the mayor said, I agree. I'm sure Mayor Morrissey welcomes it. I don't believe his intent was, you can correct me if I'm wrong, was to skirt a process or walk away from a battle or be afraid of having to be subpoenaed and testify. I'm sure the mayor will do a fine job at that and I'm sure he does welcome the opportunity. But more importantly what the mayor said is that he's proud of his chief.
 He's proud of the process. He's proud that it's better for Rockford, for all of our residents. I'd like the Mayor to stand on that. That's true.
 We're not naive enough. The politics are going to come and go. The politics come with the appointment, the operation of many department heads, and the chiefs are no different in that sense. But right now, the process that exists is the process I think we have to respect and honor and let it run its course. And if we want to talk about changing that, as Alderman Thompson-Kelley just alluded, can we make an amendment on this? I think we can talk about that at a future date, but I just don't think
 tonight is the right time to try to muddy the waters. I am proud of our chiefs. I think they have very tough jobs and I wouldn't want either one of them. But
 They have been, as Alderman McNamara mentioned, fairly apolitical over our course in history. We've had a long history of having chiefs. We don't have a system in place right now where every time there's a new mayor, we see these two folks come and go, and I think that says something for our city as opposed to other municipalities throughout the state, throughout the region, throughout the country,
 Chiefs come and go at the Mayor's whim. And I know the Mayor added in Section 2-53 the ability to only remove a Chief
 except for cause. That's something worthwhile that should be noted that was added to this amendment. But again, that could perhaps maybe cause a problem down the road. Then we're going to get more lawyers involved in what is caused versus at-will employees. Again, I'm just concerned about going forward with this and opening up new cans of worms, causing
 a longer length of time in which something gets decided, the right to appeal, further litigation, which, ironically, as a lawyer I should be in support of, but I'm not. I don't think we need any further litigation on this particular issue in front of the
 the Commission, which I think is separate from this ordinance in its entirety. So I think if we want to have a discussion down the road on changing processes so we can, I just think right now the timing isn't ripe right now. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I do believe that at this point,
 the way our system is set up that's the way the 14 of us were elected that wasn't part of our quote unquote campaign i do not want to see the chief of police and the chief of fire chief become a political type position i am i also feel this is not the time to be voting on this type of a thing i feel
 Later on, if it wants to be decided, some of us feel one way, some of us feel another. It's for discussion in the future. But at this point, I do not feel that we should be undermining the three people that the mayor, that you have appointed to his position and had trust in and thought they could make a decision. So I would like to, I'm saying I am against this vote, and I would have to vote against it.
 Thank you for the discussion. All the best. McNeil. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I certainly appreciate everything that I've heard from my colleagues tonight. And I stand to say that I'm proud of our police chief, our fire chief, our policemen, policewomen, and all the firefighters. There's no one in the police or fire department that I would not uplift.
 And there's no one in the police or fire department that's above scrutiny, regardless of how the administration is set up. So I stand to uplift the police officers, the police chief, and the fire chief, as well as the fire fighters. That's what we should be looking at, and that's what we should be concentrating on. And we certainly, I agree with,
 my colleagues that this is not the time to change the legislation. But I do want everyone to understand that the police union has a right to scrutinize. If it's not legal what they're doing, it will come out. If it's legal what they're doing, then that will come out.
 I would hate to see the police chief have to leave or resign. I would like for him to stay on, but we can't, I can't sit here and listen to people defend one and not the other when we're representing, they're representing all of us and we're representing all of them. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, I'll call for passage in items 2, 3, and 4 on a roll number 4B.
 Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? No, I'm two. Getches? No, I'm two. I am three and four. McNamara? Frost? Hervey? Hill? No, I'm two. Thompson-Kelley? Odo? No, I'm two. I am three and four. Newberg? No, I'm two. I am the remainder. Beach? No, I'm two and four. I am three. Elliott? McNeely? No, I'm two and four. I am three.
 Shirley? No, I'm 2. I'm in the remainder. Okay. Roman numeral 4B3, 13 ayes, 0 no. Roman numeral 4B4, 8 ayes, 5 no. Roman numeral 4B2, 2 ayes, 11 no.
 So 4B2 fails, 4B3 and 4S. Yes, sir. Further committee reports? I'd like that motion to reconsider. Number two, please. Second. There's been a motion to second reconsider item 2, I'm sorry, 4B2. Is there a motion to reconsider? If there are none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? No. Gutches? No. McNamara? Aye.
 Frost, Hervey, Hill, Thompson, Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elia, McNeely. What are we voting on? Whether to reconsider row number 4B2. 4B2? No. Ciavelli? No. Five, Ising, Noyan. The matter will not be reconsidered.
 Mr. Mayor, may I please have the tally on two? The last on the motion reconsidered. The first, please. Pardon me? The first, please. I'm sorry. The first vote was in the late 12th. It was 11. 11-2. 11-2. Thank you very much. Thank you. All in favor? Do you have the finance and personnel for the vote? Yes.
 We have three items tonight under Roman numeral IV-C. Item 1 is an addendum to the Mutual Aid Box Alarm System Agreement.
 item two is a fine reduction request this is for the property located at 16 oh i'm sorry 1106 and 1108 21st street reducing it to one thousand dollars upon compliance with the original order to repair the work would have to be completed by july 1 of 2015 and any outstanding water demolition board up clean up and mowing lanes would have to be paid and
 and item 3 vouchers in the amount of $3,866,869.75 as approved by finance and personnel at the February 9, 2015 meeting and those three items are up for passage. Thank you, up for passage under article 4C123, that is up for passage as a discussion.
 I'm not sure I know what a mutual aid box alarm system is and where it's going to be. Let's take that if you mercy.
 This is an agreement that puts us in alliance with FEMA's new policy for reimbursement any time our group is dispatched outside the state or to another municipality in the state of Illinois that we can get federal reimbursement if there's a disaster declaration. This is just a formality to align some of the new agreements. Thank you very much. I can't hear further discussion. If you're not clear, please go over there.
 Durkee? Aye. Getchis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Hill? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Beach? Aye. Elliott? McNeely? Aye. Ciavelli? Aye. 12, I surrender. The bill is passed. Thank you. Are there reports, committees? Do you want to do reports? No.
 Just a couple items to report on this evening. First, I will be traveling to Springfield tomorrow. The governor will be giving his budget address. Early comments coming out of the media today is the notion that we are to expect hearing tough medicine from the governor. One of the issues that I'll be looking to hear some specifics about has to do with proposals that have been kicked around about impact to the local government distributed fund.
 Just as a reminder when it comes to the operations of our organization, if the cuts are proposed and come through the local government distributed fund, this is about between the corporate replacement tax and income tax, it's approximately $18 million. That goes into our general fund every year. One of the proposals could see that I've been hearing about is a potential cut of up to
 to local municipalities in that fund. So for us, that would be a cut of approximately $9 million. And that could occur in the middle of our budget year, depending on how they were to impact it, which could look at significant potential layoffs, potential cuts in services. Since we are operating under minimum manning in our fire department, this would be
 financially not feasible for us to make cuts to fire. So the other, without actually costing us more, so the budget absorption with that kind of hit would have to occur to the rest of our operations, police, public works, et cetera. So we look forward to hearing, and hopefully that will come up as a suggestion way for the state to manage its budget by cutting its resources that it has historically shared with us, but it's something that we'll be keeping an eye on, I'll be keeping an eye on
 By the purpose of my
 This to Springfield, however, tomorrow is just coinciding coincidentally with the budget address. I'll be having conversations with Department of Transportation officials regarding the Amtrak proposal. We certainly want to make sure that funding comes through and I'll also be listening to that with regard to Amtrak service connecting McKendree County, Boone County and Winnebago and Rockford as well as Belvedere along that line from Elgin along the UP Rail line.
 It's something that we have to continue to advocate for and I appreciate the local chamber of commerce and other partners in our community continuing to help us advocate for that. It's something we still have to make sure we push hard. Finally, there's a memorandum from Chief Epperson outlining some of the changes that operationally we've now moved forward on with regard to geo-policing.
 to continue to move forward on this pledge that we've made to operate the organization with geo-policing in mind. If you have questions on the memorandum, please feel free to follow up with myself or Chief Emerson. Further officer's reports, all in the terms of county. First of all, I'd like to thank the Rockford Area Minority Management for the RAM banquet this last Friday. It was really a wonderful event.
 I don't get very excited over a good-looking man, but I tell you, that keynote speaker really made me think about things. But I have a question, and I'd like to speak about we just received this evening an agenda for facilitating conversation on housing in neighborhoods. I truly have a concern about this and truly have a concern about the topics.
 and not knowing the panel that's going to be discussing these issues to take up two days of time to go over these matters I I will not sit for two days and listen to the housing authority tell me how they're going to just be just a private community so I'd like more information before I commit to two days of my time in city with the housing authority
 whatever you want to call themselves thank you thank you and i would just encourage any additional information about that mr kentononi has been working on the housing story with jillian melvin does from a communication standpoint should i put that together as well as getting information um the best practices uh information available to the consultant that we've worked with in the update to our consolidated plan so i just encourage any questions about that
 sure we have an opportunity to tell you have a broad based discussion about housing housing policies for dirt yeah just a dovetail on alderman Thompson Kelly's remarks I didn't quite catch all of it because I was reading this it is pretty short notice for those of us who were to let us know week ahead of time that this is happening so if we're gonna have
 true involvement, I think some longer term notice or something would be in order. Thank you for the discussion. Thank you, Your Honor. A big issue that's been before the city has been talked about a lot in local news media. I've heard a lot from my constituents on. It's a very important issue of the MRO at the airport.
 It's an issue that, from every conversation I've had with all my colleagues, with my counterparts on the accounting board, that everybody is in favor of. There's been a few points that have been made, unfortunately, in the past couple weeks in local media. I think I'd like to clear up just for the general public how our process works. This deal has, in fact, been worked out over the course of two and a half years. It started since before I was in Alderman.
 It's one of many very large deals that have come to fruition in my two years on the council, which I'm very excited about. When the deals finally come through, your local officials, both on the city and the county, who have been very supportive, like we all are, a very big part of our jobs is to take a look at what's in writing in front of us. This deal has been worked out over the course of two and a half years.
 What is actually in writing and we're voting on has been in front of us for about a week and a half. Many of us are asking very good questions. That's what we do. That's what our job is. I bring the perspective of somebody who reads nuclear regulations for a living. That's why you see me nitpicking all the rules. You have Alderman Hervey who will ask about the funding source of every dime of government money that's being obligated.
 Everybody brings in their backgrounds, their experiences. That's one of the strengths of our system of government. We're doing it, the county's doing it. It doesn't mean that we're not in favor of the project. I'm disappointed to read that there are those who feel like they don't want to sit down and answer our questions. To them I would say, talk to Mr. Black.
 How many questions before we vote on a budget does he answer again and again and again until we are all comfortable with our votes? We ask those questions because it's our job. When we vote yes or no, we understand. And a good public servant like Chris Black answers those questions, no matter how repetitive. And that's part of the process. And I'm a little bit disappointed to hear that criticized in the media.
 Do I think that this will pass? I think it can, I think it should. Do I think that we're doing our jobs by asking tough questions and making sure that what we're signing the citizens of this city up for for 20 years is exactly what we think it is? All right, because there's a lot of details in everything that gets put in front of us that we have to consider. And long after I'm sitting in this seat,
 10 years from now, 15 years from now, if there's a dispute, if there's a question, if there's litigation, they're not going to go back to, hey Jamie, you remember what so and so said back in 2015? They're going to look at that document that we all have signed on. So that's what your public officials are doing for you. And they're doing it with great support from city and county staff.
 So I do ask for a little bit of patience and I do ask that you consider that as we're asking these questions, that it doesn't mean we're supportive of the project. We're just making sure that this deal is actually the way it's advertised, that we can afford it and we're in a good position to move forward.
 And with that being said, there has been a lot of discussions between those of us on the City Council and on the County Board as we're moving forward. The two bodies truly are, through phone calls and emails, working together to make sure we can reach passage. I asked the City Attorney on behalf of, I had the opportunity to talk to 12 of my colleagues, I apologize for not being able to get to the 13. We are asking to convene a special City Council meeting next Monday.
 So what we'll do is we'll convene, we'll hold the Planning and Development Committee meeting, we will discuss the agreement for the airport, assuming that everything's worked out and it's ready to be in front of us. We're going to put that, once that meeting is done, if the agreement's ready to get voted out of committee, this will allow us to convene a meeting with the city council.
 and vote for approval. So if it's ready to go, we can meet as a city council, we can approve it, and the county can take up the matter on Thursday.
 If there's still questions, if there's still discussion, as with we've had some conversations with the airport, and we have to wait until March 2nd to pass it, that's fine too. So we've asked for this special meeting. It will be put out on our notice and agenda, and hopefully we'll have a deal that's ready to go. If it needs another week to make sure that we get it right,
 then it'll take another week to make sure we get it right. From our discussions with the airport, that'll still fit within their timeline. I do think it's unfortunate that...
 There's been a lot of heat going back and forth in the media. I can appreciate that because this is a very important deal to our region, but please do realize that your representatives just truly are working hard to do our best for you and making sure that what we're signing you up for for the next two decades is in fact what you think it is.
 speaking your honor over the last couple of weeks I've received phone calls regarding businesses and property owners that are not shoveling I know that director Hanson took care of a couple of those businesses and last year I asked that we put in something to have odd even parking irregardless of the amount of snow
 from, you know, let's say November 1st all the way to April 1st. And I know that Alderman Beach put in that we enforce our shoveling ordinance. I have a lot of parents that have called me complaining because the kids have to walk in the street. People who have to take public transportation have to walk in the street. What everybody has to understand is that our streets get narrower.
 when we plow. And it leaves room for kids to get hit, for adults that are walking to get hit. More importantly, when you have cars then that are parking on either side after plowing, our emergency vehicles have issues getting through.
 Now I know I don't want to have to have the fire department delayed because they can't get through or the police to get delayed because they can't get through to my house. So I'm asking that, you know, we revisit it since seriously for next year and irregardless we put it through because it seems that nobody knows when an inch of snow is coming because they're too busy for social media or the news and then it's a shock.
 So can we seriously get this done for next summer or next winter? That we do the odd evening here regardless. And that we actually enforce snow shoveling. Because I know every citizen in Rockford got from the post office, if your walk is not shoveled you don't get your mail. They're not delivering it. So what are we waiting for?
 Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to say thank you to Jim Ryan. He's not here, so I want to thank him for the list of board appointments that he put together in short notice, as well as Director Hayes.
 Also, I want to point out that in this morning's paper, Walgreens is asking for a tax abatement or I guess reassessment of their taxes to the tune of $103,000 to our coffers. Just recently in 2014, they had a 29% share increase and their most recent quarter had $809 million of profit.
 I would, I want to thank you. I know you sent staff over there to monitor it. I want to say we should be doing everything we can to stop some of these protests because this is just absurd. I mean, if you look at what we charge them for taxes compared to other municipalities, it isn't higher. And in many areas, it's far less. And our assessments need a total overhaul. So if there's anything we can do as a body to educate the Winnebago County Assessor Committee
 company as part of that because I think something needs to be done otherwise we're going to continue to fall further behind and folks that are watching today are going to be paying more and more property taxes to make up for folks like Walgreens. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion, Olimpia Nellie. Thank you, Alderman McNamara, for reminding me about the Walgreens thing. I was really disappointed to hear that as well and looked back over.
 that we passed packaged liquor for them in August for most of their stores. So I'm sure that that increased their revenue as well, and I actually voted for that against my better judgment because usually I don't like to have more packaged liquor in my ward. And then I crossed my mind, I wondered if we could, when we do something like that in the future, put something in there that they would not
 contest their property taxes if we did allow a package liquor question for the attorney. Mr. Hayes, I don't know if you'd rather do some research to look into it, but the question is whether or not we can condition a liquor sales license with the tax protest prohibition like we do with the TIF agreement.
 any thoughts on that now or some research the issue is whether the denial of a liquor permit on refusal to participate in that or refusal to abide by that would be supported under Illinois law and I would need to commit some research to whether that would be beyond the limits of the municipal authority on it so we'll do some research on it I think it's a good question
 all the gadgets. Thank you. I just had one more question, Your Honor, for the MRO deal. There's been some, a few aldermen would just like to see a copy of the agreement between the airport and AAR as background to make our decision. So if that document exists, we can forward it out to the council. I'd appreciate it. Talking about the lease agreement? Yes. And I will ask Mr. Hayes to look and see if we've got a copy of the lease agreement. Thank you.
 further officers reports motions and resolutions thank you honor I have one item under A1 sell your suede products inc a three year property tax abatement on the city portion of property taxes collected for the property located at 1515 Elmwood Road place that up for passage
 Thank you for passage is the planning development made a resolution regarding three-year property tax abatement the city portion of the property tax collected for the property at 1515 Elmwood Road. Is there discussion? If there are none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Gettys? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Voss? Hervey? Hill? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Hellyer? Aye.
 really surely 13 I'm gonna pass this thank you for the motions and resolutions all the children I have none on B 1 and 2 were taking care of with the I think we need to attorney he's recommended that I just there is nothing
 Okay. Mr. Hayes? I'm sorry, Your Honor. So under motions and resolutions of the agenda. Your Honor, I think it would be appropriate given the outcome because those were tied to that other item that as it's failed it should just be taken along with the call. Thank you, Your Honor. That's fine. So under Oral 6C, Finance and Personnel Compayment, the resolution is open and heard. Thank you, Your Honor.
 have four items the first is the award of a joint purchasing contract for city hall janitorial services to bridgeway inc of loves park in the amount of one hundred thousand six hundred sixty eight dollars and sixty cents annually the contract duration is july one twenty fourteen to june thirtieth twenty sixteen with no extensions and the contract
 Item two is the award of a sole source contract. This is for TIF Consultant Services for the proposed amendments to the Westside TIF number one and River District North TIF
 Item 3 is the City-State Agreement with the State of Illinois for the reconstruction of North Main from Riverside Boulevard to north of Auburn Street. And item 4 is the Resolution for Improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for the North Main reconstruction, Auburn to Riverside in the amount of $2,300,000. And those four are up for passage. Thank you. For passage, under Finance and Personnel Committee.
 6C1234 winners of the passage is there a discussion or a meeting it says award a joint purchasing contract so I'd like to know exactly who the purchasing contractors with other than the city Mr. Glavine don't tell me thank you ma'am this is a bid that's issued by the state of Illinois for
 for janitorial services and it's something that we've piggybacked on for quite some time. The prior vendor was Growth Enterprise and Bridgeway is the new vendor. And secondly, the consultant to be hired for the proposed amendments to the Westside and River Districts and exactly what are those amendments? Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor.
 this proposal is a result of approval of the development agreement with Morgan management for the redevelopment of the trust building in which that property would be redirected into the proposed river at the same time we're identifying other properties that are suitable and ripe for redevelopment so that we can transfer those properties into the existing TIP for future redevelopment use thank you very much good discussion Durkee Getschus
 McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hill? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes are in it. Thank you, Your Honor. This is for the approval of the contract with McGuire Woods Consulting, which is our current lobbying services, for renewal of their contract at $10,000 per month on an annual basis.
 Aye. Durkee. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Hill. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 12 ayes, 1 no.
 uh first street project which was uh committee reports that motion said to spend the rules and then i coordinate all those in favor please say aye aye aye aye 7. i place this item for passage up for passage is their discussion
 Aye. Durkee? Aye. Getchis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Purvey? Aye. Hill? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Allie? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirely? Aye. 13 A's for that. Madam President, thank you. Caller Shirely? Your Honor, I have a new business. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 have one item and that is the addendum to the mutual aid box alarm system agreement and I would ask to suspend the rules on that item also thank you there's been a motion to second the rules on the addendum to the mutual aid box alarm system agreement all those in favor please signify by saying aye aye opposed no aye Sam please be suspended
 Hearing none, questions from the roll call. Durkee, Gatchas, McNamara, Frost, Purvey, Hill, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli, 13-eyes runner. All those in favor, close the note. I say have a meeting, sir, and thank you.