Clerk, could you please call the roll? Hogeman? Here. Thunberg? Here. Alderman Frost? Here. Alderman Hervey? Here. Alderman Hoffman? Here. Rose? Beach? Kinones? Here. Hanley? McNeely? Here. Ten present. Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on January 11, 2021?
 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll bogeyman timber aye frost hervey aye hoffman rose beach quinones hanley mcneely ten eyes excellent is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on january 19th 2021. we have a motion
 Second. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logaman. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Ten ayes. Aye.
 thank you we'll move to roman numeral three petitions and communications we have no items under a which is planning and development we'll move to item b code and regulation committee alderman beach thank your honor under number three uh b one the zba agenda for the meeting to be held on the 17th of february uh and then on to the codes of regulations committee on february 22nd
 The same number two for the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda to be held on the 17th of February and subsequently to the Colton Riggs on February 22nd of 2021. Number three, memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager, permits a special events regarding the upcoming special events for Block T, trucks and tunes. This is all to be referred to Colton Riggs. And number four, a memorandum from Brooks Bennett, assistant city attorney.
 regarding an amendment to the city of Rockford smoking ordinance to include an indoor smoking prohibition with the exception of the hookah lounges, and that's also to be referred to codes and regs. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Next, we'll move to Alderman Frost, Letter C, Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Sharice Hunter, Human Resources Director, regarding an amendment to the city of Rockford rules and regulations domestic violence policy.
 This matter will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And there's an additional one, Your Honor. It is an intergovernmental agreement with the Winnebago County for Rental Assistance Grant Program. And this would also be, would refer this to the intergovernmental agreement with them to the Finance and Personnel Committee for a discussion at the next meeting. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up, we've already done...
 We've already done public speakers, so we'll move to Roman numeral five new committee reports and alderman rose plenty and development. Thank you. Your honor. The only item is the committee recommends approval of the renewal of a development agreement. Between the city of Rockford and Rockford area convention and visitors bureau for the forest city beautiful initiative. Thank you we have 1 item before you is there any discussion on that 1 item.
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman? Aye. Toomer? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 10 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we'll move to, we have nothing under Code and Regulation Committee, so we'll move to item C, Finance and Personnel. Alderman Frost.
 yeah number one is the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of six million three hundred and forty one thousand nine hundred and seventy five dollars and nineteen cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee held on February 8 2021. number two the committee recommends approval of the agency agreement addendum with resource Innovations LLC for weatherization work the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Number three is an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Illinois Department of Transportation for federal participation funding regarding the Seminary Street Bridge project. The agreement outlines the cost of construction and construction engineering to be 80% federally funded with surface transportation program funds with remaining 20% to be the City's responsibility. The preliminary cost for the City's estimated portion is $290,000. The total cost of construction and construction engineering
 For the project is estimated 1.6 million dollars. The resolution authorizes the city's use of motor fuel tax funds to pay for the city's portion. However, the city anticipates the local portion be funded completely with a future award of the state opportunity zone grant funds at which point the MFT funds will be returned to the city. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Any alderman need alderman frost to repeat the 3rd 1. Is there any discussion on the 3 items before you.
 uh your honor i have a question about item number three alderman hervey with with regard to the mft funds can the mft funds be refunded or would that have to be general funds i'm just remembering something from years ago okay uh director saunders
 Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Hervey, in this particular situation, one of two things will happen with these MFT funds. Either the DCEO grant agreement will be finalized and we'll actually be able to de-obligate the MFT funds and actually cover that local match with the DCEO funding, or we will utilize the MFT funds as the local match and then request reimbursement through DCEO for that funding. So that's how this particular project is going to work.
 Okay, that makes sense. I just remember there was some hoopla once before when we thought the state was giving us consent to do that and was agreeing to reimburse, and then they didn't. So just wondered. And just a quick kudos to staff for grabbing onto these grants. I think it once again shows that by not sequestering but using our motor fuel tax funds,
 Not always for new projects, but to be able to leverage these grant dollars. There's a lot of cities that would love to have this money, but they can't meet the 20% match. They don't have any funds to do it. And public works staff, financial staff, leadership staff, the mayor's office, we've been good in the 12 years that I've been here about...
 Using that MFT money to leverage. So thank you and congrats on on another gift Thank you any other discussion on the three items before you clerk. Could you please call the roll? I'll come in jerky Okay, Logan in tumor. Hi frost Herbie hi Hoffman Rose Beach you know, nice Hanley McNeely. I ten eyes one. I'm stained. I
 thank you uh next up we have roman numeral six appointments laid over those remain laid over next up after your honor alderman hervey your honor i'm sorry it's alderman hervey might i move to suspend if there's no objection rule 18 the appointment comes up for passage in just two days and i know for the uh fire and police board
 We've had a number of promotions and retirements. I just think it might be important to get Ms. Hargrove on that committee so she can start getting acclimated. So I'd move to suspend Rule 18, if that's the appropriate way to do it. There's a motion to suspend Rule 18. Is there a second? Second. There's a second. Is there any discussion? Clerk, could he call the roll? Erke. Logerman. Toonberg. Erke.
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? No. Ten ayes, one no. Item passes. Next up we have motions and resolutions. That's Roman numeral seven under planning and development. Alderman wrote or. Can you take a vote on the. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. My apologies. Thank you.
 Now that the rule has been suspended, now the item comes up for a vote. So we have one item before you. That's appointment of Ingrid A. Hargrove to the Rockford Fire and Police Board of Commissioners to replace Jessica Jones. She will serve a three-year term. We've already waived Rule 18. Is there any discussion on that one item before you? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 Hervey I'll use an aye Thank you Alderman Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Hanley McNeely No Ten ayes, one no Next up we have Roman numeral 7, Motions and Resolutions, Item A, Planning and Development Committee Alderman Rose
 Item one, I'm sorry, Your Honor. Item one is committee recommends approval of the application and award of acceptance for the surface transportation block grant, SDBG, on the 9th Street two-way conversion. Item two is the committee recommends approval of the application and award of acceptance for the surface transportation block grant for Harrison Avenue improvements. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Two items.
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? 11 ayes. Excellent. Next up is item B, Code and Regulation Committee. We have no items under it, so we'll move to item C, Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 on number one the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the private lead service line replacement to dale's plumbing of pecatonica in five-star plumbing of les park for an estimated annual contract value of two hundred thousand dollars the contract duration is through december 31 2021 with four possible annual extension options annual price job adjustments for cpi considered a contract renewal only the funding sources the water fund operating budget
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of award of bid for the lead service line replacement program phase three to N track group of lost park. For an amount not to exceed 4M dollars based on unit pricing. The contract duration is 1 year. The funding sources, the state revolving loan fund. Number 3, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the rental of traffic control devices to traffic services. Of Bartlett for an estimated annual amount of 200,000 dollars based on unit pricing.
 The contract duration is through December 31, 2021 with four possible one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI considered at contract renewal only. The funding source is various departmental operating budgets. Number four, committee recommends approval of the award of a non-competitive contract for Asset Works software upgrade to Asset Works of Wayne, Pennsylvania in the amount of $68,720 based on quote. The funding source is the garage fund operating budget.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of sole source contract for police portable radios and accessories to Motorola of Schaumburg in the amount of 50,905 dollars. The funding sources, the police operating budget number 6, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement, 6 street and 9th street 2 way conversion phase.
 1 to Trans Systems of Schaumburg in the amount of $1,222,019. The project is estimated to be completed by 2023. The funding source is the Rebuild Illinois Grant Funds. Number 7. The committee recommends approval of the Award of Engineering Agreement for the Madison Street Improvements to Fair Graham of Rockford in the amount of $56,580. The contract duration is through 2021. The funding source is sales tax.
 8. The Committee recommends approval of the acceptance of a grant through the Illinois Housing Development Authority's Strong Communities Program in the amount of $250,000. The SCP grant will be used to bring additional resources to address blighted homes in the City's Neighborhood Revitalization Strategy Area.
 number nine is a resolution for improvement under the only highway code for the seminary street bridge replacement requires authorization for the use of the motor fuel tax funds in the amount of 290 000 as previously discussed your honor i placed those nine items before you excellent so we have nine items before you is there any discussion on those nine items yes is that alderman mcneely yes okay alderman mcneely please go ahead
 The first one, item number three, the rental of traffic devices. What are we renting or leasing? Director Saunders. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman McNeely, this is for the rental of traffic control equipment, so barricades, barrels, really anything that our operations team would use to control traffic in a certain area while we're working.
 And we don't own those? We don't have any that we own? We don't buy those? We always rent them? We do have a very small inventory on hand that we use in very small quantities.
 you know, very small situations. There is a significant standard that goes into establishing traffic control, so we actually allow for the professionals to ensure that, you know, our staff as well as the traveling public are safe. So we actually rent the large majority of our traffic control devices. And do we also hire companies that put those up as well? So would that be in addition to this? No.
 So my understanding the question is do we hire a different company than to put them up? It's the same company and that's why we don't own them Not the only reason but one of the reasons why we don't own them because there's very specific Standards to which they need to be laid out in certain ways. And so we reduce our liability I'm assuming by doing that and you can't see it, but the department heads are nodding that for once I got something, right? Well, I was that asking if it was in addition to I
 It's an all-encompassing fee that we can rent the equipment and they will place them up in the manner in which they need to be in accordance with the law. So we don't use another company sometimes? Correct. No. Just for that? You are correct. All right, thanks. And my other question, Mr. Mayor, is item number two, the loan. Is it a loan? I thought we were getting some type of grant.
 For the pipe. Yep. So, Alderman McNeil, you're exactly right. This is a forgivable loan, 100% principal forgiveness through the IEPA revolving loan fund. So, we do not service the debt associated with this project. Okay. I just wanted to make sure on those two things. Thank you very much. Thank you. Is there any further discussion? Alderman Rose. On item three, is that $200,000 each year? Is that in...
 Part of the deal or is it are there increments that go up each year? I
 So that is our estimated annual, that's what we're estimating our annual expenses to be under this program. So it's really dependent on operation. So we could have a really busy winter that may drive up our rental rates, but it is based on unit pricing. So that is just what we estimate that annual expense to look like. Director Haggerty? Just to point out too, the vendor is allowed to request price increases at contract renewal, so on an annual basis, but those are limited to...
 the consumer price index so this 200,000 is an estimated annual but the unit prices may increase slightly each year over the life of the contract and do do the city does the city contract work have requirements for prevailing wage when it's required yes it is required when it is required by law by the state prevailing wage law and prevailing wage rates have to be paid today just I
 I don't know if I have to make an amendment on this, but when this comes up next year, can we have this brought before council like in other matters? Certainly. Okay. Absolutely. Good point. Is there other discussion on the nine items before you? Alderman Frost. Mayor, Alderman Toomberg. Alderman Toomberg. I'll go to Alderman Frost first, and then I'll come right back to you, sir. Thank you. Hopefully he won't call me again. With regard to number five, I just had a question for the police chief. Okay.
 the new radios and accessories we're receiving are those to equip a new police uh patrol cars or are they replacing old radios i remember a couple years ago we kind of we switched over our system uh to a newer uh i think it was a digital system or something and i just didn't know if that was part of that that transition or because of the new spot it's my understanding that this is replacing the older portables as they go out of service we buy new ones and we keep doing it every year we buy smaller increments okay so it's the new technology
 Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Toomer. Thanks, Mayor. I just wanted to mention I appreciate seeing the Madison Street corridor study going forward. And it's a very important thoroughfare within the downtown area that has terrific potential. So really looking forward to that and seeing what comes. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Any further discussion on the night? Nine items before you.
 Mr. Mayor, Linda McNally, going back to item number three, I'm going to be voting no on this because this is a dollar amount that's estimated annually. So this amount could go up or it could go down, and I'm uncomfortable with that. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Aye. Alderman Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? No on three, aye on the remaining. Items one, two, 11 ayes. Item number three, 10 ayes, one no. Items four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 11 ayes. Thank you. Next up, room numeral eight, new business. We will go to planning and development. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item, an ordinance approving the renewal of a development agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau for the Forest City Beautiful Initiative. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones?
 Hanley? McNeely? Aye. 11 ayes. Thank you. Next up, we have item B, Code and Regs, has nothing under it. So we will go to C, Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, Your Honor, is an ordinance approving the agency agreement addendum with Resource Innovations LLC for the weatherization work. Okay.
 Number two again is the ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the Illinois Department of Transportation IDOT for federal participation in funding the seminary Street bridge project the agreement outlines the cost of construction and construction engineering and
 To be 80% federally funded with the surface transportation program, STP funds with the remaining 20% to be the city's responsibility. The preliminary cost for the city's estimated portion is 290,000. The total cost for the project is estimated to be $1.6 million. The resolution also authorized the city's use of motor fuel tax funds to pay the city's portion. However, the city anticipates.
 This local portion to be funded completely with a future award of the state opportunity zone grant funds at which point the MFT funds will be returned to the city. Thank you. Is a rule suspension. Item number two requires a rule suspension. Is there a motion to suspend the rules on item two? I would make that motion. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion simply on the rule suspension?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll on the rule suspension? Durkee? Logaman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? Aye. McMeeley? Aye. Eleven ayes. So now you have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logaman? Aye. Toonberg?
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely?
 to the end and ask alderman frost if he has any announcements for us i do i'm sorry your honor to be the bearer of bad news but i'm going to make a motion uh to convene in a closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters we have uh we have one item before you is there any discussion on that one item we need a second oh sorry is we have a motion is there a second
 We have a second. Reluctantly, we have a second. Seeing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Hogeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Aye. Eleven ayes. Okay, we'll convene into closed session and be back.
 Do we have to exit or do we stay on? Aldermen who are joining us virtually, please stay on the phone. So please stay on the phone. Webex Assistant is enabled to save audio highlights. Okay, we are back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Here. Logeman? Here. Thunberg? Here.
 I'm done. Frost. Harvey. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Alderman Rose. Beach. Alderman Beach. Kinones. Hanley. Thank you. Alderman Hanley. We all have you. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Here. 11 present. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, now we're back in open session. Is there well, I should ask about officers reports. Is any alderman present at city council have any officers reports? Any alderman online have any officers reports? No, your honor. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. There's no discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke, Berkman, Thunberg. Aye. Ross, Herbie. Aye.
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Alderman Rose? Alderman Beach? Alderman Quinones? Alderman Hanley? Alderman McNeely? Have a good night. It takes under an hour.