For you tonight, we ask that your presence will be in this room, be with the decisions that have been to be made, be with those who have to make those decisions, that they would be for the benefit of the citizens of Rockford.
 Lord, we also pray that you'd be with our fire and police departments. Protect them, Lord, as they go out on the streets and keep us safe from harm and danger. Lord, we just pray that you'd have your way in everything that's said and done tonight. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Gasparini. Here. Tunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Present. Beach. Present. Quinones. McNeely. Present. Chiarelli. Present. Eleven present.
 Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on January 27th, 2020? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on February 3rd, 2020? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye.
 Those opposed, same sign. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on February 10th, 2020? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? All right. Motion passes. We have no proclamations this evening, so we'll go right to petitions and communications. And the first up, we will go to Alderman Rose for planning and development.
 thank you your honor we have a memorandum from carl franzen community and economic development director regarding an information only update by region one planning council and community and economic development on the northern illinois land bank authority and other neighborhood development initial initiatives referred to planning and development committee thank you alderman rose next up we'll go to code and regulation alderman shirely thank you your honor
 We have the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on February 19, 2020, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on February 24, 2020.
 We also have the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on February 19th at 2020 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on February 24th 2020 and the third is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn the assistant city attorney regarding the consideration of applications to
 To modify existing liquor licenses to add one additional video gaming terminal all three are referred to codes and regs your honor Thank You alderman Charlie next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee alderman frost. Thank you First is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty regarding revisions to the water ordinance to be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee Secondly, we have a memorandum from Jennifer catch up. Oh, yeah regarding the Illinois heels program grant award acceptance And that also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. I
 Thank you Alderman Frost. Next up we have public speakers. We have two public speakers this evening. Just want to remind our public speakers that there's microphones on the back right and back left and that you have three minutes to speak. Our first public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the ninth chapter, the tenth verse, it says those who know thy name will put their trust in you God.
 what I want to speak about tonight they say that they didn't have African American training instructors in the military that's a lot I'm a name some tonight my oldest brother who died with the Tuskegee train struck in Alabama Kentucky in England he was a Tuskegee fighter pilot my other brother who is 90 years old with a month apart marine who did 11 years in Marines with a senior drill instructor at Paris South Carolina he also did nine years in the army with Secretary of State Jesse White my other brother who is
 85 years old, did 10 years in the Marine Corps. He was a senior drill instructor in San Diego, California. I did 19 years, 11 months, 29 days, 1 hour, 10 minutes, and 15 seconds in the Navy. I was a senior chief weapons training instructor at Coronado, California, Little Creek, Virginia, and Recruit Training Center, Great Lakes,
 My oldest nephew, who is 69 years old, did 24 years in the Army and retired with a drill sergeant at Fort Benning, Georgia. My other nephew, 39, who retired from the Marines with 20 years of service, was a senior drill instructor in San Diego, California, and command sergeant major recruiting in San Diego, California. My other nephew, who is 38 years old, who did 20 years in the Air Force and retired with a military training instructor at Lackland Air Force Base, so African American people
 believe the lies they say about our people. Our people have fought and died for the United States of America. Also, they want to tell my nephew, Benjamin, who retired as a teacher in Chicago just for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it, and happy birthday, my good friend, and I wish you many more, and God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you. Happy
 you. Happy birthday, nephew. Happy birthday to you. And I wish you many more. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack-Brandley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. I want to go by saying, first of all, I want to thank all our sponsors that's been supporting us and the sponsors who wanted to support us but wasn't able to. But first of all, we're doing very good in the Queers Bowl contest that they have at Booker Washington Center. Our youth is in first place right now. We've been winning two weeks in a row. Our family lost last week. There's one girl that's 14 years old.
 They are after seven points. You get ten points for each one. She scored five of them points and went heavy. She tore us up. And so next week is the final week. But the good thing that's coming up out of this is at the elementary school, middle school, Queer's Bowl has been going on for years at the high school level. But to see the kids come in and talk about the Queer's Bowl and talking about learning,
 and whether it be now the elementary school and the middle schools is looking at doing quiz bowl with 5C. And I forgot to do one thing I always supposed to do before I start, and the disciples asked Jesus, how you gonna feed these 5,000 people?
 and Jesus said the harvest is plentiful but the workers are few. We need more workers in the vineyard and with the school board and the school administration they blessed us with two school buses yesterday to transport. We had 40 youth and I was blown away 25 adults. Two of the school buses, drivers invited
 five more of their friends to meet us there at the place. So it was good seeing it wasn't just African-Americans, but seeing how many whites that was there that was enthused about the Underground Railroad. What also caught my attention was, and the reason I do what I do, is one of our youths asked me, and we were standing in the building,
 Well, I don't see no railroad. Where the railroad at? And I had to tell her, you standing in the railroad. This is the railroad. And then to find how in the corridor where you have 25 people in the five by 10 cell and they had to be quiet and showing them the pot that they had to use
 you uh use a bad phone man and then this weekend i had a phone call from mike uh bloomberg that's running for president his chief of staff called me this here uh saturday i took five of my uh moms and we met with him uh to uh met with his chief of staff uh today at the district we asked him a lot of my moms asked a lot of questions he did not have the uh chief of staff did not have the answer to so we let everyone know even though we got a bonus block you
 just not coming in here taking our vote for granted. Even though he a $50 billion man, we want him, when you come to Rockford, we want to find out what it is that you're going to bring to our town and what it is that's going to benefit all of us and not just come here and give me some kibbles and bits. And the governor, my mother-in-law called me when he ran for office, but at least the governor is doing what he said he, he, he, he's doing
 That he's going to do and then I want to thank Miss Hoffman. She informed me about Oshkosh, Canada. Thank you, John. I'll be back. Thank you. And my apologies to counsel. I'm going to have to go back to petitions and communications because we may not hear anything positive out of Director Myers except for this. So, Director Myers.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Just confirming receipt of our Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $422,165.02. Thank you, Director Myers. Okay, next we will move to new committee reports and planning and development committee Alderman Rose. Three items.
 This is under new committee reports, is that? Yes. Okay, sorry, I got lost there for a second. Number one, a committee recommends approval of the 2020 funding agreement and work plan with Rockford Area Arts Council.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the 2020 funding agreement and work plan with Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful. Item three, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of a license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for use of 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse. All of those items referred tonight. Thank you, Alderman. So, Alderman, you have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Yes.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly Program director Franzen
 So both the Arts Council and Keeping Northern Illinois Beautiful had fallen within the overall master agreement of the community partners program. Their funding sources are different. The Arts Council funding source is the Redevelopment Fund, and Keeping Northern Illinois Beautiful is the general fund. Similar to 2019, there's not a recommendation for an overall master agreement for what was Rockford Community Partners.
 any other discussion seeing no other discussion clerk will you please call the role turkey yes toonberg ross thompson kelly hoffman rose beach quinones mcneely shirely 11 eyes thank you those items pass next up we go to code and regulation committee alderman shirely thank you your honor
 i have two this evening the first the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of a public library that includes a public plaza area drive-through book drop pickup at 215 and 227 north wyman street and 1xx west jefferson street
 And two, the committee recommends reversing the zoning board of appeals denial of three wall signs at 215 and 227 North Wyman Street and 1XX West Jefferson Street. Those are subject to conditions, Your Honor.
 And second, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Board of Library Trustees of the City of Rockford for cooperation on certain improvements for Lot 3 of the Rockford Public Library planned unit development and access easement agreement. And the legal director shall proceed.
 Prepare the appropriate ordinances for both of those items your honor and I placed them up for passage Thank You alderman Shirely, so we have two items before you alderman is here any discussion on those two items alderman toonberg Thank You mayor on B1 B the just let you know that the sign that the smaller one of the three on the handout you were given looks like it's facing east and
 Actually, that sign will face south. So just a notation to that. Thank you. That's it. Thank you, Mayor. Is there any other discussion on the two items that are before you? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 ayes.
 thank you next up we'll move to finance and personnel alderman for us first john we have the committee recommending the approval of vouchers in the amount of 5 million 359 429.24 as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting last week on february 10 2020. two
 Two, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for U.S. Business 20 from Meridian Road to Springfield Avenue between the city and the state of Illinois. Project includes the following, including total city participation of $575. The funding sources, the motor fuel tax funds, legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you.
 number three the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for u.s business 20 between buckley drive to shaw road between the city of rockford and the state of illinois the city's portion of the signal improvements are listed below at a total cost of 6189 the funding sources the motor fuel tax funds the legal director shall prepare the appropriate or
 Number four, the committee recommends approval for the sale of a city-owned property located at 728 South 6th Street to Maria Hernandez for the amount of $25,000. In lieu of payment, the buyer shall perform all demolition, removal, backfill, and labor associated with the property. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number five, the committee recommends approval of an agreement to terminate the financial assistance award for Barbara Coleman from the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration, known as the EDA Investment Board.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I placed those five items before you Thank You alderman frost We have five items before you alderman. Is there any discussion on those five items alderman McNeely? Thank you Mr. Mayor on item two and three. I did notice this last week for the for US business 20 the total cost 575 dollars is total city participation and then on three for a
 East State Street the total cost is $6,189. Is there a reason why we're paying for one and not the other? Director Saunders? So thank you Mayor. The first number, I'm sorry two, that is just for the relocation of existing equipment to the signal. Number three is actually the upgrade of new equipment. So one is just a simple relocate and the other is actually an upgrade. Okay. Does that help?
 Yes, Alderman can Jonas. Yeah, I want to know I'd like to know is there a time frame on for When the work has to be completed director Franzen work. We're anticipating that work being completed within 90 days Thank you. Is there any other discussion on the five items before you saying no further discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll jerky jerky? Yes, brain timber frost
 I'm sorry. Thompson, Kelly. I'm here. Aye. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. 11 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have officers' reports. Alderman Rose. I just wanted to share that today was...
 RPS, the high schools do these competitions and one that occurred today was the balloon blitz. It's a robotics program where our engineering kids go up against each other. Wanted to announce that Jefferson had won today, which was, we'll get them next year, East will.
 I wanted to say thank you to a lot of the volunteers that came out, especially the Rockford Police Department brought out their robots that they use with the bomb squad so They shared about a half hour's worth of information with the students there And the kids were just so intrigued to see how you know the work that they're doing in the classroom Really resonates to real-world Experiences and especially with our Rockford Police Department. We also had the United States Army and
 Fire Department was represented so it was a cool experience to see those different volunteers come in and spend time with the kids that's wonderful thank you alderman Kenyon is yeah I like to make an announcement that the Rockford Park District is taking applications for summer jobs so you have any kids in the neighborhood have them go down and maybe they'll get a job down there thank you
 Alderman Thunberg. Thank you mayor. I just like to mention. Thank you to the chief and everyone on the police department for their diligent work on an incident incidents that we've had happen within our city on the northwest side and
 You know, we have made some progress, it looks like. Also, I'd like to mention that, and Mayor, I'm sure you can back that up, back this up, that there are times that investigations are sensitive in nature, and there are times then, because of that, that we as aldermen, maybe even the mayor as mayor, are given about the same information,
 as the public receives. So as much as we'd like more information ourselves to safeguard the investigation of some of these incidents, we're given basically the same as the public. So I hope the public is understanding on that, that if we could say more, we would. So thank you. Certainly. And I would just add that,
 to alderman thunberg's point about some really most recent heinous despicable crimes every single resource that our city has is focused on this potential perpetrator and that we will be doing every single thing that we can to ensure the safety of all of our citizens and it's certainly our number one priority alderman mcneely
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Over the years, I frequently question where are all these guns coming from? And recently, the state's attorney office, Marilyn Hite, Russ, and the feds and our chief...
 And the county they've made at least two significant arrest and both of them built, I believed involved confiscating guns. So the more guns we can get off the street, the better. So thank you, chief. Thank you all that were involved. Thank you. Alderman Gasparini. This weekend, Saturday, we met at the Navy Club, the local clubs.
 had an issue with a statute and I just wanted to thank Senator Stadelman, Legal Director Meyer for assisting myself, Alderman Quinonez and Alderman Shirely for assisting these people. I think we walked away with
 a good thing and i think you know it's just the little little things that we do to help these clubs and help these people i think it showed that we made an effort and like uh alderman shirely said you can either uh help them or you can go to sleep right and we help them so i want to thank all those guys thank you thank you other uh reports
 Seeing none, we'll move on to unfinished business. There's no planning and development items, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got a committee. I recommend sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a 20-mile-an-hour school speed limit restriction on Harney Court from Fairview Avenue to Hawthorne Avenue. And the legal director shall...
 Prepare the appropriate ordinance. This was laid over from the february 3rd 2020 meeting here and I placed it up for passage Thank you. So there's one item before you is there any discussion alderman beach? Thank you your honor Um, I had asked to have it laid over and then I was not here last week Um, are we told that legally we cannot drop that speed limit lower than 20 miles an hour? I will go to director saunders
 Thank you, Mayor. That is correct. The Illinois Vehicle Code establishes the 20 mile per hour speed limit in a school zone. So they actually define that speed zone as such. Thank you. Any other discussion on the one item before you? Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. McMeeley. Aye.
 Was that Shirely? 11 ayes. Thank you. So next up there is no finance and personnel unfinished business for their committee. So next up we have appointments laid over. First appointment for Jeremiah Griffin will be laid over until after March 4th, 2020. Next appointment is an appointment of Aquanet Parham as the Executive Director of Human Services Department. Is there any discussion on that appointment?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. And we are actually, I will just say, one, I would never get an anonymous or a unanimous vote.
 endorsement by all of you so I'm thrilled that Aquanet did and Aquanet's with us and we're excited to have you on our team Aquanet so thank you thank you next up we'll move to motions and resolutions we have nothing under planning and development so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Chiarelli thank your honor
 The first is a request for an approval of a resolution for authority to intervene on the 2018 property tax appeal case For Rock River Tower located at 913 North Main Street The second is the st. Patrick's Day parade to be held on Saturday, March 14th The third is melt fest which is going to be held on Saturday, March 21st and the fourth is the Midsummer Festival will be held on Saturday, June 20th and
 I place those four up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have four items. Is there any discussion on those four items? Alderman Thunberg wants you to know that three of them are in his ward. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Gasparini. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinonez. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. First is an award for bid for the 2020 demolition program, group number 9, Northern Illinois Service, for the amount of $139,897 for various properties. The funding source is the Community Development Block Grant and the Broadway TIF.
 Because there's one commercial property on there. Number two is an award of non-competitive contract for Starcom Radio Backup to Rock River Service Company in the amount of $54,694. The funding source is the police operating budget.
 Number three is an award of professional services contract for engineering services 2020 water system improvements to fair grant for a contract amount based on hourly rates with an estimated budget of $650,000. The contract duration is one year with an option to extend for two one year.
 Periods by the mutual consent of both the city and the consultant the funding sources the water replacement improvement account number four is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for US business 20 from Meridian to Springfield Avenue for relocation of traffic signal equipment the amount of five thousand the funding sources the motor fuel tax funds number five is a resolution for improvement and
 Under the only highway code for US business 20 from Buckley to Shaw Road for traffic signal equipment upgrades amount of $10,000 of funding sources, motor fuel tax funds. And lastly, as a resolution authorizing the central services manager to execute a contract for natural gas supply to city facilities for up to a three year term as rates are refreshed on Tuesday, March 18th, I'm sorry, February 18th, 2020, which will be today. I place those matters before you.
 Thank You alderman frost so we have six items before us is there any discussion on those six items alderman McNeely Thank You mr. Mayor so on number six the Refreshment of the three years is each year director so
 for that contract we we will look at different terms but three years would be a fixed price for the full three-year term so depending on how the market is doing at the time on the day that we will execute the contract which will sort of watch the market over the the next several days if three year pricing is favorable then we will lock it in for the full three years and it protects us from
 rising gas prices over the term thank you very much uh-huh Thank You alderman Quinones number one see one know what would be the time frame on a package like that they have all they completed director Franzen so when we issued a PO for the demolition the contractor is 45 days to complete them 45 days discussion
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. We'll go to new business and planning and development committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you.
 There are three items, an ordinance approving the 2020 funding agreement and work plan with the Rockford Area Arts Council, an ordinance approving the 2020 funding agreement and work plan with Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, and then an ordinance approving the renewal of a license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse. Thank you. So we have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items?
 Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent. So those items passed. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving a special use permit for a PUD consisting of a public library
 That includes a public plaza area, a drive-through book, drop and pick up, and three wall signs at 215 and 227 North Wyman Street and 1XX West Jefferson Street. That needs 10 votes tonight, Your Honor.
 I have an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Board of Library Trustees of the City of Rockford for cooperation on certain improvements for lot three of the Rockford Public Library PUD and access easement agreement. And number three is an ordinance establishing a 20 mile an hour school speed limit restriction on Harney Court from Fairview Avenue and Hawthorne Avenue. I place those three ordinances up for passage. Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman. So we have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Alderman Frost. I appreciate the library getting us a rendering showing the conceptual and it looks, I hope the potential signage will
 we'll reflect this or at least we'll hear back from them. I just, one concern he has with them being blank is, you know, Alderman Thunberg's been talking a lot about the library in his award. I just hope that the tall vertical sign doesn't end up saying Thunberg Hall or Thunberg Pavilion. And I'm just, that's why I'm over here. They're trying to bring people in. I don't know if that'll say anything. Just why it's somewhat concerning that it's blank on there for now, because who knows what could come of it that way.
 They'll certainly bring back Renderings is there any other discussion on those three items alderman dirt? It's just a follow-up on alderman's Ross's a comment. I don't think toonberg should take a bow for anything. He doesn't fund All right any other discussion seeing none Kirk will you please call the roll turkey? Hi, yes, bring me to bird Ross Thompson Kelly Hoffman
 Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely. 11 ayes. Wonderful, all three items passed. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you. First is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement for West 8th Street from Meridian to Springfield for the traffic signal equipment with the total city participation of $575, the funding sources, motor fuel tax funds. Secondly is this,
 On East State Street, an intergovernmental agreement from Buckley Drive to Shaw Road between the City and the State of Illinois. The City's portion of the improvements is approximately $6,189. The funding sources, motor fuel tax funds. Third is an ordinance approving the sale of the City-owned property at 728 South 6th Street to Marie Hernandez, the amount of $25,000. The terms are as agreed to before. Number four is an ordinance approving the agreement to terminate the financial assistance award for
 Department of Commerce. I believe those those are the only four items excellence We have four items before you is there any discussion on those four items alderman Thompson Kelly? It's my how old are those traffic signals at that intersection and I thought they were going to be upgraded under I dot director Saunders I
 Thank you, Mayor. So, yes, it's not the actual relocation of the signal itself. It's just the emergency vehicle preemption that's on the top of the signal. So IDOT will be replacing and improving that intersection. Because I know $105 on it now. And if they weren't going to approve it, we don't want to be anywhere near you if they don't. So we're good. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Durkee. In regard to item number four, I don't know if I can answer that.
 It's sort of sad to see that this vote, but I just wanted to take the opportunity to thank The folks that work very hard on being creative and trying to redevelop this property. I think it's important to redevelop I hope we don't give up on it and that we stay diligent, but it's important part of the city it's a great piece of property and hopefully we keep up the creativity and and and try to figure this out and development so
 Thanks to the folks who tried to make this all work. It was a great project. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Offman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. 11 ayes. Excellent. So 42 minutes, eight pages of information
 Only can mean one thing alderman Shirely So I'd like to convene to go into closed session here and it's hard to read this In order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters and labor negotiation matters We have a motion in a second is there any discussion Clerk could you please call the roll Durkee? Gasparini Toonberg frost
 Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Shirely, 11 ayes. All right, we'll recess for closed session.