hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven father we come before you tonight asking that you would conduct the business meeting here in a way it would be pleasing to you and lord that thing would be going according to what your word says lord we just pray tonight that the decisions made will be for the benefit of citizens of rockford and lord that we will be able to move forward as a community doing what we know that you would have us to do
 Pray now, Lord, that you'd be also with those who protect us on a daily basis, the fire and police departments, as they go about their jobs, protecting citizens of this community. Help them, Lord, as they go each day. Take them home at the end of each shift, that they might be able to know that they have done a good day's work. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Chaplain. Next, we will have the roll call. Alderman Durkee. Alderman Logerman. Here. Alderman Thunberg. Alderman Frost. Here. Alderman Cherena. Alderman Pranti. Alderman Wilkins. Here. Alderman Durkee.
 Alderman Hoffman. Here. Alderman Rose. Alderman Beach. Alderman Keones. Alderman Meeks. Here. Alderman McNeely. Alderman Bonney. Here.
 it's 12 present because i saw alderman excellent so we got a quorum this evening that's always good uh next we are going to move to proclamations but right before i do that see that we have tamir bell and just want to say congratulations and thank you for uh the awesome job you and the eisenhower eighth grade boys team did and i believe getting fourth in the entire state of illinois so congratulations and thank you
 Next up, we have a proclamation for Irish Marching Society Week. And we have Danny and Mike who would like to come forward. You can. Thank you. Thanks. I'm going to give this to you. All right. We're –
 You did? Yeah. Awesome. All right. Do I have to say it in an Irish accent or something? Yeah. Whereas, the Irish Marching Society of Rockford is strictly a not-for-profit organization chartered in 1976 and was established to preserve and promote Irish heritage within our community. And whereas, the Irish Marching Society continues to preserve, promote, and educate Irish and Celtic culture in the greater Rockford community.
 And whereas, Irish Marching Society's 46th annual St. Patrick's Day Parade will be held on Saturday, March 12, 2022 at 3 p.m., beginning on 7th Street and 5th Avenue and ending at the Prairie Street Brewhouse at 200 Prairie Street. The Paddy Fest will be held at the Brewhouse following the parade from 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. Good luck getting them out at 7.30 p.m.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of March 6, 2022, to be Irish Marching Society Week. Would you like to share a few words with us? I would. I would. Don't give the Irishman the mic. That's the thing. Well, as you know, um...
 The Irish have a deep, you know, the story of the Irish people is mirrored with many other stories that are like that from many other cultures that have come to this country to make something of themselves and to make our land a great melting pot. But in that melting pot, we want to keep the flavors distinct.
 and salient so that it's really, you know, it enriches all our lives. And that's what the Irish are trying to do, remembering our heritage. We want to share that with everyone. And we ask everyone to come out in March. You know, all families are welcome. All nationalities are welcome. Everyone is welcome to come in March in the St. Patrick's Day Parade. It's the kickoff.
 to all the parades this year. It's the kickoff to spring. It means so much to so many people, this celebration. And as the COVID starts to lift, we really just want to say this is just our opportunity to really shout and show some green and decorate the cars and come on out and have a great time. This year, we do plan to do Operation Emerald Wind. I'm sorry, Emerald Water.
 Right, Emerald Wind is the band that's playing, sorry. Okay. Emerald Water, and we're going to try to put that green color to the river. It'll be a show, so come on about 5, 515-ish, you'll be standing on the bridge, on the State Street Bridge, and you'll see it all pass by. So we can't dam our river forever like Chicago, but anyway. But we're going to do it. Also the Irish are dedicating this parade.
 Tom's father and and our mayor John McNamara, so come on out Just appreciate all the work that you guys do all throughout the year 46 years of this parade is really amazing and a ton of Work, so thank you Fantastic thank you
 For a second I got really nervous. I thought he was going to ask me to dance. All right. All right. We're going to move on quickly. We'll go to petitions and communications. And I believe we do have petitions and finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. Yes, Your Honor, we do.
 First, the Community and Economic Development Department is seeking City Council approval for a memorandum of understanding for existing Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund RLF grant monies and pending Brownfields RLF grant supplemental funding from the United States Environmental Protection Agency. And then, Your Honor, we'd like to refer the...
 above reference items to the february 28 2022 finance of personnel committee for consideration of acceptance of an application an award of the us epa brownfields revolving loan fund supplemental funding the grand award if accepted and will provide funds that can be loaned to private and public entities to perform eligible environmental cleanup work on impacted brownfield sites uh your honor i think that was actually a memorandum um
 from Robert Willamy regarding the acceptance of the application and award for the US EPA Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund grant supplemental funding, which will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. So next up we'll have public speakers. We want to remind our public speakers that you have three minutes to address a council.
 You will hear this obnoxious cell phone ring, and that would be to close up your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the residents and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois, that's watching us tonight.
 The day I walked through the valley of the shadow of death, I should fear no evil for you thy Lord is with me. Your rod and your staff that comfort me. You pare a table before me in the presence of my enemy. You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflow. Surely gracious and love will follow me. All the days of my life I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. In 1955, Rosie Parker refused to give her seat on the bus which started the Civil Rights Movement.
 Mr. Wilson, um, Carl G. Wilson, um, uh, wound up getting back history month from a week to being a whole month. Ronald Reagan was so jealous of the other president's birthday in the month of February that he had changed to where all the president's birthday is in the month of February. Those that stick out the most is, um, Lincoln, um,
 George Washington and Ronald Reagan and also we actually mentioned this
 Ulysses Grant because he's from Illinois. This month, Black History Month, we are going, we did a quiz boat at the UAW Sports Factory, which turned out to be very interesting, teaching our kids our history. What's blowing me here in Rockford is that in Chicago, from the third grade all the way through high school, we learned our history all year round.
 Only two schools here in Rockford even practice teaching our kids our history through all the grade levels all year round. That's Jackson Childhood School and Pastor, I mean, Minister Henry Kiki, what's the April, what is it called, Kiki?
 Keekeburg School is the only two schools. On this Thursday, we're taking two school buses that we were blessed with. The kids get credit towards their school grade. We're going to the Underground Railroad on my birthday. Mind you, my birthday is February 24th during Black History Month.
 So I was born doing Black History Month, so I have a deep passion. And like my mom told me when I was shot five times back in the 70s and I survived and three other people passed away, she said the Lord got something here that he got something for you to do.
 and I found what my calling was, is right here in Rockford. This here is Sunday, Saturday, Patrick, the coordinator for the Midwest Village Museum has invited us to come out
 to the Midwest Village Museum to check out the artifacts for Black History Month. That's very interesting. But what I've also noticed is that the Discovery Center had an event for Black History Month, but they charged $10 to get in for Black History Month. Also wanna mention the fact that we have set- Thank you, Mr. Bray. Our next public speaker is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr.
 it's reverend earl datson senior with us i don't see the reverend here with us so we'll move forward uh next we'll move to new committee reports and we'll go to planning and development committee and alderwoman meeks thank you your honor
 item number one committee recommends approval of the second amended and restated lease agreement between the city of Rockford and Longwood Zion apartments for the parking lot located at 1041 East State Street aka parking lot Z the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you so we have one item before us is there any discussion on that one item alderman Quinones how long is this gonna be
 Question is how long is this going to be director Franzen? There you go. The lease agreement would go through 2040 lease agreement through 2040 Any other questions clerk, will you please call the roll? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't see you alderman Beach. I'm sorry your honor. I'm trying to find out here I'm reading here, but I didn't see the the amount of money that is being charged Is that going to be the same each year as it going up? Oh
 Director Franzen? No, that's a static $1 per year through the life of the lease. $1? Okay. All right. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Milgoman? Aye. Chunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Pronte? Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Meeks? Aye. Donnie? Aye. That's 13 ayes.
 Item passes. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Our first item is the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals denial for a special use permit for a used car lot in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 601 East Jefferson Street. Item 2 and 3 are being held out. That's it.
 Thank you. And, Council, just that was at the request of staff that we hold out items two and three. We have a little bit more work before they're voted on. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Other woman in front of you. I'd like to lay over item one. Okay. We have a motion to lay over item one. We have a second. So we have a motion and a second. That will be automatically laid over.
 All right. Next up, we're going to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $10,661,837.63 as approved at the Finance and Personnel meeting held on February 14, 2022. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance of the City of Rockford authorizing the City to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note series 2018-20.
 Fourth modification agreement in the amount of $12 million with associated bank, National Association, the legal director shall prefer the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the updated 2022 fee schedule for ambulance transport fees. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the Children's Home and Aid sub-awardee R3 grant or award to provide a child development specialist and safe program therapist to provide therapeutic and child development services to clients of the Family Peace Center through the R3 grant. The City of Rockford was approved to receive.
 An additional designation up to $520,790, which includes an additional $64,652 for a child development specialist and safe program therapist. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of an agreement with Winnebago County and 17th Judicial Circuit courts for placement of an abuse in later life advocate through the enhanced training and services to end abuse in later life program grant.
 Winnebago County agrees to pay the city for advocacy services for a total amount not to exceed $64,440, including mileage and a deputy director to provide a one hour per week supervision in the amount of $2,406.80 over the term of the agreement. This position is 100% grant funded. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number six, the committee recommends approval of an agreement with the Winnebago County and 17 judicial circuit courts justice for placement of legal advocate through the justice for families grant. The Winnebago County agrees to pay the city for the project over a three-year period not to exceed $129,817.80. The position is also 100% grant funded. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number seven, the committee recommends approval of a professional service agreement with Region 1 Planning Council to build a domestic and community violence data infrastructure for assessment of strategy development and deployment. The total amount charged for work performed under this agreement shall not exceed $35,360. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of a MOU to implement the Community Program to Improve Minority Health Grant Award
 with the following seven entities the uic college of medicine office of health literacy cura strategies rockford regional health council providence missionary baptist church new zion missionary baptist church hope fellowship church and the wabango leadership council the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance place these eight items before you thank you so we have uh eight items before you is there any discussion on those eight items
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Shirky? Aye. Wilgeman? Aye. Tunberg? Aye. Frost? Tarina? I'm staying on item 7. Pronte? Wilkins? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Meeks? Bonney? Aye. 12 ayes on 7 and 8 and 13 ayes on the rest. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to unfinished business. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose? Aye.
 thank you your honor number one the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board recommendation of denial for a modification of an existing liquor license to allow video gaming terminals in a c4 urban mixed use zoning district at 505-507 east state thank you we have uh one item before us is there any discussion on that one item alderman thunberg thank you mayor uh after
 Some discussions I will be for this but I would like legal director Meyers Direction on this I would like it. I would be in favor of it under the condition that would only entail three machines So if you'd like to make a motion to modify the committee report I
 When you modify the conditions we would need to put that in writing and be a motion at this point on council floor So it would be it would entail a motion lay it over and then we could crew up an amendment for you. Okay? Then I would motion to lay this over if we have a motion. We have a second that it's automatically laid over
 or has it already been late i think it's been laid over one time it has i'm sorry it was laid over on february 7th so we have a motion we have a second uh and we have a motion to lay over in front of you is there any discussion on that motion all those in favor of laying this item over say aye aye those opposed okay just so i'm clear the motion will be a motion to amend uh recommend approval with the condition of three vgts correct okay thank you
 Okay, we have nothing under finance and personnel. Next, we'll go to officers' reports. Alderman Logeman. Yeah, I would just like to congratulate Coach Tamir Bell over there for Eisenhower, their success there at Eisenhower. I would like to share, too, that I, too, was a middle school basketball coach at Kennedy Middle School, and I think we won three games that year, and you probably won three in one day. So, yeah, kudos to you, Coach Bell. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Alderman. I just wanted to remind everyone that there will be a listening session tomorrow down at District 1 Police Station for discussion about the Auburn Street Corridor. So if you are interested and would like to voice your opinion, please come between the hours of 12 a.m. to 12 p.m. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Yeah, just a reminder, tomorrow is the last day to submit letters to the State Board.
 for recommendations on the closing of services to Mercy Health on Rockton. And just encouraging Rockford citizens to send those letters to the state. I believe there's been a few posts online on the city website. But I think it's just absolutely...
 the most probably disgusting and gross misconduct of a hospital system to, um, pick on an area that needs so much services and, um, just continue to break those promises to the community. And, um, they said that they were going to stay for 10 years. Um, it's been six. Um, they said they were going to invest millions of dollars into that facility. They haven't. And, um,
 I encourage people to write letters, although I think it's something that will need a miracle to change. However, I think that everyone should have a say in this and let it be known at the state level that these kind of things should not be happening, especially to low income areas and especially to areas that need healthcare in them.
 thank you alderman rose any other uh reports alderman canones yes i'd like to thank uh me and the navy club would like to thank todd cagnoli and alderman logoman for attending her meeting on her upcoming anniversary this summer thank you and just clarifying uh uh meeting tomorrow about auburn street corridor that's 10 a.m to noon is that right okay wonderful any other officers okay
 Next we'll go to motions and resolutions and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee Alderwoman meets Thank You Your Honor Item number one committee recommends approval of the Ford for fun initiative Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? Toomer Frost Tarina Pratty Wilkins Hoffman
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Keonis. Meeks. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. Item passes. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is the committee recommends approval of the Irish Marching Society Street St. Patrick's Day Parade. This event is scheduled for Saturday, March 12, 2022 from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. with parade step-off at 3 p.m.
 That's it on that item. I'll be at that one. Number two, the committee recommends approval of trucks and tunes. This event is scheduled for 5-4-22, 5-29-22, June 1st, July 4th, July 6th, August 3rd, September 4th, September 7th, October 5th, from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m.
 Item 3, the committee recommends approval of the Over the Edge for Girl Scouts and IDOT resolution. This event is scheduled for June 3rd and 4th, 2022 from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. at 303 North Main Street in front of the Supply Corps building.
 in item four the committee recommends approval of the winter bonfire black history celebration this event is scheduled for sunday february 27 2022 from 5 p.m to 10 p.m uh 100 block of north main street thank you so we have uh four items before us i believe all of them are either in or right around alderman tunberg's ward um any discussion on those four items none uh clerk will you please call the role turkey
 aye volgaman right jumberg aye frost aye terena we have 12 eyes on number 4 and 13 on the remainder
 Excellent. Item passes. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for tree removal, pruning, and emergency response to Flying W Tree Service and Tree Care Enterprises for an estimated contract value of $250,000 annually based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through December 31, 2022, with four possible one-year annual extensions.
 And annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered a contract renewal only the funding sources the street depart division operating budget number two The committee recommends approval of the award a bid for the banner placement repair and storage services to smart signs For an estimated contract value of forty thousand dollars annually based on unit pricing the contract races through December 31 2022 with four possible one-year annual extension options and
 Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered a contract renewal only. The funding source is the Traffic Division Operating Budget.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award for the turf slope mowing and restoration to JJ Paris for an estimated annual value of $152,400 as shown on the bid tabulation. The contract duration is through December 31, 2022 with four possible one-year annual extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered at contract renewal only. The funding source is the street division operating budget.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the rejection of the bid for the Page Park Dam electrical upgrade. Staff recommends rejecting the bid received. The bid received was $51,656 higher than expected. Engineering is currently reevaluating this project and may consider going out to bid again in the future.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for tracking and reporting of wage data for state and federal requirements to LCPT Tracker of Orange, California in the amount of $25,300. The contract duration is one year with four possible one year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered a contract renewal only. The funding sources, the legal department operating budget.
 Number six, the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for the purchase of three police vehicles, the Anderson Rock River Ford, in the amount of $45,859 each for a total value of $137,577. The funding sources, the capital lease funds, police department operating budget.
 number seven the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the eighth avenue over keith creek bridge replacement phase two design engineering to imeg corp of rockford in the amount of one hundred and three thousand eight six hundred eighty five dollars the project is estimated to be completed in 2022 the funding source is the motor fuel tax funds and surface transportation uh bridge fund the
 Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the supplemental resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code 8th Avenue over Keith Creek Bridge replacement for Phase 2 design engineering authorizing the use of the motor fuel tax funds in the amount of $25,000. I place these eight items before you. Thank you. So we have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those items? Alderman Beach. Alderman Beach.
 Your Honor, thank you. Just a question here. Several of these reports have annual price adjustments for CPI. What happens if that number goes down from what it is today? Thank you. Does this go in reverse? I mean, if we pay more, if it goes up, should we not pay less if it goes down?
 CPI adjustments and contracts are limited on an annual basis to only what CPI increased for the year. So, let's say CPI was 2%, a vendor could request up to a 2% price increase going into the next year of the contract.
 Obviously, we've had situations where we've had negative CPI, thankfully not all that often, but in that event, we did not reduce the contract rates based on CPI. It is a limiter only on the amount of the increase that we'll allow. So do I understand if it's a negative, it stays the way it is? Yes. Okay. Thank you.
 Any other discussion on the items before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Milgramen? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Conte? Wilkett? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye. McNeely? Bonney? Aye. That's 14 ayes.
 Excellent. Thank you. We'll move to new business, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee, Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Under item number one, an ordinance approving the second amended and restated lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Longwood Zion Apartments for the parking lot located at 1041 East 8th Street, a.k.a. Parking Lot Z. Thank you. We have one item before you, Council. Is there any discussion on that one item?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Loeweman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Pronte? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Meeks? McNally? Bonney? 13 to ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Thank you.
 We will move to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Those two items were pulled. Thank you. Yes. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel so we can hear from Alderman Frost again. They're really all the same I've already read. We're all eager to hear them one more time. Thank you.
 number one is an ordinance approving the authorization for the city of rockford execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note series 2018 fourth modification agreement in the amount of 12 million dollars with associated bank number two is an ordinance approving the updated 2022 fee schedule for ambulance transportation fees number three is an ordinance approving the children's home and aid sub-awardee agreement uh renew our three grand award
 The City of Rockford was approved to receive an additional designation of up to $520,790, which includes an additional $64,652 for a child development specialist and safe program therapist. Number four is an ordinance approving the agreement with...
 the 17th Judicial Circuit Courts for placement of an abuse and later life advocate through the enhanced training and services to end abuse in the later life program grant. Winnebago County agrees to pay the city for the advocacy services for a total amount not to exceed $64,440, mileage for travel in the amount of $1,495, and a deputy director to provide one hour per week of supervision in the amount of $2,000.
 $2,406.80 over the term of the agreement. This position is 100% grant funded. Number five is an ordinance approving the meeting with Winnebago County and 17th Judicial Circuit Courts Justice for placement of legal advocate through the Justice for Families Grant. Winnebago County agrees to pay the city for the project over a three-year period.
 um period a total not to exceed 129 817.80 this position is 100 grant funded number six is an ordinance approving a professional service agreement with region one planning council to build a domestic and community violence data infrastructure for assessment of strategy development and deployment the total amount charged for work performed under this agreement shall not exceed thirty five thousand three hundred and sixty dollars
 Number seven is an ordinance approving the Memoranda of Understanding to Implement the Community Program to Improve Minority Health Grant Award with the following entities, the UIC College of Medicine, Office of Health Literacy, Cura Strategies, Rockford Regional Health Council, Providence Missionary Baptist Church, New Zion Missionary Baptist Church, Hope Fellowship Church, and I believe that is it. I thought there was one more.
 uh i'm sorry uh wabongo leadership council i knew there was an extra seventh one uh i placed these seven items before you for vote nine thank you so we have uh seven items before us is there any discussion on those seven items other one in mcneil thank you mayor i'd like to know the total amount of the grant 3.6 million i didn't remember that thank you
 secondly I understand that the director is on the board of at least one of these organizations I believe she is active in Mabunga Council yes and that still qualifies for this it does doesn't disqualify them for sure thank you welcome any other discussion items
 None. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Wolleman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Pronte? Wilkins? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Meeks? McNeely? Aye. Is that aye on the remainder then? Donnie? I need to abstain on items six and seven, please, and the aye on the rest. Thank you. Were you able to get that? Thank you.
 13 eyes on number six 12 eyes on number seven and 14 on the remainder. Thank you Also, since we made all of you come to City Council on Valentine's Day. We decided to give you no closed session tonight Actually, we just don't need to bring you to closed session. A legal director will be meeting with our our
 Which group will you be meeting with, Mr. Mayor? Shout out to the members of the Lieber Negotiation Committee. Just update them on the status of our ongoing negotiations with our unions. Thank you. With that, is there a motion to adjourn? Second. We have a motion. I think that was Alderman Tunberg who gave us a second. Thank you. Anyone have any discussion? Alderman Wilkins has no discussion. So all those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.