thank you I'll call our city council meeting to order and ask our second invocation this evening by chaplain Jay Johnson from Freedom Baptist Church let us pray dear Lord we thank you for the privilege of being able to serve our community
 I pray tonight that you will bless everything that's said and done on tonight. Be on the best interest of people who live on both sides of the river. I pray now that you would bless our mayor, our city council, our police and fire department, and our school district, and all of the citizens that make up this great city, Rockford, Illinois. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Please call the roll. Getschus, McNamara, Hervey, Frost, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elian, Chiarelli, Levin, present, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Wadiouba.
 Is there a motion to accept the journal on February 6th? There's been a motion. Second, is there any amendments or changes to the journal? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. We have several speakers signed up for public participation this evening. I'll invite our speakers to come up and use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. As their time is up, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Brandi Brown. Thank you.
 Is Brandy Brown available? Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Hosea, the fourth chapter, the sixth verse, it says, my people are destroyed from lack of knowledge because you have rejected knowledge. What I want to speak about tonight, black men
 who got the Medal of Honor in Vietnam. There were 20 black men. I'm gonna name them tonight. Count them off with me. James Ellison Jr., Marine Corp. 2, Webster & Linder Army, 3, Eugene Ashley Army, 4, Oscar Austin Marine Corp. 5, William Bryant Army, 6, Rodney M. Davis Marine Corp. 7,
 Robert H. Jenkins, Marine Corp. 8, Lawrence Joel, Army, 9, Dwight H. Johnson, Army, 10, Ralph H. Johnson, Marine Corp., 11, Godfield Long, Army, 12, Matthew Lennon, Army, 13, Donald Russell, Long, Army, 14, Melvin Morris, Army, 15, Milton L. Lottles III, Army, 16, Raleigh P. Pitts, Army,
 17, Charles Calvin Rogers, Army. 18, Rupert L. Sargent, Army. 19, Claire Sasser, Army. 20, Martin Lawrence, Army. Black people, you have no reason...
 to have your head down, stand up, speak up, and let the whole world know what you have done for the United States of America. There's a boy that goes to Auburn, he said, Prophet, you was telling me about Hill 881. Here, I was up there for 77 days, worked with the 3rd Battalion, 26th Marine. Here, River Patrol Squadron 53, got the senior service called Civil Star, Bond Star, President of the Union, Sight, Taste, Legion of the American.
 Set up black folks. Thank God. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the men and all the women and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Proverbs 28, 27 say, God want us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be be humble.
 could be restarted positive. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return their favor. Paul promised that God would supply all our needs. He usually does just to other people. Why can't you today help God supply some of the needs? Not my president, Dave Rowley, draw anti-crowd worldwide from sea to shiny sea. Thousands
 of American, my President's Day on Monday by denouncing the current occupation of a
 of Donald Trump. Well, however, we are not going to waste our time talking, or taking our time talking about anti-Trump routing, but we are going to talk about what we're doing right here in Rockford. This past weekend, on Thursday and Friday, we went to the YMCA after-school program and at Rock River College Aviation Maintenance
 for a tour and a presentation. We had peace on both days. We'd like to thank our RHA and Mount Zion church band that helped to bring 25 at-risk youth and young adults. This is what I'm talking about. There was no monetary in the class, there was no minorities in the classroom. Yet, there are over 500 jobs in Rockford that have not yet
 been fulfilled. We want to thank Rock Valley College Aviation Department and the Rockford Chicago Airport and all our sponsors that helped to make this day happen. We had middle school and high school students plus young adults to see for the first time jobs that are out here waiting on them. We'll be back in three months to join them. By the way, we are still working on getting a bus or a minivan. This past Saturday, we was at Rock Veteran Memorial Hall celebrating African Americans
 veterans from Tuskegee Air and World War II to the Vietnam War. It was an excellent day to meet one of the real veterans of the movie. We were soldiers, Saturday and Sunday. We stopped at the Ketch for some chicken, wings, and french fries. We'd like to thank our sponsors for helping make this day happen.
 This was a very good for some of our fairground at-risk youth to meet some real World War veterans that risked their life for our country, not the one to be gangbangers that's out here trying to destroy our neighborhood, but real American heroes. This week we'll be going to RHA town hall meeting
 and on racism at Pilgrim Baptist Church tonight. Tomorrow we'll be going to Mount Zion Church. Thursday at North Main Manor is our Black Soul Food Dinner and celebrating my birthday. Be 62 years old. Our agenda would be on crime, housing, and have special guests. One of our main special guests is Gorman, Andre Blakely from the Gorman.
 Ron Kluwer and the Winnebago County Chairman and hopefully our Mayor. We are looking at working with RU and programs and events that will give them something to do after school and on the weekend. We do not have any funds, but what we do have is faith in the work will be done. Like RHA.com stated on Monday newspaper, a lot of people in Rockland and I was... Mr. Brantley, your time is up. Mr. Oh, okay. I got practice working on this. Okay. Mr. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Gary Anderson. Good evening. This past week you received a draft of the agreement for the Embassy Suites Hotel, also known as the Amrock Hotel. You might say I wear many hats and represent many interests, especially when it comes to advocating for downtown. And just to let you know, I don't have a horse in this game. I'm just being an advocate for it.
 I've seen my fair share of development deals and know the difficulty we have here in Rockford making developments financially feasible. The resurgence we have seen here in downtown has been due to a use of the state and federal historic tax credits. Over $60 million has been invested with more in the works. It took us 10 years to do the Prairie Street Brewhouse to make it come to life. It too had its starts and stops.
 Over 40 years of hopes and aspirations were dashed for the lack of financing. It finally came to fruition because the financial tools were available and because we had an owner that believed in the project and what it could do for this community.
 The Brewhouse inspired others and set the development standard while being located in a run-down industrial corridor. It took vision, perseverance, and stamina, and a belief that this project could contribute to a brighter future for all of us. It's hard to believe that in the beginning we could only get a loan that would only cover 25% of the total cost of this project.
 Lloyd and Diane Coe made it happen and they were not deterred from their dream and vision to have it come true. None of our recent downtown projects have been easy to finance. The difficulties are real and it's holding back our community's ability to grow and prosper. Low property values and undervalued appraisals contribute to a toxic investment environment in this community. It's nauseating and disheartening to the hundreds of developments that never saw the light of day in this city.
 So if we're disappointed in the number of iterations, plan revisions, and the length of time it has taken to develop this hotel, our biggest private development ever downtown, well, that's part of the reality our own hand has created by minimizing risk, investment, and not recognizing value. When the Friends of Zioch identified Gary Gorman four years ago, we knew the road was long, difficult, and full of rollercoaster emotions.
 His understanding of the financial picture and the will to succeed has been stellar and commendable, and we got what we bargained for. For developers who would have been long gone by now, other ones that we had looked at, but he has a vision that will set the table for a whole new generation of investors and believers in the future of our community. If we are to obtain a goal of being a top 25 community, we need to work a lot harder, think more broadly,
 and evaluate how we can shape our future and our own destiny. The AAR facility would still be a pile of dirt if it hadn't been for this council, the county, and our local banks taking risks and believing in the project. Woodward would have located elsewhere except for believing in this community's future. We've all wanted a hotel down here for 40 years. This is the closest we've ever been, and it's a first-class facility.
 Rockford has a cruel way of discouraging anyone with its cold, hard facts of reality. As much as we all want this, including the friends of ZIOC, without your support, we have nothing. We recognize that this proposal needs some changes and a greater understanding of what's at stake. It's more than just a hotel we're considering here. It's how future investors will view our community.
 Are we progressive, visionary, and willing to do everything we can to shape our future? Or do we maintain the status quo and just tread water? We need to continue our efforts through projects like this that will attract and retain talent and new business. Mr. Anderson, you're one minute. Please come back next week. We'd love to have you for another visit. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. I just want to give one more chance for Brandi Brown. Is Ms. Brown here? Yes.
 All right, thank you. Thank you again to all of our public speakers. I would like, if there's no objection, we need to go to a closed session. And I was going to get a motion from Alderman Shirely. But if there's no objection, I'd like to do our proclamations first so our guests could take off before our closed session. All right, so without objection. Thank you.
 Our first proclamation is for the 30th anniversary partnership of the Hoffman House and Rockford Public Schools 205, the Culinary Arts Program. Invite the guests that are here to accept that proclamation and please come forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Whereas in 1986, the Hoffman House restaurant owner, Bob Prosser, opened his kitchen doors to the Rockford Public School District 205 Culinary Arts Teacher Program, Patty Oliveri and her students. And whereas over the last 30 years, Mr. Prosser and his staff have educated hundreds of students in areas of food preparation, safety, sanitation, catering, and banquet planning,
 And whereas by providing a dynamic hands-on learning environment, the culinary arts students have developed fundamental job skills and lessons that they have carried on with them for years to come. And whereas with the assistance of the Hoffman House Restaurant, the extended campus career program, the culinary arts classes have been a great success for all. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrisey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim February 21, 2017,
 as the 30th anniversary partnership of Hoffenhaus and RPS 205 Culinary Arts Program. And we call upon our citizens to recognize this collaboration and to support their career readiness efforts in the culinary arts students and with their program. Would you like to say a few words? If I give it to Patty, we'll be here too long.
 Hoffman House has been here since 1958, so next year will be our 60th year, since 1975, at our current location. We have always been and always will be heavily involved in our community and are just thrilled that we're able to be part of such a great program. Patti Oliveri, if any of you know her, she's tenacious and she's after you all the time and it's hard to say no to her.
 But as much as she brings to our community, we are lucky to be partners with her.
 Thank you very much. I just would like to say that a couple of years ago we took a field trip to Elgin Community College. Rockford does not offer culinary arts so the students would go to Elgin. The director of that program, after seeing the extensive portfolio that these kids build up with all the skills that Hoffman House helps us to teach them, she said that no other students from parts of five counties come with these types of skills.
 Wow, and that's when I knew we had something. So very very good. So we thank Hoffman House so much I'm Kim Ramsby the director of transition and vocational services for the Rockford Public School District and Hoffman House has been Known forever in Rockford. I remember being just a little person and going to Sunday brunch at Hoffman House It was like a highlight for me and now I go out there and I see my kids and
 and my Patty, because I claim her as mine, out there doing a wonderful job. They are working side by side with the chefs at Hoffman House. They are viewed as equals and they are learning a trade that they would never be able to learn in a million years in a classroom. And this is why people go into education. So that their students can learn a trade, a gift that they can take forth and become valuable contributing entities to their community. I was born and raised in Rockford.
 These guys, born and raised in Rockford, they're going to be here. And God willing, I've seen them cook. They'll be cooking for you guys because what they learn at Hoffman House is remarkable. We have a lot of future chefs over there, and I hope, based on my breakfast on Friday morning, I hope you get an opportunity for these kids to cook for you because they are fantastic based upon what they're learning from Bob and his crew. So, bye-bye from the bottom of my heart. Thank you. I appreciate you.
 Earl Dotson, Jr., Rockford Public Schools. I just want to say thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council, for this recognition. Thank you, Patty, for your leadership. Thank you, Bob, for your partnership. We're very grateful for that. So, again, we're very appreciative of this recognition of our students and the wonderful citizens that they will become. So thank you all very much. Absolutely. Great idea. Can I introduce you to something? I mean, that's it. That's a lot of work you're in. Thank you.
 I know you know. You don't have to do that. You just introduce yourself. My name is Sebastian Campos. I go to East High School and I'm a junior. My name is Drayquan Fryer and I'm a senior at Auburn High School. Award. Seven. My name is Adrienne Stye and I'm a senior at Auburn High School. My award is five.
 I'm Zoe Stee. I'm from Auburn. I don't know that. My name is Jesus Bernal. I'm from Ward 2. I'm a senior at Jefferson High School. Thank you very much. Thank you. Congratulations. You guys got a great future. Congratulations again, and thank you for all your hard work, and good luck in the future. Thank you.
 We have one other proclamation this evening as our guests are leaving. One group, I'd invite up our next group. I'd invite Dan Petrie, who is here on behalf of the Fatherhood Encouragement Project and the Fatherhood Awards Banquet coming up this week. Dan, if you want to come up and any other members of your group to come forward.
 Again, this is regarding the Fatherhood Awards Banquet and the Fatherhood Encouragement Project Week. Whereas in July of 2015, Dan Petrie brought together a small group of fathers representing different walks of life, united by a simple goal of wanting to be better dads. Whereas the peer-based Fatherhood Encouragement Project now brings together fathers who share fears, frustrations, and flaws and encourage each other's accomplishments and strengths.
 The Fatherhood Encouragement Network is a recently formed network of organizations dedicated to supporting fathers in our community. This emerging network is supported by the Rock River Valley United Way, YMCA, City of Rockford, Rockford Housing Authority, other faith-based groups, and local organizations.
 Whereas the first annual Fatherhood Awards Banquet will be held February 23rd, this Thursday at 5.30 p.m. at Giovanni's Restaurant to recognize area dads and to support and sustain the Fatherhood Encouragement Network.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of February 20, 2017 as the Fatherhood Awards Banquet and Fatherhood Encouragement Project Week, and we encourage Rockford citizens to support and celebrate the dads in our community. Would you like to share a little bit?
 Thank you, Mayor. Appreciate it. You know, when I originally launched this program, it was designed really to encourage, uplift, love on dads, teach them how to communicate, teach them how to father. And so what we did was we created a foundation that would be rock solid. And so this foundation is based on biblical principle, but we teach affirmation, leadership, and parenting. And so by the time a kid is 18 years old in America, they hear the word no over 200,000 times.
 So what we like to do is replace the word no with you are. Teaching your kids who they are instead of who they aren't. And so every morning I will tell you that I turn on my son's lights and I say, Hey, today is going to be a great day. And dead asleep he'll say, because God created me to be a winner and a leader.
 And so he takes that to school. And, you know, in this program, Robbie's a newer dad. He's been with us for just about a month now. But we started with three dads, and now we have over 70 that we get to minister to. And so it's been amazing, and it's been awesome. And so we're excited about where this goes, and we just appreciate this. So thank you. Thanks. Thanks, Larry. Thank you. Thank you.
 You know, I'm going to get one other item. I'll get it out of the way. It's really not something we want to get out of the way. It's something we want to celebrate. Mr. Vittner, can you come up and describe what these two plaques are for us? Thank you, Mayor. It's a pleasure to be here to inform the council and citizens that
 The city has achieved two more project awards, one for the Harmon Park drainage improvements where we created a rather large detention basin to control large volumes of fast moving storm water through the rolling green neighborhood. This project has been a long time in coming. I think a gleam in someone's eye about what to do here started 10 years ago.
 So, we're pleased that Willett Hoffman is our designer nominated this project with the American Council of Engineering Companies for a design award. The other project is the Rails to Trails Bridge, which Willett Hoffman also designed. And that's an 800-foot long bridge just south of Fordham Dam that what used to be a railroad crossing, now it's a pedestrian and bikeway.
 that kind of completes the loop around the southern part of downtown. It connects to Morgan Street as well as connects into the Ingersoll and beyond. What's challenging about this is that from a design perspective, and that's why the engineering companies nominated and gave it the award, is we bid this out, if you recall, the first time and it was way over the budget. So we had to go back to the drawing board and redesign it.
 more economically, and I think it turned out fabulous with lighting elements and matching railings and a concrete deck. So these are two great projects, and I'm pleased to see that Rockford still receives awards and will continue to for its great infrastructure. Thanks, Mayor. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Now alderman Shirely, did you want to make the motion? Thank you your honor I moved to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters. Thank you. There's been a motion Is there a second it's been a motion and second to go in a closed session to discuss pending or threatened litigation matters Is there any discussion hearing none clerk, please. Call the roll getches McNamara frost Herbie Connell Thompson Kelly Odo Beach
 Elliot? Chiarelli? Aye. 11 ayes, Your Honor. Thank you. Motion carries. We will recess for the purposes of a closed session to discuss pending or threatened litigation matters. Guests that are watching and our guests that are here in the chamber. We'll move on to petitions and communications. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items under Roman numeral 3A. Number one, memorandum from Lacifera Vaughn.
 Assistant City Attorney regarding Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau quarterly report for fiscal year 2017, quarter two, October 2016 through December 2016. This will be referred to planning and development. Another memorandum from Paul Denham, Director of Human Resources and City Attorney, regarding a resolution approving the request for information for additional development at the on-site Wellness Center building.
 This will be referred to Planning and Development. And lastly, Item 3, a memorandum from Thaddeus Mack, Building Code Official, Construction and Development Services, regarding the proposed properties for demolition using the approved ranking system. This list will also be referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Matters will be referred. Alderman Shrelle. Thank you, Your Honor. We've got three items this evening.
 First is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda and the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on February 22nd, 2017 and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 27th, 2017. The third item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events which include Rockford Public School District 205 fund run
 Unitarian Universalist Church Rum at Sale and the Ramp River Run. All three of those items will be referred to codes and rights, Your Honor. Thank you, matters. Will be referred. Finance and personnel, Alderman Getchis.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have six items to refer. Memorandum from Kerry Echlin, Finance Director, regarding Extension and Property Tax Rebate Program. Memorandum from Paul Denham, Director of Human Resources and City Attorney, regarding Non-Union Employees' Compensation Ordinance for 2% Adjustment of 2017 Wages. Memorandum from Paul Denham.
 Director of Human Resources and City Attorney regarding adoption of rewritten City of Rockford 457 deferred compensation plat document. Memorandum from Paul Benham, Director of Human Resources and City Attorney regarding approval of amendments to the City of Rockford rules and regulations. Memorandum from Paul Benham, Director of Human Resources and City Attorney regarding modification and extension of the agreement of the on-site clinic with Marathon Health.
 Memorandum from Kerry Partridge, Interim Legal Director, regarding City of Rockford Industrial Project Revenue Bonds for the Wesley Willows Project Series 2011, amending the resolution and second supplemental indenture. I refer these items to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. The matter is referred. Mr. Partridge, you do have an item you want to report on?
 Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. This is for the information of the council. I just want to let everyone know that we have received the quarterly payment from Comcast in the amount of $462,137.16. Thank you. Thank you. Further petitions and communications, Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 I have a petition for new street lights with 34 signatures on it from the businesses and residents of Auburn Street. I would like to refer this to Public Works and I'd like to be kept up to date on the process of it. Thank you. Thank you for the petitions and communications. If we've already done proclamations, we'll go to a new committee report. Solomon Durkee. I have three items under, well, how many items? Several items under Roman numeral 4A.
 On number two will be held out. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the Board of Education of Rockford Public School District 205 for the support of the Kishwaukee school demolition and site acquisition. Legal interim director shall prepare documents.
 the appropriate ordinance. And number three, Roman numeral 5A3, the Rock River Development Partnership Amendment Agreement for the indoor market. Number four, the Rock River Development Partnership Operational Funding Agreement for indoor market. Number five, the Rock River Development Partnership Outdoor Market Lease Agreement for indoor and outdoor market.
 And number six, the Rock River Development Partnership Outdoor Use Agreement for the indoor and outdoor market. I'd like to suspend rules on those items. Second. So in a motion, second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5A, items 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to place up for passage Roman numeral 5A, 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6. That has been placed up for passage. Is there discussion? No.
 All of them in Harvey? Do you have a... So all of these for the outdoor market, this is like final vote and ordinance through tonight? The rules were just... On a committee and on tonight? Yes, the rules were suspended. Now, let me remind you, these are subject to an automatic layover if there's a motion and a second to lay the matters over because of that very thing. I'd like to lay it over. So which, just to be clear, which items do you want to lay over? Get my glasses on.
 3, 4, 5, and 6. Is there a second? So those will automatically lay over again. That's actually state law. All in favor? All in favor? Seconded before I did. Okay, thank you. Make sure the record's correct. So there was motion and second. So those will...
 automatically lay over Roman Rule 5A, 3, 4, 5, and 6. That leaves 5A1 still with the rules having been suspended. Is there discussion on that item? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. No. No. Aye. No. Aye. Matter passes, thank you.
 Move on to codes and regulations, Alderman Shrelle. Thank you. Roman numeral 5B1, 2, and 3, Your Honor, I move to suspend the rules. So I only have a 5B1. Am I missing something? Oh, did I get under the wrong page here?
 5B1, it's moved to suspend the rules. Thank you. The motion is second to suspend the rules on Rule No. 5B1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended. Place that item up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye.
 Chair Raley. Aye. 12 ayes. The matter passes. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Gatches. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. Promo numeral 5, Charlie 1, 2, and 3. 1 is approval of the vouchers in the amount of $8,444,090.54. Approval of fire reduction for 1219 Ogilby Road to $1,000. And
 the 2016 property tax abatement ordinance. I move to spend rules on these items. Thank you. There's been a motion, second to spend the rules on Roman numeral 5C123. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended. Your Honor, I place these items up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getches. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Aye.
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Veach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Chiarelli? 12 ayes. That is all passed. Thank you. Further reports, committees? I think that's it. Officers' reports. I just have one additional item. I'll just do it seated. We've had a number of inquiries regarding yard waste
 Starting early, staff will be following up with Rock River Disposal, Mr. Cagnoni in particular. But generally speaking, our yard waste starts in March, so we don't have that much further, but we'll have the discussion. And we'll make announcements through the media and through council if there is going to be an early start to yard waste.
 It's supposed to get below freezing in the next week or so, so we don't want to count our chickens, so to speak, but we'll follow up on that. Further officers' reports? One, once. All right, we'll move on to motions and resolutions. Alderman Shrelle. Under motions and resolutions, item number B, 1, 2, and 3, a place up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Up for passage, room numeral 7B, 1, 2, and 3. Matters up for passage. Is there discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Veach. Aye. Elliott. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Batters passed. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Getschis. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. Roman numeral 7, Charlie 1, 2, 3, and 4. I place these items up for passage.
 Roman numeral seven, motions and resolutions C1234 are up for passage. Is there a discussion? Alderman Herbie. Just one. The development agreement with the Lyman-Rockford pathways, is that three years altogether or is it one year each, renewable each year? I'm sorry. I put my computer away so I can't pull it up.
 You know, I believe it's a commitment to three years, $40,000 a year. I don't know if staff has any, if I'm remembering that correctly. I don't know, Mr. So it's a three-year commitment. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Partridge. Also a reminder on item C-4, when we suspend Rule 15 on that item. Your Honor, I move to suspend Rule 15 on item Roman Rule 7, Charlie 4. Sir.
 There's been a motion second to suspend Rule 15. On that matter, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Your Honor, I have about four items up for passage. My items are up for passage. Again, any additional discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Detchis. Abstain on Charlie 2. Aye on the rest. McNamara. Frost. Hervey. No on the 2. Aye on the 2. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Odo.
 Elliot Chiarelli. Items 1, 3, 4, 12 ayes. Item number 2, 9 ayes, 2 noes, 1 abstain. Measure passed, thank you. New business, Olamidurki.
 Down to one item, Roman numeral 8A, number one, an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with the Board of Education, Barker Public School District number 205, for the support of Kishwaukee school demolition and site acquisition. I'd like to suspend rules on that item. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion to second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 8A1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye.
 Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The roll is to be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I place up for passage Roman numeral 8A1. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Chiarelli. Aye.
 9 ayes, 3 noes. The matter passes. And just as a reminder, those other items under A did not get, were held at the committee level, or at the report level, rather, and so they are not up. We have one item remaining. Alderman Getchis. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 8, Charlie 1, the 2016 property tax abatement ordinance. I move to suspend rules.
 I'm going to motion in a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 8C1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes 7. Rules be suspended. Your Honor, please cite them up for passage. As up for passage, is there any additional discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye.
 Chair Ridley. 12, aye, Chair. Matter passes. We've got our move to adjourn. We've got a motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes 7. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.