February 21st, 2018. Commissioner Saltzman is interested in participating by phone for this meeting so there's some formal announcements that need to be made prior to that.
 First of all, pursuant to PCC 3.0 2.0 2.5, Commissioner Saltzman is participating by telephone because of weather conditions and without Commissioner Saltzman's participation by telephone, there is not a sufficient number of council members present to conduct all of the city's business.
 This morning the officer, the office of Commissioner Fritz was contacted to inform her that she could participate in this council hearing by phone. Commissioner Fritz is unable to do so today. Do any council members who are physically present object to having Commissioner Saltzman participate by phone? That's you. Any objections, Nick? I waive all my objections. He waives his objections. There are no objections. Please call the roll. Fritz? Fish?
 Aye. Or here, excuse me. Saltzman? Udailey? Wheeler? Here. Council meets on a regular basis to conduct the city's business. Preserving order and decorum allows everyone a chance to provide meaningful input to the City Council. To maintain decorum and to make sure that everybody feels welcome and respected and safe, we have some basic rules.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk for communications to briefly speak about any subject that you'd like to speak about. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions and first readings of ordinances. Your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your full address. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist, if you're representing an organization, please
 identify that organization. The council presiding officer, that's me today, determines the length of the testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light goes on in front of you. When your time is up, the red light goes on.
 Please finish your comments by the time the red light goes on. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations is not allowed for obvious reasons. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given. Further disruptions may subject the person to ejection for the remainder of the meeting.
 Being ejected and failed to leave, you are subject to arrest for trespasses. Simple thumbs up or thumbs down is sufficient if you like something or don't like something, respectively. So with that, Commissioner Fish. Mayor, we have a lot of people in chambers today, which means they were able to get from their homes to City Hall.
 We're gonna have three members of council here this morning, which means they were able to get from their homes to, you and I were able to get here from a place where the roads are typically challenged when we have a snowstorm. Can we take a moment to just acknowledge and thank Commissioner Saltzman and all the hardworking members of the Portland Bureau of Transportation for their work over the last 24 hours? That would be a great thing to do. And I'd like to second that. We have had crews out
 since yesterday morning, in fact a little bit before that time. They've been out all night. We have had people working and volunteering in our homeless shelters, including severe weather shelters that we have opened.
 For the occasion, we have our utility bureaus working around the clock to make sure that our water and sewer services continue to be maintained. And I want to join Commissioner Fish in thanking Transportation Commissioner Saltzman and Utilities Commissioner Fish and all of our fantastic city employees for their hard work. You're here. Carla, if I am looking at this screen correctly, do we not have...
 Just your screens are not working. It's just ours, but we have closed caption working. Why don't we go ahead and start with communications, please? And I also want to thank all the council staffs who are present in chamber today, too. Thank you, chiefs. It's good to see you all here as a group. Item 153, request of Sandra Shotwell to address council regarding Eastmoreland Neighborhood Association spending funds to pursue historic designations. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning.
 Mr. Mayor and counselors, my name is Sandra Shotwell. I'm fortunate to have been a resident of Portland for 25 years in Eastmoreland. If I were to move here today I don't think I could afford my home. So happy to have purchased it earlier and housing and
 The pressure on housing and concerns about affordability are really the issues that I know are important to you and that I want to address. There is an odd situation which occurs because of an inappropriate connection between an honorary national historic register designation, which comes with voluntary guidelines, and Oregon law. On the second page of the handout, which I hope you have in front of you.
 is an Oregon law which was designed to ensure that homeowners are not placed in a historic designation district unless they consent.
 And there was at the time an exception because the National Register Historic District is a voluntary and honorary designation and they didn't want to prevent neighborhoods from being able to go in there. I believe that it has created a loophole that people have taken advantage of to place their neighbors into historic districts.
 which come with design historic resource guideline review, demolition review. It adds time and expense and delay to taking care of your older home. In our district, for example, our board used $50,000 plus of Neighborhood Association monies. Only wealthy neighborhoods can afford this consulting that's required, and applied to the National Park Service for a designation.
 It was not something where they necessarily were sure they had support of the neighborhood. When they took a vote three months later after submitting the application, in fact, two-thirds of the neighbors voted. That's a pretty good turnout on an election. It was close, but more people were opposed to the district than supported it. They went forward.
 Anyone, literally I could put one of your neighborhoods into a National Historic District if I appropriate reviewed it because it's meant to be honorary. It's meant to be voluntary and unfortunately in Oregon the only state in the country it comes with resource review which as I said adds to the cost of taking care of an older home. Our local districts in contrast you actually have to get people to say yes, I would like to be part of this district and
 And those also come with guidelines. I'll point out one distinction. Demolition review is a funny issue. People don't like to see these older homes demolished. I think unless, I think few of us do unless they're really in bad shape. Sometimes they need to be. So demolition review is something that many people like. I think a broader category of people might like. But our local historic districts don't have it. So the combination of historic district,
 Review I've made a couple of requests to the council if you look at them I'd appreciate it if when national designation comes up the council would agree that there should only be Voluntary guidelines, which is what the National Park Service suggested Thank you very much for the handout when we get a handout that's as clear as this and has the attachment It makes our job easier and you you've um, I
 You've raised a couple of issues that, frankly, I'm not as clear about, the distinction between the two kinds of designations and where the rules are. So I think we're going to want to dive into this a little bit and make sure we understand it and have staff explain this to us and then get back to you. But thank you for highlighting this issue. Thank you for your attention. I appreciate it. Thank you.
 Next individual, please, Carla. Item 154, request of Brian Houle to address counsel regarding Bureau of Transportation Greenways diverter to be installed at 50th and Southeast Lincoln Street. I don't see Mr. Houle. Next individual, please. 155, request of Lisa Brockmiller to address counsel regarding Bureau of Transportation Greenways diverter to be installed at 50th and Southeast Lincoln Street.
 Mayor, may I make a suggestion? It's quite possible that both of these individuals were not able to get here because of transportation-related issues and the snowstorm, and I would urge us in this instance to consider, if they choose, to add them to next week's agenda, even if it means suspending the rules and having two additional public comments. I would be fine with that. And it's my understanding that Mr. Houle and Ms. Brockmuller were planning on testifying together on the same subject, so I'd be fine with that suggestion.
 Carla, can we do that? Can we suspend the rules and add two? We need four people to suspend the rules, correct, Lauren? Well, let's do this. We'll work with them to bring them back at a later date. That's what the policy says now. We give them the first available spot. Okay, very good. Next individual, please. Thank you.
 Item 156, request of David Keith Davis to address council regarding suppression of First Amendment rights of protesters, citizens, cop watchers, citizen journalists, whistleblowers, and activists by the city. I do not see Mr. Davis. Next individual, please. Item 157, request of Kevin Fitz to address council regarding the city's relationship with Home Forward. Good morning. Good morning. May I get situated, please?
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. For the record, my name is Kevin Fitz. I head a nonprofit called the Oregon Mental Health Consumer Association, but I'm not here representing them today. I'm just speaking as a citizen of Portland. Thank you.
 I have three minutes, and I just want to take ten seconds to say, you know, I am particularly impacted as a low-income person living with severe mental illness of the burdens of economic issues, et cetera, et cetera, and struggle to get my voice heard in policy. But I am impacted significantly in the last couple of years by the death of my parents.
 the death of my nephew, Garrett, of Matthew by opiate overdose, my other nephew in Eastern Oregon State Prison due to eviction and opiate problems, and my sister-in-law suffering with acute leukemia in Swedish Hospital in downtown Seattle.
 And so they are in my thoughts. I came here to talk to you about the issue of the City of Portland's oversight in connection to the public housing authority called Home Forward. In 1992, you signed an agreement, an intergovernmental agreement, with then Housing Authority of Portland to give them some authority to reaffirm
 run the Public Housing Authority in Portland with issues of your appointing four of the governing board of that and Multnomah County two and the City of Gresham two. It is the issue that I have currently as a tenant of this Public Housing Authority and being able to get my needs met consequentially from a staff that is challenged by tremendous turnover,
 stress and high client loads. I have filed a complaint with the Housing and Urban Development Office of Fair Housing in Seattle and I am seeking an attorney to file
 support for what I see as discrimination around my rights as a tenant. And I've also reached out to Dennis Richardson's office and Representative Walden's office for support at a federal level with HUD and at the state level with the oversight and audit of that public entity, the Home Forward. So to that end, I would like to ask for your support with your interim public
 housing director to see if we could get somebody to help me deal with some of these issues. I don't want to air this laundry publicly, but just some of these issues I'm having as a tenant and getting my needs met. I just would like just to take the last 10 seconds and have a moment of silence for people who are in pain and suffering with health issues or opiate issues or houselessness issues. Mr. Fitz, can I ask you a question?
 As you know, there is a position on the board of directors for Home Forward set aside for a resident, and that's a very important position because the perspective of the resident is often, I think, overlooked or shortchanged in decision-making. Have you considered at some point whether you would put your name forward in nomination for that position in the future? Sure.
 It's an interesting question. One of the things that I do in my day job is I work to loosen the grip of what I call benevolent paternalism. Particularly one of the issues we're facing nationally is the description between what we call the administrative bureaucratic blue church church
 on the Democratic side and what they call on the Republican side the grassroots activists of the red religion. And so what we're trying to try to challenge is how do we get the voice of the consumer more involved in these policy and governance boards
 that moves beyond just tokenism or becoming a bureaucratic mascot or an administrative lapdog. And so some of those things we're trying to challenge. I have considered it. I have so much other things to do legislatively around mental health and consumer issues. I have thought about it.
 So I have issues with they have to have an administrative plan they're supposed to show and let all the tenants know about every year. They're supposed to publish when their resident advisory council meets to the public every other month. Stuff like that. And I know they're short-staffed and they're stressed. The epidemic of houselessness and homelessness and trying to provide housing services for people in poverty with disabilities is a tall order. Yeah.
 Well, and I don't – I'm not here to alibi for Home Forward, but I will tell you that given the President's budget that he just put on the table, the President's budget eliminates, for example, any capital funding to housing authorities across the country to maintain the stock of public housing, wipes it out in order to cover the costs in order to pay for the tax cut and the wall.
 It severely cuts back on voucher programs, which we desperately need. And since you mentioned the Office of Fair Housing, it significantly cuts funding for fair housing. Overall, it proposes an 18 percent cut.
 in HUD, which would be a wipeout from our point of view. So anyway, thank you for coming forward today, and I'm sure the city and the housing commissioner can get more details about your complaint. Just to follow up, it was particularly under Reagan who cut 60% of HUD funding from the federal budget a long, long time ago, and it's been no add-back since, and it is disastrous. I think just one final point on this.
 People sometimes, and more now than ever, have raised the question of what should be the federal role in housing. No one questions the fact that we have $200 billion in foregone revenue by offering tax breaks to people who don't need it. And that's the value of providing people like Bill Gates with a deduction for his mortgage and his taxes. Mr. Gates does not need that break.
 But that's to the tune of $200 billion. Our total federal budget to help people shut out of the marketplace, which is over 50 million Americans, is $40 billion. So our priorities are completely reversed, and this budget will do even more damage. So thank you for joining us today. Thank you.
 Thank you. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Oh, we've had no requests. Please call the roll, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Please call item 171.
 Authorize the city attorney to take legal action against certain opioid manufacturers and distributors and other appropriate parties to recover public funds that have been and will be expended by the city as a result of the manufacture and distribution of prescription opioids.
 So this is a resolution being brought forward by all five members of the Portland City Council, and that should underscore the importance of this issue. As everyone is keenly aware, and as our last communications just highlighted, America is in the throes of an opioid epidemic.
 According to the CDC, opioids, including prescription opioids, killed more than 42,000 people in 2016. That's more than any year on record, and 40% of those deaths were due to prescription opioids.
 That's more than any year on record. I want to underscore that point. And my suspicion is that when 2017 is tallied, the results are going to be even worse. This crisis is felt acutely here in the state of Oregon. I want to give you a statistic that I heard for the first time just last week. Last year in the state of Oregon, 55 opioids were prescribed.
 for every man, woman, and child in the state of Oregon. 55. So if you didn't use your 55, somebody else did. And as significant as that number is, 55 for every man, woman, and child in the state of Oregon, that's actually down from its high of about 75 prescriptions for every man, woman, and child in Oregon.
 According to the Oregon Health Authority, three Oregonians die every week due to prescription opioid use. Further, we know that opioid abuse is a major contributor to homelessness. With chronic homelessness on the rise in our community, and many of those experiencing homelessness reporting addiction issues, local jurisdictions like the city of Portland are on the front lines of the opioid crisis.
 We're investing record amounts to address homelessness. We've committed to dramatically increasing the number of supporting housing units in our community, many of which will go to those suffering addiction issues. Our police officers respond to an increasing number of drug-related calls for service. Our firefighters provide life-saving medication to overdose victims.
 Opioid addiction can even contribute to higher care costs for the city. At the same time, drug manufacturers have shown a reckless disregard for the danger their products pose. Drug companies continue to take in profits while cities like Portland are faced with significant budget shortfalls.
 This resolution will authorize action by the city to recoup some of the funds we spent due to opioid addiction while holding drug manufacturers accountable. This is a much-needed step to help stem the tide of opioid addiction in our community. Thank you and welcome. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners.
 A lot of what I plan to say. I think Mayor Wheeler just shared, but I'll go over. Feel free to say it again. I might say some of it again. My name is Naomi Sheffield. I'm a deputy city attorney. I handle complex litigation for this city. And I'm here today to discuss the resolution authorizing the city attorney to proceed with affirmative litigation against both the opioid manufacturers and distributors. I'll cover three areas and then address any questions you have if I'm able to.
 I wanted to first address what the opioid epidemic is and how it's affected Oregon and Portland, the role that prescription drug manufacturers and distributors have played in the opioid epidemic, and then the causes of action that the city might bring, and how the litigation would likely play out. So the opioid epidemic, broadly speaking, is characterized by the significant increase in abuse of prescription and non-prescription opioids since about 2000.
 The National Survey for Drug Use and Health in 2010 showed that approximately 12 million Americans reported using painkillers for non-medical purposes.
 This abuse has led to a three-fold increase in overdose deaths in the last 15 years. And as Mayor Wheeler was saying, a significant increase just in total opioid prescription overdoses as well during that period. And Oregon has similarly seen an increase in overdose hospitalizations and deaths during this period.
 Across the country, states, counties, cities, public hospitals, families, and others have borne the cost of this epidemic. The state and local governments are forced to pay directly for increased prescription opioids, for medical treatment and addiction services, for drug treatment, and they also indirectly pay the costs for increased crime, housing issues, and jails.
 Billions of dollars are spent annually across the United States to address the epidemic, and these costs don't even take into account the economic and non-economic impacts that the epidemic has had on communities. The City of Portland has incurred costs, as Mayor Wheeler discussed, in several areas, including but not limited to Portland Fire and Rescue.
 in 2016 responded to 3,475 calls for overdoses and administered over 400 doses of naloxone, which is the medication designed to reverse an opioid overdose. Additionally, 50%, approximately 50% of the calls that are addressed by Portland Police Bureau's Drug and Vice Division related to drugs are related to opioids.
 The city also, as you are all well aware, invests millions of dollars in the Joint Office of Homelessness Services, which in addition to many of the programming that it provides, provides supportive housing services that assist people living with drug addiction. And finally, the city directly incurs costs as a self-insured provider for its employees and their families, so paying for prescription drugs and for the cost of treatment that employees and family members who are addicted to opioids.
 The public health crisis corresponds with the massive increase in prescription opioid sales.
 I actually think that Mayor Wheeler's numbers might have been for Multnomah County, because I think Oregon actually peaked at 101.2 prescription drugs for every 100 people in the year 2010. So you're saying I was being too optimistic? Well, Multnomah County, I think, were your numbers. I don't have Multnomah County's right here, but I'm pretty sure that's right. Either way, it paints a dire picture. It's a good thing, but it has been high, and it increased, peaking right around 2010 to 2012, around the country and in Oregon.
 Prescription opioid manufacturers have each made and continue to make billions of dollars annually on the sale of prescription opioids. These same manufacturers were the ones who encouraged the long-term use of opioids to treat chronic pain, and at the same time downplayed the risks of addiction related to higher dosage and long-term use of prescription opioids. These manufacturers marketed to doctors and patients, encouraging a greater use of opioids to address non-cancer pain.
 The distributors who are also the subject of the resolution have, there are approximately three distributors who dominate the market share, and all distributors have a legal obligation to monitor the ordering and dispersal of prescription opioids to make sure that they aren't diverted into the community. And all three major manufacturers have had,
 action taken against them by federal and state agencies due to their failure to uphold those obligations to monitor and report the diversion of opioids or suspicious behavior. So the litigation, hundreds of cities, I think about 370 at this point have, and counties around the country, have sued the manufacturers and distributors in federal court or in state court and have been removed. And these cases in December of
 of 2017, a multi-district litigation was formed and these cases were transferred to the Northern District of Ohio. So if the city were to file suit, we would likely be transferred into the multi-district litigation in the Northern District of Ohio. The cases set forth various causes of action depending on state law and the harms faced by the individual jurisdictions.
 But the city would likely allege causes of action for public nuisance, negligence, and RICO and Oregon RICO. The multi-district litigation is moving forward quickly. I think there's an expectation that the judge would like to push for a resolution. And so action at this point in time would be very timely. So I'm happy to answer any questions that you might have.
 Commissioner Fish? I have a couple questions. So the way we would structure this particular litigation is that we would handle it in-house?
 We would not. We would handle, there are a number of outside firms, and one of the firms that we've worked with before for the Monsanto litigation has about 60, I think, jurisdictions. So we would have an outside firm that has a number of other cases going forward. But we'd piggyback off of the existing, and then our city attorney's office would monitor the litigation. Correct.
 And you mentioned that there's a number of claims which have been asserted, including RICO, which I believe is a criminal conspiracy charge, as well as some other related claims. What are the potential damages that we can recover, and what do we have to prove as a city in terms of getting a recovery?
 So just so you know, the RICO charges, there is criminal RICO, but those would be civil RICO charges. Civil conspiracy. Civil conspiracy, yeah, exactly. So the potential, I mean, I think the potential damages that the city has probably looks to be in the millions of dollars, and the recoverable damages will vary significantly.
 based on a number of factors. First of all, I mean, the total damages across the United States probably far exceed what the distribution manufacturers are ultimately going to be able to pay. So there's obviously going to be some, if there's a settlement, some reduction because of that. But in terms of the damages, again, the kind of what I discussed are the likely damages. And I think we are looking at...
 few million dollars annually and looking backwards. So for a nuisance claim we would be proving that the sorry, the city would prove that they created, or sorry, for the negligence claim they'd be proving that they had an obligation to that they had an obligation to kind of
 meet certain standards and they acted negligently and caused the harm. And I think for the manufacturers, we're looking at a lot of what they've said and one of the positive actions that other people have brought are consumer deception claims. So a lot of the advertising and selling and pushing of these drugs to doctors and patients I think is the basis of the negligence claim that it is.
 that kind of pushing it has been negligent. And also, is the Attorney General involved in this litigation? So my understanding right now is the Oregon Attorney General is involved in a multi-state investigation under the Consumer Protection Act. I don't believe they filed suit. Some states have filed suit, but I don't believe Oregon has at this point. And the state would not be in federal litigation because the state...
 it wouldn't be removed to federal court. So what we're talking about is a multi-pronged approach to recover damages on the basis of the harm caused by the misconduct of these companies? Correct. And obviously, Multnomah County has filed because of their harms. They have been removed to federal court and transferred to the Northern District of Ohio.
 Yeah, so it's multi-pronged and then multi-theory. Again, the state will likely pursue a different legal theory because they have different legal theories available to them. I just want to make one personal observation because I'm currently, with my health challenges, I have about three pages of single-spaced drugs that I take at various times. And something that I've learned about the drugs that really pack a wallop is the smaller the pill is,
 sometimes the bigger the mischief. And, you know, OxyContin is a very small pill and yet has enormous consequences when you take it. Another example of that is steroids. A steroid pill is a tiny little pill which completely turns your nervous system upside down. And it is remarkable how liberally they are prescribed in our country for various laudable purposes, but they are given out very easily and they have huge impacts on people's behavior. So thank you.
 Very good. Commissioner Saltzman, did you have any questions? No, I didn't. Very good. Public testimony? Does that complete your presentation? That's all. Very good. Public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have four people signed up. The first three are Mary Seip, Steve Novick, and Shedrick J. Wilkins. Good morning. And Carla, could you just confirm for me the main monitors and the... It is still working over here. Good morning. Mary, why don't you start us off today? Mary Seip.
 Deadliest drug epidemic in U.S. history. That's what we're dealing with. For years while working in the health care field, I've watched the opioid manufacturers, motivated by their obscene profits, push their highly addictive, dangerous drugs, using deceptive marketing to encourage physicians to over-prescribe.
 Shortly after these drugs were approved by the FDA, the drug manufacturers convinced the medical community to establish pain as a vital sign. Each time a patient is seen, they're asked to rate their pain and how effectively their provider treated their pain. Physicians and hospitals were evaluated on how effectively they treated patients' pain. Pain clinics began cropping up everywhere. The drug manufacturers knowingly misrepresented the serious risk of addiction.
 As a result of this corporate greed, we now are in the midst of the worst drug epidemic in American history. Thousands of unsuspecting victims of this corporate greed are now sleeping on the streets, their lives destroyed. I commend City Council for bringing this resolution forward. It's time that these manufacturers and distributors were held accountable. The cost of this epidemic should not be on the shoulders of taxpayers.
 One would think that our regulatory agencies would protect citizens from this unconscionable behavior, but that's not the case. Last October, 60 Minutes did a story about how the opioid crisis was allowed to spread, aided by Congress, lobbyists, and a drug distribution industry that shipped almost unchecked hundreds of millions of pills to rogue pharmacies and pain clinics.
 Joe Ranzini, who ran the DEA's Office of Diversion Control, the division that regulates and investigates pharmaceutical industry, reported how the drug industry used their money and influence to pressure top lawyers at the DEA to take a softer approach and manage to push him out. He tells of how a parade of DEA lawyers switched sides and jumped to high-paying jobs, defending the drug industry and seriously undermining the work of the enforcement agency.
 This past Sunday, 60 Minutes did another story about how opioid makers gave $10 million to advocacy groups, which in turn promote these medications. Thank you.
 In April 2016, Congress effectively stripped the Drug Enforcement Administration of its most potent weapon against large drug companies suspected of spilling prescription narcotics onto the nation's streets. The chief advocate of the law that hobbled the DEA was Representative Tom Marino, a Pennsylvania Republican. Marino was President Trump's nominee to become the nation's next drug czar. He spent years trying to move the law forward in Congress.
 According to federal filings, $120 million was spent by major drug industry companies, distributors, chain drug stores, and pharmaceutical manufacturers, lobbying Congress on this bill and other legislation. With all the money and influence supporting the drug industry, this is going to be a tough battle, but we have to start somewhere. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Steve Novick, and I'm here today because I lost my brother Misha to OxyContin. I'm here to ask you to amend this resolution to add some language holding some individuals accountable. The New Yorker and Esquire magazines recently detailed the extensive personal involvement with members of the Sackler family, the founding family of Purdue Pharma, in the deceptive and aggressive marketing of OxyContin.
 The Sackler family, through contributions to various cultural and educational institutions, including the Guggenheim, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and both Harvard and Yale universities, have their name plastered all over those storied institutions. There is a movement to try to get those institutions to remove the Sackler family name from those buildings, programs, and professorships
 And I'm here to ask you to join that movement. I don't see why the Thacker family isn't in prison, but public shaming seems to be one way that we can address them. So what the amendment that I propose that Carla has distributed is to add a couple of whereases and be it further resolved.
 Whereas members of the Sackler family, which founded Purdue Pharma, makers of OxyContin, including Richard Sackler, were deeply and personally involved in the deceptive marketing of OxyContin. Whereas the Sackler family name has been lionized by numerous major cultural and educational institutions, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Guggenheim, and both Harvard and Yale universities.
 And then, be it further resolved that the Council urges all cultural and educational institutions to remove the Sackler family name from any and all exhibits, buildings, professorships, and programs where it is featured, and to refuse any new contributions from the Sackler family. Mayor Wheeler. Commissioner Fish. As a courtesy to a former colleague who's offered an amendment, I would like to move the amendment, ask for a second, so there can be council discussion after the testimony. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Udaly seconds. Second.
 Steve? Well, I've said what I intended to say. I mean, I really appreciate the motion and the second, and I would very much appreciate the city council taking this action. These are people who the Sackler family is a family of, frankly, mass murders. They recklessly promoted this drug, knowing it to be dangerous. And as a result, people died. In many states, that's part of the definition of second degree murder.
 Apparently they're not going to be prosecuted for second-degree murder, but it's outrageous that they have their names lionized in so many cultural and educational institutions. And I hope that many thousands of people and institutions throughout the country will call on those institutions to remove the Sackler family name from their buildings, programs, and professorships. So I would...
 the brother of Misha who died of an OxyContin overdose in May 2007, I ask you to take this action to in some way hold these individuals personally responsible for their actions. Thank you, Steve. Thank you, Steve. Appreciate it. Good morning. I'm sorry to say I have a head cold, Mr. Mayor. I can't hear what people are saying. I thought I wasn't here last week. So I should take some Sudafed, which is not an opioid, I guess. I don't know. Anyway, I...
 I do believe that pills, people that take pills, this is a part of a philosophy of rampant materialism. You think that if you have a lot of stuff, like guns or pills, that you're having a better life. And this is not true. And I don't like people when they say, these pills are keeping me alive. I had a father-in-law that took oxycodone and Xanax, and he was high, and he didn't feel the fact that he had walking pneumonia.
 he couldn't feel his own body that's why you have pain so you can feel yourself and feel what's going on he's walking around isaac height uh no pain at all and then he it was too too late his lungs were too congested that was it so uh again it's rapid materialism um uh and uh i'm glad the president is trying to make some statement that you know having a bunch of pills
 Doesn't make your life any safer. And don't tell me stuff like, these pills are keeping me alive. Some may be keeping you alive and others are not keeping you alive. And you can get a tolerance to drugs. You can take them. You have to have more and more, even if they're prescription. You get a tolerance. So it's materialism. And there are other branches of medicine like surgery and stuff like that.
 So that's all I'm going to say. Thank you. Appreciate it, all three of you. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. And the last person is Wayne Wigness. Good morning. My name is Wayne Wigness. Over the years, I've seen a number of friends go down this road. A funny thing I've noticed is when a larger body of community is allowed to form,
 They have a way of cleaning themselves up. This is a well-known principle upon which AA meetings are built on, for example. Out here on the streets, I've seen it occur in a natural fashion. And when it's broken up, no offense, but by you guys, it's not long after that that you can't recognize the person you've seen because there's nothing left for them to do but drugs and there's no one left to associate with but the wrong people.
 It's ironic how we rely on social service agencies that neatly divide people between old and young, homeless, non-homeless, addict versus non-addict. It's ironic because you might say we were evolved to feed off of one another. You know the old gain vitality from the young, the young learn from the old, the addict gains positive energy from the clean and sober, etc. People need help.
 I'm sorry, people need each other, not help. And they don't need someone pointing the finger at Big Pharma for their problems. But where have our meeting grounds gone to? What am I to do if I cannot normalize a culture in which the local bar or the local house party full of drugs is... If I cannot normalize that without becoming an addict myself? Well, apparently the only answer to that question is to point the finger at the people who happen to be selling us the pills. Okay.
 You members of council know where I'm coming from on this, so too you may understand why I see the hypocrisy in it all. Everybody wants change, yet everybody wants privacy. And everybody's willing to be organized in order to achieve it. Yet we maintain the right to point the finger at the man who's organizing us. 90% of what it takes to keep the domesticated man happy is to grant him his own box. The other 10%, that's what we call politics. That's where all the drama comes in. Let's blame Wall Street for our problems. Let's blame Donald Trump. And today we're blaming Big Pharma.
 There are a few things more apparent than the domesticated man's compulsion to blame somebody else for his own problems. But all of these things, Trump included, are cultural phenomena that we helped create every day. Just because you didn't vote for him doesn't mean you didn't help make him president. And just because you didn't sell them a pill doesn't mean you didn't help make them an addict.
 Now, I have a prediction to make. We let our strategy become one of pointing the finger at Big Pharma for our problems today. Tomorrow, they'll respond by finding a new way to make more money like they always do. Happy President's Day, Portland. Thank you. Is there anybody else, Carla? That's all. Very good. Mayor, I move the amendment. Commissioner Fish, you already moved the amendment. It's been moved and seconded, so we'll take, if you could call the roll on the amendment. Mayor? Commissioner Saltzman.
 Before we call the roll, can we hear from the attorney about her thoughts about the amendment? Certainly. So I checked with the attorneys handling litigation. They don't have any concerns. I also confirmed normally we wouldn't have something that's different to the title. I can't think of the technical term. But because it's a resolution, not an ordinance, it's okay to add this as well. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Call the roll on the amendment, please. Fish. Yes.
 former commissioner novick thank you for joining us today and for your very uh powerful testimony and i'm honored to support this amendment aye saltzman uh thank you commissioner novick for bringing this forward hi you daily hi wheeler hi the amendments adopted to the main motion call the roll fish um mayor wheeler um thank you for taking the lead with the city attorney's office in bringing this forward and rallying all of your colleagues to the cause
 I have some prepared remarks that I want to share that are the product of work done by my Chief of Staff, Sonia Schmansky, and by our tribal liaison, Laura John. And I think it's particularly important that we highlight another dimension of this epidemic that I would not have known about had Laura John, our tribal liaison, not shared this story with us.
 Of course, I'm very proud of today's action and for the leadership it shows, and I'm grateful that Commissioner Novick has helped us strengthen the resolution. But I want to highlight, Mayor, briefly one aspect of this crisis that has been, in my perspective, underreported. Portland is home to the ninth largest Native American population in the country. Our Native community is descended from more than 380 tribes and adds an incalculable richness to our city and region. This community is also uniquely affected by the opioid crisis.
 The Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians, which represents 57 sovereign governments across the Northwest United States, held its winter convention in Portland last month. During that convention, the group passed a resolution declaring, quote, support for tribal nations taking on big pharma to combat the opioid epidemic in Indian country, end quote. And I want to quote from two findings from their resolution, quote,
 Quote, whereas the opioid epidemic claims lives in such a way that cumulatively threatens to decimate our individual nations, as the death rate of American Indians from opioid overdose is the highest of any racial demographic, stealing the lives of 8.4 American Indians per every 100,000 in 2014. Quote,
 end quote, whereas the conduct of pharmaceutical companies has caused a health crisis in Indian country that threatens the health, welfare, and economic security and political integrity of the tribal nations and their citizens, end quote. Pretty powerful stuff. The opioid crisis commands our attention and our action. This lawsuit is about recovering damages for the costs we've incurred managing this issue, and it also makes an important public statement.
 Over the last generation, the federal government has abandoned local communities time and time again, disinvesting in affordable housing, homelessness services, crumbling roads and bridges, and urgent public health crises ranging from pollution in our rivers to drugs on our streets. None of us in this room has the power to compel the federal government, and in particular this administration, to do the right thing and to appropriately regulate this industry. But we do have a voice, and collectively our voices have power.
 Today, I proudly stand with my colleagues and with communities across the country calling for accountability and for action in the face of this crisis. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. I'm also very pleased to see this come forward.
 Marketing and overprescription of opioids is a truly despicable act of exploitation. It's mind-boggling listening to some of these statistics and stories. Entities we trust with our health are preying on our pain and leaving a wake of ruin, grief, and untold cost to families and communities. So I'm very pleased to vote aye. Wheeler.
 All right. The resolution is adopted as amended. Thank you, everybody. It's my understanding that the presenters for item 172 are not here. Is that correct? Can we move 172 to next week then? Do we need a time certain for that or can we just move it? All right. We'll move item 172. Why don't you read it, Carla, just so people know what we're talking about. I'm sorry.
 172, accept recommendations of the Special Appropriations Committee for a grant award from the $350,000 allocated to competitive special appropriations program during the fall bump process. Very good. Item 173, please.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for the construction of Portsmouth University Park sewer rehabilitation, project number E10335, for an estimated cost of $4,110,000. And this is a second reading. Is there any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item 174 please.
 authorize a contract with Santec Consulting Services, Inc. in the amount of $749,190 for the North Willamette Boulevard Bridge Main Replacement Project. Commissioner Fish? Thank you, Mayor. We're pleased to be joined today by Theresa Elliott, the Chief Engineer of the Portland Water Bureau, who's going to give us a brief presentation on this matter.
 This ordinance would authorize the Portland Water Bureau to authorize a professional, technical, and expert contract for the Willamette Boulevard Bridge main replacement project. The consultant under contract would design and develop plans and specifications for a construction contract to replace the 20-inch cast iron pipeline crossing the Willamette Boulevard Bridge, which is in need of repair. I will just give you a preview, colleagues, that this project,
 what seems like a fairly dry matter issue is actually a lot more interesting and teresa is here to walk us through it welcome good morning mayor good morning actually good morning mayor and commissioners for the record i'm teresa elliott chief engineer portland water bureau i'm talking about the seeking your approval for the professional technical expert contract with
 with Stantec for engineering services associated with the Vlamet Boulevard Bridge main replacement project. We have an existing 20-inch cast iron pipe that is attached to a bridge that's owned by Burlington North Santa Fe Railroad Company over the Vlamet Boulevard.
 The 20-inch pipe is sized at the margins between what we serve for our distribution system and our supply system, and this pipe is in very poor condition. We made some repairs a couple years ago to tide us over while we did the permanent design and replacement of the project.
 This pipeline serves about 5,000 customers in the North Portland, St. John's, and Cathedral Park neighborhoods, as well as a bunch of commercial and industrial customers in the Rivergate area. The pipe also provides us an alternate connection to our 36-inch pipe.
 36th St. John's Crossing of the Willamette River that serves the west side of Portland. This project will include a 24-inch pipe that we're taking it off of the bridge and burying it underneath the railroad tracks. We're going to bore under the tracks. And we will increase our overall resiliency in the north Portland area.
 The solicitation that we used for this project was a use the city of Portland's procurement methods for qualifications-based selection for PD contracts. We received two proposals. Stantec was the most qualified responsive proposer. Their contract amount is for $7.
 $749,190. They will be using seven sub-consultants, four of which are certified DMWESB consultants, and they're expected to perform 20% of the work and meeting or exceeding the city's aspirational goals. We have a level of confidence for the project at this point since we're starting design of low to moderate.
 Once we finish design, we will be adjusting our cost estimates and adjust our level of confidence. This project will be constructed using the design-bid-build methodology.
 And during design, the project team will work with our outreach folks to, with the neighbors and the public that are affected by the project to minimize impacts to them as much as we can. And at this point, we don't have any known concerns or issues with the neighbors. And I'm available to answer questions.
 I had one question, Chief Elliott. You alluded to this in your comments, but is it fair to say that when we have an opportunity to take a pipe of this significance and take it off a bridge, in this case a railroad bridge, and instead bury it, that that advances our resilience goals? Yes.
 Yes. So replacing the pipe advances our resilience goals, but taking off of any bridge and burying it underneath is by far the safer, more resilient approach than actually having it attached to the bridge. And we have a lot of pipes that are on bridges for which we pay a fee. This happens to be a bridge owned by the railroads, and so we're essentially, for which we once upon a time paid a fee. So we're decoupling the pipe from the bridge. We're basically, we're
 we're burying it and we're upgrading the pipe is that correct that is correct we will still pay a fee to for crossing the railroad but we are decoupling it from the bridge thank you so this is for the design work is that correct that is correct and so will you come back to the council or does this authorize you once the design work is completed to actually continue with the work
 This authorizes us for engineering services, drawing design, and construction support services. We will be coming back to you for the construction contract, which is probably in the $4 million range. And what's the time frame for that? Probably 2020. 2020. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Any further questions on this item? Very good. This is a first reading. I'm sorry, is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up.
 Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, Teresa. Please call item number 175. Thank you. Great presentation.
 Authorize application to the Oregon Office of State Fire Marshal for a grant in the amount of $62,924 for flammable liquids, bulk storage, specialty training for Portland Fire and Rescue hazmat technicians and Station 24 firefighters. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman, did you have any introductory comments? No.
 No introductory comments. I don't know whether anybody from Fire and Rescue is there. Yep, they're standing by. Yeah, very good. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Sean Christensen. I'm the Hazmat Coordinator for Portland Fire and Rescue. And I'm here to discuss this agenda item and answer any questions you may have.
 Colleagues, could you remind us where Station 24 is? Station 24 is over off of Interstate Boulevard near Swan Island. So they are set up for either shipboard or flammable liquid incidents. Okay, thank you. Very good. Any further questions? Do we have any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, 176.
 Update auditor code to conform to May 2017 charter amendments that protect the auditor's independence and add a duty. Amend auditor code following passage of new state law that preserves city's privilege when information is disclosed to auditor for the purposes of an audit or investigation. Very good. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall-Caballero.
 I'm here today to close the circle on recent electoral and legislative successes for the city, which we set out to achieve more than a year ago.
 In May, voters approved charter amendments that you referred to the ballot at my request to increase the independence of the auditor's office. One month later, Governor Brown signed into law protections the city pursued that will allow auditors and investigators in the auditor's office access to city information without causing legal protections to be waived. The changes before you update city code to reflect the charter amendments, which included allowing the auditor to seek independent legal advice,
 giving the auditor more autonomy over staffing decisions, designating the auditor as a contracting agency, and authorizing the auditor to submit directly to counsel budget requests based on the auditor's priorities. I'm also asking you to codify the right of full access to information for two independent police review and the lobbyists and political consultant registration programs. This is a right that you've already extended to audit services and the ombudsman through the Charter Amendments. I
 I'm asking that you do the same for the other investigative functions in my office that exist only in code, knowing that that state law now protects the city's most sensitive information from disclosure.
 Before I take your questions, allow me to repeat my thanks to you for the critical role that City Council played in paving the way for voters to consider the charter amendments and pursuing the legislative change that both removed a barrier to our audits and investigations and strengthened the city's ability to protect legally privileged information. I commend this council for its commitment to accountability and transparency. Madam Auditor, is this the first time you've appeared before council with your new council? No.
 With my new counsel. Your new attorney? Yes. Shall we introduce him? Yes. This is Todd Albert. He's the general counsel to the auditor's office. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. Good morning. It's good to see you again. I liked him immediately when I met him, Mayor. He did a stint as a public defender in Manhattan. Ah, very good. Welcome. Thank you. It's good to be here. Any further questions for the auditor?
 Well, I appreciate the review that you've given me and my team on this. I think these are all common sense adaptations based on the public record we've already established and the goals we've already established together. So I think this is good work. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla, before I move it? Yes. One person signed up. Dan Handelman. Coming up, sir. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and members of Council. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. And we're not 100% clear about the difference between the existing code and what's happening with this in terms of the sharing of confidential documents with third parties. We want to make absolutely sure, though,
 that the citizen review committee, which is not mentioned in the code or the charter, as having access to such confidential documents, does not get shut out from being able to review the confidential documents that they are reviewing at this point.
 I don't know if that requires another code change or another legal analysis of some kind, but it's of grave concern that I looked through the existing code and I don't see anything that even says beyond the fact that they have to pass a background check that the CRC has access to confidential files. So I just want to make sure that's not going to be affected.
 It's also important that the City Attorney, or the Auditor's Attorney came to the table. We hadn't realized that she had hired an attorney, which was something that Port and Copwatch and other people in the community have pushed for for a long time.
 to ensure that there's true independence by IPR. I'm not sure if that's related to why the city attorney's office stopped sending a representative to CRC meetings lately, but it would be nice to get some public airing of why that's happened. Two months ago, they said they weren't going to show up, and then two people showed up, and one went away. And then this past month, there was no city attorney at the CRC meeting.
 And it's helpful to have that for legal advice when they're deciding on the fate of officers, whether or not they violated policy. So now I just have a minute left, so I'm going to talk a little bit about what happened last week where their auditor had the –
 OIR group present to City Council. First of all, just for clarification, that part of the ordinance was not included when the first IPR ordinance was passed. The City Council had to direct Auditor, City Auditor Gary Blackmer, to add something about shootings and deaths. And he decided to have those reviews done rather than let the CRC have appeals of deadly force cases.
 So that's another sensitive issue for the public and we want to make sure that you keep that on your radar. It's also
 The fact that we were not allowed to give oral testimony at council last week is the first time in 15 years we haven't been able to do that on that particular matter. And I think it would be good for democracy if instead of making a blanket policy around public testimony for reports that the mayor asked the other members of council whether or not they want to take...
 public testimony. I think there were a lot of people that were disappointed and I'm very very disappointed by the fact that the mayor's office put out that our saying there wasn't public testimony taken was untrue because we mean you know we meant public testimony at the city council and it's just not appropriate for putting out on social media that there was untruth being spreader.
 I'll take that at face value. Again, it is at the discretion of the presiding officers to whether or not public testimony is provided. It has been my policy to accept public testimony for resolutions and first readings of ordinances, not reports or presentations. And the reason that I've stated for that
 is that we contract for a specific purpose for people to come back to us. They have an obligation to us to...
 to provide the information that we've asked for. And in fact, what OIR is charged with doing is reporting back to the City Council. They could choose to do that simply by writing and sending us a report. I chose to have them provide that report in public so that people could hear what the conversation was, what their recommendations were, and what our questions were. And I further,
 opened up the opportunity for public testimony through written, excuse me, I opened up the opportunity for written testimony. And I assume I will receive quite a lot of written testimony related to the issue, which we will digest. But that was the call that I chose to make and I'll stand behind it. I would like to ask the auditor to come back to address- Mayor, can I just make one comment? Commissioner Fish.
 I also want to add that we did get extensive written testimony from Portland Cop Watch, from League of Women Voters, and others. And I found getting that testimony ahead of the hearing very helpful, and it actually informed some of the conversation we had with the OIR group. So I appreciated the fact that there was written testimony, and I think it was helpful to the process.
 Commissioner Fish, if I just might point out, though... It wasn't... It was a comment to the mayor. I understand, but the council's not allowed to meet at a social function when you have a quorum, and the only time that we get to have a dialogue among all of you is in these chambers. So cutting off the ability to have public oral testimony cuts out that ability to have that kind of interactive dialogue. Thank you. Appreciate it. Madam Monitor, if you wouldn't mind, the question was raised, is there any...
 retrenchment of current access that the Citizens Review Committee would have or any intention to reduce their amount of access to documents as currently exists under the current ordinance? No, the section of code that this amends does not apply to the Citizen Review Committee section. And also they,
 operate off of confidential information. If you've ever gone to a CRC meeting, they aren't allowed to say the officers' names. And so they,
 have access to the investigative file and that is what they use to make a determination at the end of their hearing. Very good. I appreciate that. And Mr. Handelman, I will have legal counsel get back to you directly with regard to why they were not in attendance at last month's meeting. I don't know the answer to that question right off and I'm not sure that the counsel that is here present in the chambers today would necessarily know the answer to that. So I will direct legal counsel to get back to you directly.
 Thank you. Thank you, Madam Audit. I actually have the answer to that question. Oh, perfect. If you want to give it. Excellent. I discussed this with Tracy Reeve. And when someone from her office was attending the CRC meetings, they were there to answer questions about public meetings law. And what we decided was that if there was something that we would anticipate that would come up, that they would need to be there, that we would notify them.
 City Attorney Reeve would send someone to that meeting, but that they didn't need to, as a matter of course, come to every single meeting for that purpose. And when a volunteer on the Citizen Review Committee has a question, they submit them in writing, and members of the City Attorney's Office respond to their questions about the case file in writing, so that that's not being discussed in the open hearing. Okay.
 Very good. Thank you Madam for that clarification. Thank you for your presentation. Colleagues, anything else? Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. And we are adjourned until 2 p.m. today.
 would jeopardize the public interest, health, safety, or welfare. Therefore, unless there's an objection by any member of the council, Commissioner Saltzman will participate in today's hearing by teleconference for the entire session. Commissioner Fritz was also provided the opportunity, but she is unable to participate. Is there any objection to Commissioner Saltzman participating by phone? Sorry, Dan, there's no objection. Great. Please call the roll.
 Fritz? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business. I'm going to shorten this a little bit. This is a hearing. There will be the opportunity for people to testify. You should assume that when people testify, not everybody will share the same opinion that you do. Our objective is to make sure that everybody feels safe, welcome, and respected in this chamber, regardless.
 of their viewpoint or perspective. For that reason, we ask people not to applaud nor to boo anyone. A simple thumbs up is good, or a thumbs down if you don't like what you are hearing. Disruptions of people's testimony or counsel deliberations is,
 is not allowed if anybody disrupts either people trying to testify or the City Council trying to deliberate, you'll be asked to stop. If you don't stop, you'll be asked to leave. And if you don't ask to leave, when asked to do so by security, you're subject to arrest for trespassing.
 That's a very rare circumstance. We don't want that to happen today, so let's all just be respectful of the fact that we are a community, and we may approach the same issue from different perspectives and have different viewpoints. So with that, Carla, could you please read today's item? Thank you.
 Item 177, appeal on behalf of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association against Design Commission's decision of approval for design review with modifications and concurrent greenway review for the Fremont Apartments, a 17-story mixed-use building at 1650 Northwest Nato Parkway, LU16.
 278-621-DZMGW. Very good. Thank you. And first off today, the city attorney will be making some procedural announcements describing today's hearing. Thank you, Mayor.
 Today is an evidentiary hearing. This means you may submit new evidence to counsel in support of your arguments. I'm going to talk a little bit about the order of testimony today. We begin with a staff report by the Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and has 10 minutes to present their case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal go next. Each of those persons will have three minutes to speak to counsel. Thank you.
 After that, the principal opponent, in this case the applicant, has 15 minutes to address the City Council and rebut appellant's presentation.
 After the principal opponent, council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal, and each of those persons will have three minutes. Finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of opponents to the appeal. Council may then close the hearing, deliberate, and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is a tentative vote, the council will set a future date for adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. If council takes a final vote today, that will conclude the matter before council. Thank you.
 There are several guidelines for those who will be testifying before council today. First, any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record must be given to the council clerk, Carla, on that side of chambers, after you testify. Similarly, originals or copies of slides, photos, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to council during your testimony, including any PowerPoint presentations, must be given to the council clerk to make sure they become part of the record.
 Second, testimony must be directed to the approval criteria. Any testimony, arguments, and evidence you present must be directed to the applicable approval criteria for this land use review or other criteria in the city's comprehensive plan or zoning code you believe apply to the decision. BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as part of their staff report to council.
 Third, you must raise an issue clearly enough to give Council and other parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you do not raise issues with enough specificity, you will be precluded from appealing to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue.
 And finally, the applicant must identify constitutional challenges to conditions of approval. If the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. And that concludes my remarks. Very good. Do any members of the council wish to declare a conflict of interest?
 Mayor, I don't have a conflict of interest or ex parte conversations to disclose, but as is our custom, both proponents and opponents of the appeal have met with members of my staff. Very good. Does any member of the public wish to ask Commissioner Fish about those contacts? Does any other member of the city council wish to declare a conflict of interest? No other member of the council has declared a conflict of interest.
 Do any members of the council have ex parte contacts to declare or information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose other than what Commissioner Fish has just indicated? I would like to say that I've seen a number of newspaper articles and news stories on this subject. Does anybody wish to ask me any questions about that? Seeing none, any other commissioners have any questions?
 ex parte contacts to declare information gathered outside of this hearing that they'd like to disclose? My office has received written testimony, and at least one member of my staff has met with individuals involved, but nothing to declare. Very good. Anybody in this chamber have any questions for Commissioner Udailey based on the information that she has just provided?
 Mayor, could we have the two members of council whose staff had met with some of the parties specify whether or not their staff conveyed that information to them or did not? Please. They did not convey any information. So that's a good question. So what I get in advance of all land use hearings is a memo from staff laying out the issues. Okay.
 And in some instances, it contains recommendations from staff or issues to be highlighted, but it generally doesn't contain any ex parte information. It's the staff view. It's almost like a memorandum from a law clerk in a judicial proceeding. And that is what I get generally in these proceedings. Does anybody have any questions of Commissioner Fish on this matter? No.
 Seeing none, have any members of the council made any visits to the site involved in this matter? I'm certainly familiar with the site. I run by it periodically. I'm familiar with the site. I haven't done any particular inspection. I'll take you with me next time. Very good. Does any member of the public wish to ask any questions with regard to disclosed visits to the site?
 Seeing none. Do council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin the hearing? Commissioner Saltzman, I assume we're good to go for you? Yes. All right, very good. So let's start with the staff report. Approximately 10 minutes. Good afternoon. Name for the record. We don't need people's addresses. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Ben Nielsen, Senior Planner with the Bureau of Development Services.
 Today I'll be providing some basic context for the Fremont Apartments proposal and summarizing the final findings and decision of the Design Commission. There is a long list of appeal issues to address, so I may need an extra three to four minutes. Just for the records, the staff report is an approximate time. Okay. And so you take the time you think you need to lay out the issue for the council. I appreciate that. Thank you.
 First, the zoning context. The site is located in the North Pearl subarea of the River District Subdistrict of the larger Central City Plan District. The site is zoned EXDG, which is short for Central Employment with Design and Greenway Overlays. The site has a base floor area ratio, or FAR, of 2 to 1 maximum. Additional FAR up to 3 to 1 may be earned through bonuses, transfers from historic resources,
 or from transfers in a central city master plan. Three types of bonus were earned on this site, the residential bonus, the locker room bonus, and the eco-roof bonus, together equaling 2.72 to 1 of bonus FAR. Total proposed FAR on the site equals 4.26 to 1, leaving some bonus FAR unused. The site has a base height limit of 100 feet.
 Seventy-five additional feet may be allowed through modification to the North Pearl subarea height opportunity area standards. Areas where this is allowed are shown in green crosshatching on the map. Floors above 100 feet in height have limits on their floor plate size. The height of this proposal tops out at 175 feet at the top of the parapet, with an additional 10 feet granted through modification to the base zone standard for a rooftop mechanical screen. More on this later.
 This land use review consists of three parts, each with its own approval criteria. For the design review component, the approval criteria are the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines and the River District Design Guidelines. These two documents are separate from the zoning code. For requested modifications through design review, the approval criteria are found in zoning code section 33.825.040.
 For the Greenway review component, the approval criteria are found in Zoning Code Section 33.440.350 and the separate Willamette Greenway design guidelines. The site is located along Northwest NATO Parkway adjacent to the Willamette River and at the end of an existing segment of the Greenway Trail. The Fremont Bridge lies to the northwest. The site is 72,080 square feet in area and is essentially flat.
 It is currently developed as a surface parking lot for the adjacent three-story office building. And here's a bird's eye view of the site. The green line on the image shows the extent of the Greenway Trail in this area. The proposal can be summarized as a 17-story residential mixed-use building with approximately 6,600 square feet of retail space on the ground floor and 275 residential units above.
 152 parking spaces are proposed in a garage on a portion of the ground floor and in the basement. The proposal also includes a 60-foot wide pedestrian plaza on the north side and reconstructs the Greenway Trail on this site. The Design Commission ultimately voted 3 to 1 to approve this land use review. The appellant cites 13 design guidelines as not being met.
 challenges six of the seven modification requests, and challenges interpretations of four sections of the zoning code. I'll briefly touch on each of these points with responses from the Design Commission's final findings and decision. Guidelines A2, A3, A3-1, A5-1-1, A5-1-5, A5-3, A5-4, and C-4 speak to the proposal's response to its context.
 The design commission found that the proposal supports the river and the Greenway Trail, has a massing concept that takes the view of the Fremont Bridge into account, incorporates a similar scale and massing in its building as other development in the North Pearl, and incorporates balconies, large areas of glazing, active ground floor spaces, and the large plaza, which reflect the North Pearl context and orient towards the river.
 Guidelines A4 and B5 speak to the proposal's response to the pedestrian environment. The design commission found that these guidelines are met with a series of storefront windows along the building's three public frontages, balconies, decks, roof terraces, and windows which orient to the river and the plaza, and the restaurant space which helps to activate both. Guideline C5, design for coherency.
 The design commission found that the proposal meets this guideline by setting consistent rules for articulation and fenestration of the building's distinct masses with a well-integrated material palette. From the Willamette River design guidelines, the design commission found the proposal meets these guidelines by approximating the city's 200-foot block pattern, providing attractive ground floor uses along the greenway.
 excuse me, active ground floor uses along the Greenway, providing large areas of glazing and balconies overlooking the Greenway and connecting the Greenway Trail to Northwest NATO through the proposed plaza. Regarding requested modifications to development standards, the appellant states that it was not mandatory for the Design Commission to approve any of the requested modifications and that they should have instead been reviewed through the adjustment process. In addition to providing approval criteria for modification requests...
 The zoning code also gives authority to the design commission to consider modifications of site-related development standards as part of the design review process. These modifications are done as part of design review and are not required to go through the adjustment process. However, modifications that are denied may be requested as an adjustment through the adjustment process.
 Moving into the modifications, modification number one addresses height and seeks to allow rooftop mechanical equipment and screening which extend above the height limit of 175 feet to be located closer than 15 feet to the roof edges on the street-facing facade and to allow them to cover 73% of the tower roof area, which is greater than 10% allowed by this code section. The design commission found that this mechanical screen is well integrated into the tower massing
 and that the purpose of the standard, which controls overall bulk and intensity of development, is met on balance with the small portion of the building footprint affected compared to the total building. Modification number two addresses standards for bicycle racks and seeks to allow long-term bicycle parking racks hung on walls in the bike storage room to be spaced at 1 foot 4 inches by 6 feet rather than the required 2 feet by 6 feet.
 The Commission found that the narrower spacing allows more room for active uses on the ground floor, better meeting several guidelines. And they found that the purpose of the standard, which is intended to ensure that bikes can be locked without undue inconvenience and are reasonably safeguarded from damage, is met with a condition of approval requiring a minimum six-inch vertical stagger between racks.
 Modification number three addresses the North Pearl subarea height opportunity area standards and seeks to allow the height of the building to be 175 feet, exceeding the base height of 100 feet, and to allow the length of the building facades above 100 feet in height to exceed 120 feet in length.
 The design commission found that shifting building program in mass from the podium to the tower and allowing tower dimensions to exceed 120 feet in length allows for more of the Fremont Bridge to be visible than a building built up to 100 feet base height, better meeting guideline A2, and allows additional light and air to penetrate to the greenway and river
 Over lower parts of the building. So could you help me understand? Absolutely. And by the way, for everybody, regardless of where you are on this, questions stop the clock. So don't feel like it takes from your time. So what does the orange box represent in this diagram? The orange box in this diagram represents a building mass built up to the 100-foot base height.
 And is that allowed under the base zoning? That's allowed under Chapter 33.510, Central City Plan, yes. That would be considered the base zone height for the central city in this area. Got it. And so what you were just saying then was they were allowed to build up higher as a result of bringing the base in closer. Is that a fair interpretation of what you were saying? Yes. The commission found that if they were able to lower the podium massing, which is the –
 I don't think I have a thing to point out here, but it's the lower stories of the building that extend out on either side. I see. They could get more view of the Fremont Bridge, and this view is taken from the Fields Park. I see. Thank you. Regarding the purpose of the standard, which is lengthy, the Design Commission found that it's also met. The purpose includes goals of increasing visual permeability, preserving visual and physical access to the river,
 allowing for light and air to penetrate to the public realm and ensuring that bonus height does not significantly affect views of the Fremont Bridge. The Commission also found that these moves balance the purpose to develop a dense, active urban waterfront, while at the same time retaining the iconic stature of the Fremont Bridge in the skyline.
 To better meet that purpose statement, the Commission imposed a condition of approval requiring the retail space on the ground floor to remain in retail sales and services use for the life of the building. Modification number four addresses the required open area development standards shadow standard and seeks to allow up to 84% of the required plaza to be in shade at noon on April 21st of any year.
 The standard requires that no more than 50% of the plaza be in shade at that time. The design commission found that the proposed plaza width and location on the north side of the site between the existing office building and the proposed building approximate a standard right-of-way in the Pearl District and reflects the emerging development pattern in the North Pearl waterfront area.
 They also found that this allows for preservation of views to the river from Northwest NATO Parkway and portions of the North Pearl, such as the future intersection of Northwest 12th and Raleigh. The Design Commission found that the purpose of the standard, which is intended to allow for adequate amounts of light and air, in addition to providing recreational opportunities and options for pedestrian circulation,
 was met on balance as the plaza would only be 26.5% covered in shade by 1 p.m. on April 21st. Excuse me, I should have advanced my slide there. Modification number five addresses two of the North Pearl sub-area waterfront development standards.
 The first part of the modification addresses the setbacks for all development from the Willamette River Standard and seeks to allow portions of the building over 35 feet in height to extend into the setback area as shown on the diagram in red. For this standard, the Commission found that better views of the Fremont Bridge are provided by shifting massing to the tower and allowing it to extend into the setback.
 They also found that subsequent lower podium heights allow for larger areas of planted rooftop closer to the Greenway Trail. Before you move off of that, because I know this is a point of contention, so I want to make sure I understand it. Yes. So the building clearly is in the Greenway setback, and you are saying that there are exceptions made to the setback rule there.
 that have to do with the view of the Fremont Bridge. Could you explain that? Absolutely. So the diagonal line is the setback in question here. There's actually two Greenway setbacks, and we're talking about the diagonal line. Got it. The commission found, and this is related to one of the other modifications to height, allowing the building to go up to 175 feet.
 That moving some of the massing from the podium, which is the lower portion of the building shown here. That was the orange box in your previous? Right. That would extend up significantly higher here. Okay. The 100 feet. Okay. And so it is at the discretion in this case of design review if they take less of the massing from the base and put it into the height. They have that discretion to cross into the diagonal greenway setback? Correct.
 Yes, through a modification. Through a modification. Yes. Okay, thank you. Can I ask a question? Yes. On a couple of occasions, you've mentioned better views of the Fremont Bridge. And so from the code perspective, what is the zone that's encompassed that has a view of the Fremont Bridge, and how do we determine whose view we're talking about?
 In general, when I'm talking about views of the Fremont Bridge, I'm talking about views from the Fields Park, which is really one of the primary places you can see it in a public setting.
 And that's basically what the design commission focused their findings on as well. No one was taking into account any private views, only public views. And I might add that this view is not a protected view, so we're just working within the guidelines, within the context of the design guidelines approval criteria to preserve some of that view.
 So I had a little something to do with the Fields Park. So let's assume this building was coming to us before the Fields Park was built. And what would then be the perspective that we'd be concerned about? I think we'd have a lot more difficult time looking at views of the bridge as being an encumbrance on this project. We'd probably be taking a look at views only from rights-of-way, such as Northwest 12th Avenue or Northwest 13th Avenue, which I don't believe are blocked by this building. Okay. Thank you.
 I also have a question. Commission, you're daily. Sure. Thank you. It appears that the property adjacent on the north side has the same zoning. Correct. How about to the south? It also has the same zoning. Okay. So when and if those lots are developed, we're going to be looking at similar height allowances. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Continuing on to the second part of the modification to this standard,
 the maximum building dimension standard to allow the building dimension perpendicular to the river to be 230 feet 9 inches in length, exceeding the maximum dimension allowed of 200 feet. For this standard, the design commission found that allowing the building to be longer perpendicular to the river results in a narrower building parallel to it, better meeting guidelines that aim for better connections, visual and physical, to the river and Greenway Trail.
 For both standards, the Commission found that the purpose statement, which states simply that the standards are intended to assure both frequent views of the river and physical connections to the river and its activities, are not negated by a modification to either standard.
 Last modification. Modification number seven addresses parking area setbacks and seeks to allow a required landscape setback between the south lot line and the driveway to be two feet wide and screened with a three-foot tall concrete wall for a portion of its length and with three-foot tall evergreen shrubs for the remainder instead of the required five-foot setback planted with trees and shrubs.
 The Design Commission found that allowing the setback area to be reduced in width allows for a larger area of the ground floor along Northwest NATO to be programmed with either active ground floor uses within the building or devoted to pedestrian-oriented open space. They found that the purpose of the standard, which is intended to create an environment that is inviting to pedestrians and transit users, is met with the urban frontage along Northwest NATO Parkway.
 Regarding the appellant's final three challenges to... Can you go back to that? Yes, of course. Does that mean that that space is required to remain an open space? So we're just looking at the... It's probably hard to see on the screen, but it's a blue dotted area on the right side of the drawing. Right, I see it. Yeah. That's required technically to have a five-foot setback with plantings in it, including trees. Okay.
 Right. But you're saying the exception is being given for the smaller set of trees? Yes, exactly. Because it creates more of an open space. Is that a public open space or a private open space? That's referring to the plaza. So that's a public plaza. Okay. Thank you. Plaza on the left side of this diagram. Got it. Yep. Okay.
 Sorry. Regarding the appellant's final three challenges to interpretations of the zoning code, staff has submitted information about those interpretations to council staff and contends that the code has been interpreted and applied fairly and accurately. And I can, of course, go into more detail if desired. The alternatives facing council today deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to approve the land use review
 Deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to approve with additional conditions of approval and or design revisions. Grant the appeal and overturn the design commission's decision to approve, thereby denying the appeal. That concludes my presentation. Very good. Thank you. Any questions? Thank you. Very good. Next up is the appellant, 10 minutes. I realize this is a complex issue, so unless
 legal counsel overrides me if you need more time the way we have historically handled this is we would document that additional time over ten minutes and give the principal opponent that same additional time is that that's good okay great yes that's fine so start with your ten minutes and let's see how you do
 Thank you, Mayor and members of the Council. My name is Jeff Kleinman. I'm the attorney for the Pearl District Neighborhood Association. We're going to try to keep it within the 10, which means I've got to move very quickly. Thank you. Because the folks to my right have architectural and planning expertise vis-à-vis the criteria here, and I'll introduce them, and they'll do the lion's share here. But basically what we're talking about in a nutshell is a project that might work
 elsewhere on a city block at some remove from the river, but not in its position on Front Avenue adjacent to the river and the Greenway.
 The height, the massing, the FAR, and other features of the proposal are inappropriate to the site and can't be approved under the approval criteria we've addressed in the appeal document. Now, it might be that there would be an argument to be made if this project was,
 We're able to argue, if the proponents could argue, that we're providing affordable units and we've got to have this height and this mass and get close to the greenway to jam those affordable units in. But that's not the case. This application came in under the wire and there are no affordable units proposed.
 The application depends upon several modifications, as I say, none of which can be justified under the standard for those modifications. And it also depends upon a stacking, not just of the modifications to the standards, but also of two totally inappropriate precedents, the waterfront pearl and on the other side of the Fremont Bridge, the Bridgetown Lofts, which are,
 far, far more respectful of the site of the river and of the approval standards. And I was very familiar with the waterfront pearl, not so much with the Bridgetown Lofts. I suggest taking a walk on the greenway up that way and seeing how respectful that development is and how little precedent it provides for this project.
 This project does set, if approved, a very dangerous precedent for riverfront development in this area, which will wipe out the view of the Fremont Bridge. There will be no further argument against such development if this is approved. So, for the benefit of Council and not to take too much time, we have prepared draft findings of
 allowance of the appeal and denial of the application. I've given those to the clerk at the commencement of the hearing, and there are copies for counsel and copies also for the city attorney. So with that, let me introduce first Peter Gramlich, who has an architectural background, and then George Galster will speak, and he is a distinguished professor of planning.
 Thank you, Jeffrey. Greetings, Mr. Mayor, city commissioners. Thank you for the chance to lend my voice to the discussion. I'm the tireless one at the moment between the attorney and the urban planner. I also own Gramlich Design and Planning in Portland. My degrees are in architecture, and I am a LEED-accredited professional. I've worked for big firms in Boston and in Germany, and I've helped design projects in the U.S., Europe, the Middle East, and Asia, including high-rises.
 I teach architecture at PCC Sylvania, where my students learn about building design and construction and are part of the next generation of people who will help shape the Portland of the future. As we emphasize in class, architecture is inseparable from proper planning. Both are at issue here. I've tried to evaluate this Fremont Place proposal as one that my students might submit for studio review. If they did, it would not likely get past the schematic. It wouldn't.
 In other words, we would say, back to the drawing board. And why? Because this proposal violates the most basic principle of design. First, do no harm to your surroundings. The city has both mandatory and discretionary criteria to prevent such harm from taking place. And in this case, as outlined in the appeal statement filed by the association, the project as proposed violates most of these criteria.
 Speaking from my expertise and experience and taking all of the approval criteria into account, I would simply note the following four points. One, the project has an inappropriate massing concept, one which does not respect Portland's block pattern and does not reflect the identity of the Pearl District neighborhood. It detracts from the neighborhood by sealing it off from the river and setting a precedent for more of the same in the future. At its core, it is not part of the neighborhood. It is a barrier. Two,
 It detracts from the character of the waterfront area rather than reinforcing it. It seals the Willamette River Greenway off from the neighborhood and the public as a whole, effectively seizing it for private benefit. Three. The proposal does not in any way complement the context of existing buildings. It instead establishes a dangerous new context, a precedent for overscaled massing and for walling off this stretch of the Willamette in its entirety. And finally, four.
 The proposed design itself lacks a clear vision or even unifying elements. It tends to present itself as a contorted Rubik's Cube, twisting and convoluting itself in an attempt to maximize out floor area. As you take these failings into account, bear in mind that code also requires each of the requested modifications to the city's standards to, quote, better meet design review requirements. In other words, the modifications must benefit the design itself, not just the applicant's pocketbook. Here, they do not.
 You should send this project back to the drawing board for a design that meets the city's requirements. Thank you for your consideration. And I'll pass it on to George. I'll just ask you one question. In light of the likelihood that there's going to be additional development along that stretch of the river, what standard would you have us apply in terms of the context? I'm somewhat reluctant to embrace a standard that says we have to be –
 bound by a context that is likely within a number of years to change. And it's a context that's a residue of a different set of uses along the river. So what is the appropriate standard where we know there's going to be redevelopment? Sure, that's a valid point. Of course, we can't just say the only context we're responding to is that which existed from 1960 and low-slung industrial buildings, right?
 Context is a sensitive, delicate, important matter and I think it lies at the core of everything we're talking about here. I suppose another way to think about it is precedent. What kind of precedent do we want to be setting with the public and private faces that we're presenting our citizens, our greenway, our natural areas, our parks, our views? So I think it's hard to lecture as to what context should be.
 I just am wary about the precedent that we're setting if we build something of this scale and size. Good afternoon. There are three major reasons for sustaining the appeal of the PDNA. The Design Commission incorrectly applied design guidelines and Portland zoning regulations. Sir, I'm sorry to interrupt. You have to say your name for the record. Sorry about that. Sorry. George Galster. Thanks, George. Thanks. Thanks.
 First of all, it approved building modifications that degrade design review requirements. It set a dangerous precedent for the long-term development of the River District and accepted the developer's miscalculation of site area for the purposes of determining allowable building mass. As Mr. Nielsen pointed out, these are the applicable guidelines that the Design Commission must take into consideration. If you look at these guidelines and all these documents, they are quite consistent,
 in their desire to enhance Portland's personality. And they give specific ways in which our building is supposed to enhance our personality by first emphasizing Portland themes, integrating the river into the community, supporting parks and public spaces, enhancing and protecting views, and reinforcing special districts. But let's not take these in generality. Let's see specifically what the guidelines say with regard to each of these five points.
 Emphasizing Portland themes, quote, there are many themes unique to Portland's culture and geography that promote the city's identity and image. Examples of elements that identify Portland include roses and bridges. Integrating the river into the community, the Willamette River is the center city's most significant geographic feature. The bridges that cross the river reinforce the river's role as the binding element of the center city. Supporting parks and public spaces,
 The Tanner Creek Parks, that is Jameson Square, Tanner Springs Park, and Fields Park, function as both a neighborhood park system and as one of Portland's primary promenades, extending the North Park blocks northward to the Willamette River. Thus, we aim to strengthen and enhance the Tanner Creek Parks.
 Enhancing and protecting views. Quote, taking advantage of surrounding view opportunities increases the desirability of living, visiting, and working in the center city. Thus, we aim to size and place new buildings to protect existing views. Reinforcing special districts. Design should acknowledge that the context of its surroundings with an approach that responds to the character and identity of three blocks in every direction. Quote,
 Let's keep these in mind as we look at the decisions the Design Commission made. First of all, they approved building modifications that degrade these design review requirements. The zoning code clearly allows only modifications that both will better meet the applicable design standards and be consistent with the purposes of the standards in question. The purposes of the standards in question are clearly spelled out in the zoning code.
 Some of these were nicely reviewed by Mr. Nielsen. Quote, increase access to sunlight along the greenway. Facilitate visual and physical access to and along the riverfront. Create expanded opportunities for views of the river as viewed from locations west of the riverfront. And
 And last but hardly least, ensure that bonus height granted to sites adjacent to the Fremont Bridge do not significantly affect views of or diminish the aesthetic qualities of the bridge or its iconic stature in the Portland skyline. The Design Commission essentially approved modifications that allow the Fremont apartments to be taller and fatter than are permitted by code. Does this supersized building better meet?
 and be more consistent with the purposes of the design standard, I think the answer is obvious. Point two, the Design Commission set dangerous precedents for the long-term development of the River District. Future developers will expect that they, too, will be allowed to build as massively as the Fremont Apartments. Consider what this will mean for our future. It will convert this current picture to this picture, if we permit the Fremont Apartments as currently proposed.
 The developer immediately of the south will be able to build that. The developer of Centennial Mills will be able to build that. And I ask again, would this enhance Portland's personality? Would this emphasize Portland themes? No, it minimizes the bridge and the river.
 Would this integrate the river into the community? No, it walls off the river from the community. Would this support public parks and public spaces? No, it degrades the value of the Fields Park. It degrades the value of our greenway. Does it enhance and protect views? Here, notice the doublespeak the developer is trying to get you to believe. We enhance the view by only obscuring half of the bridge instead of all of it.
 And last, does this reinforce special districts? No. Quite the contrary. This development will set in motion a long-term development pattern that will be the poison pill for the pearl.
 Third, the design commission accepted the developer's miscalculation of the site area for purposes of determining allowable building mass. Again, the zoning code is clear. All measurements involving development standards are based on property lines and area of the site after dedication of public rights of way. The developer did not do this. And as a result, they exaggerated their buildable site by 70%.
 We wouldn't be having this discussion if the basics of planning were followed correctly in this case. To conclude, the case of the Fremont Apartments represents a crucial decision point for Portland. Will we hold fast to our duly adopted plans for a humane, livable, distinctive city? Or will we build at all costs, including violating our own zoning codes? The Design Commission has opted for the former. The latter, excuse me, and we hope that you will opt for the former. Thank you.
 because this is simply the wrong building for a special site. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions before we move on to the next? I just have one question, Mayor. Commissioner Fish? Mr. Kleinman, I think at the beginning of your presentation you mentioned in passing that this building would not be subject to our affordable housing requirements under inclusionary housing. I'm glad you mentioned that because over 15,000 units were filed ahead of the deadline.
 with all due respect to some of the critics of this policy, we're not going to really know whether inclusionary housing has had any potential positive or negative impact until the 15,000 to 20,000 units in the pipeline are built that aren't subject to inclusionary housing. And it seemed to be...
 There were highly motivated developers that beat the deadline, and so we've got three years of product in the pipeline. And it seems like it's going to make it extremely difficult to gauge the effectiveness of inclusionary housing with all this development that's not covered. But let's just take inclusionary housing as a concept. Had this building been subject to that requirement, and so if there were more affordable units in this building, would that change your analysis at all in terms of public benefit?
 I'm not sure it would change my analysis very much, but I think it might change the council's analysis a little bit, because there would be a further argument of additional public benefit for this humongous massing and overshadowing of the Greenway, which is quite unparalleled.
 So, again, as an advocate for my client, I have to say it might not affect my arguments, but it might affect the council's perspective. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. Very good. I had a question, Mayor. Commissioner Saltzman. I was intrigued by the statement, the developer has exaggerated the site area by 70%. Could somebody elaborate what they mean by exaggerated? Okay.
 I can, Commissioner Salzman. This is Jeff Kleinman again. We set this out to some extent in the appeal narrative that we filed, and it's set out in a bit more detail in the proposed findings sustaining the appeal that we've circulated. But it's also something that's going to be the subject of some detailed testimony going forward. There's a very organized presentation coming up.
 But in a nutshell, on that point, there are several –
 portions of the site that have been included in the square footage for development purposes which do not belong in the calculation and they're very significant. One is that the applicant measures the site down into the Willamette, down to the ordinary low water line when in fact by state law which is set out in the findings we wrote, the
 and the people of Oregon own up to the ordinary high water line. And we're not sure what that distance is that's been included, but it's a lot and it's got to go. This application isn't sustainable as it is. And then the other component of that, to answer briefly, is for all practical purposes, the Greenway area itself, the Greenway Trail and Path,
 and the 60-foot strip on the north that's a public walkway.
 to the river are essentially dedicated, whether as public or private, rights of way. And as such, by city code, and we cite the code in what we've submitted, they are not to be included in the developable area for the purpose of calculating FAR. So you wind up with a much, much lower permissible FAR. By my calculation, for what it's worth,
 At most, 40,000 square feet is the developable area and not something closer to 80,000 square feet as characterized in the application. So I hope that answers. Thank you. Yes. Very good. Thank you. Thanks again, Mayor. Thank you.
 Next up, we have the principal opponent. You get 15 minutes, but the appellant went two minutes and four seconds over. So if you want, you have 17 minutes and four seconds. I'm sorry. I'm out of order. Sorry. Thank you, supporters of the appeal. Carla, when you have a suspicion, you're usually right. So shout it out. Yes. How many do we have? Thirty-six. Okay.
 Okay, so here's my usual speech. Quantity is not as important as quality. And if people feel like you are hearing other people already make your comments, absolutely feel free to either just, you know, thumbs up or if you want to come up and stand behind somebody or point somebody from your group, if you will, and you may go up and stand behind them and be recognized.
 Or alternatively, just come to the mic and say everything that I have wanted to say has been said in my opinion is X, so that you have registered your opinion for the record. But you do not necessarily need to feel that you need to repeat the same arguments 36 times if that is the case. First three, please, Carla. Are Stan Pinkin, John Wilkinson, and Kurt Sorensen?
 And they'll be followed by Alan Potts, Christina Del Rosario, and Mark Windham. And again, just name for the record, please. We don't need people's addresses. Stanley, do you want to kick us off, please? Yes, I will. Good afternoon. I'm Stan Pankin, president of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association. My testimony is going to be more at a 30,000-foot level rather than getting down into the nitty-gritty.
 You have just heard compelling expert testimony on why the proposed Fremont Apartments is the wrong project in the wrong place. But this appeal, approved by a significant majority of our board, is about far more than a building. It's about who we are, where we're going, our vision, and what we are leaving to our children, grandchildren, and generations beyond. Thank you.
 Portland has been a model for visionary thinking, smart urban growth, and innovative planning. Having worked with the Planning Bureau as a member of the Portland Plan and Comprehensive Plan Community Involvement Committee for seven years, I've seen firsthand the passion and dedication of our planners in developing policies that work for the betterment of our city for everyone.
 It's not just about buildings. It's about considering every aspect of our daily lives, from where we live, where we work, where we play, where we walk, where we bike, where we drive, how we all interact as a community, and how that works in harmony. It's about livability, sense of place, and connection to our rivers and mountains that are all ingredients that make us such an amazing city.
 The Fremont Apartments as currently designed is a contradiction of those values, our aspirations, and established policies that make people want to be here in the first place. The Pearl District does not oppose development. The neighborhood has been a mecca for smart development guided by visionary planning that takes into account all the values just mentioned. We are a vibrant and diverse community because of that.
 But after hearing our community's concern in a public process, we do oppose misplaced development that will harm and detract from the character, spirit, and soul of this unique neighborhood, not to mention the river that belongs to all of Portland. As you heard, the Design Commission's approval of this project was a close 3-1 vote with a minority opinion representing much of what we are speaking of today.
 That opinion was by the Commission's Chair, Julie Livingston, who I believe is here today. As there does not appear to be a process in this current appeal format whereby a minority opinion is heard, in the spirit of City Council's recent resolution that all voices be heard, I am asking that Julie be invited to express her opinion for your consideration. We are in the throes of enormous growth.
 where rampant development has outpaced our ability to control it. Stan, I'm going to need you to rock. I'm there. While we await approval of Central City 2035, please do not allow this massive, misguided project to go forward as a contradiction to all that we value and cherish. Thank you. Thank you, Stan. And I don't like to be the microphone, please. So please, when you see 30 seconds, that's when the yellow light comes on, please stop when you hit the red. Thanks.
 Good afternoon. Thanks. Thanks, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mayor. And greetings from the tourist section across the lobby over there. I won't try to go into the detailed technical aspects of these things. That's been well covered already. But my comments to you are the community reasons for denying this project.
 It really involves what we want Portland to be and going forward. The waterfront of the Willamette has been and is very important, has been in the entire history of the city for various reasons that have changed over time. It's still very important to the city and the people that live here now. Parks. Portland has a national and international reputation with regard to city parks and that needs to be reinforced, not torn down.
 and the Fremont Bridge. Of course it was put in place at great community input and great expense. It's now an icon. It's shown in most pictures that relate to the city, promotional materials, and the like, as you well know. Just a note on the Fields Park. You probably know this already. I hope that you do, but it's quickly become a very heavily used park. People walk there daily from
 several blocks away in all three directions to get to the park. The dog leash off area has a lot to do with that. And just as I left the community a few minutes ago, or a couple hours ago now, I counted 23 people in the park on a snow day, 12 dogs and the people that take care of them.
 And often we look on the park, we'll see as many as 20 dogs or more in there at one time. It's quite a thing and that's going to get only more overused and undersized as regard all these additional units come on stream. There must be a thousand within walking distance coming up that are yet unoccupied.
 Seems to me that we've got here what is a greedy San Francisco landowner who's trying by all means and certain amount of pulling the wool to maximize the amount of living units that can be shoehorned into that tight space. And I would just ask the landowner and developers,
 If this were San Francisco, the hometown of the owner, and you were proposing this building to be between the Marina Park and the Golden Gate Bridge, how do you think it might be dealt with? Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Kurt Sorensen. I'm a resident of the Pearl District.
 We bought here after researching the various land use plans for this district. The proposed Fremont apartments will destroy that good planning framework. I oppose the proposal for the reasons set forth in detail in my filed testimony. The consistent theme of the plans since the central plan of 1987 require that building height and bulk be scaled down from the west as the river is approached.
 In the North Pearl waterfront, that means stepping down height from the west part of the Pearl District. The primary zoning tool used to accomplish this is a FAR of 2 to 1, as opposed to the 4 to 1 or 5 to 1 ratios applied in the Pearl District west of NATO.
 This is augmented by other provisions such as height restrictions, facade restrictions, open space and view corridor restrictions, code provisions to impose a Portland block pattern for lot size, and the Greenway overlay. The block pattern sections are important along the river because there are no streets to create the normal grid pattern.
 The problem with relying principally on FAR is that the base must be defined so that the base floor area can be determined. If it is not, then FAR loses its regulatory and predictive value. See the graphs at page 4 of my testimony. The ordinary application of FAR in the central city is to a standard block of 40,000 square feet. The entire area of the block is thus buildable.
 That works well, but as discussed at pages 2 and 3, the scheme collapses on unusual lots such as those along the river. The code defines far in the traditional way. It is ambiguous in defining site. Reliance on unpublished custom or habit fails if there are no constraints.
 The unintended consequence is a building that is at odds with the zoning and plans. Compare Fremont to Waterfront Pearl, where size was limited by sound zoning constraints. My written testimony illustrates the cumulative effect of an exaggerated base floor area when bonuses are applied. If the goals of the plan and the code are to be met, the building restrictions must be treated the same as the rights-of-way in the downtown blocks.
 Waterfront Pro conforms to the block grid pattern. Fremont Apartments does not. Concluding, the approach used for Fremont Apartments will completely subvert all existing plans. The use of fire is restrictive and predictive will be lost.
 Allowing this building would be like cramming a whale into a bathtub and would provide a negative precedent for the remaining parcels along the river. It would predict a high hard wall against the river separating the river from the rest of the community. In the downtown pearl, the proposed building would fit. On a standard block, it would have a perfectly acceptable far of 7.68 to 1. That is not true here. Thank you, sir. Thank you, all three of you. Next three, please.
 Next three are Alan Potts, Christina De La Rosario, and Mark, I believe it's Linden for the last name? Lindell. Lindell, thank you. And they'll be followed by Michael Roberts, Bruce Kaplan, and Michael Coates. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Thank you.
 uh my name is alan potts i'm a pearl district resident and i live at 949 northwest overton street i agree with the opinion of the chair of the design commissioner in her dissent when she concluded that the fremont apartment proposal negatively impacts the willamette greenway and its use by all portlanders and visitors who enjoy the waterfront in order to expand the size of the fremont apartments the developer sought to
 sought a modification that would allow it to exceed the maximum 200-foot depth set out in the code. This modification means that a five-story building will directly abut the 25-foot Willamette Greenway. And while the Greenway is the bare minimum of 25 feet path along that Greenway, that Greenway is much smaller sometimes and as narrow as 13 feet.
 On the south waterfront, planners had the foresight to preserve the Greenway Parkway setting for hundreds of feet from tall construction so those enjoying the waterfront would not be overwhelmed by looming buildings. We have the direct opposite with the Fremont Apartments proposal. It will literally cast a shadow over the walkway during the summer hours.
 I understand that the size of this parcel cannot support a dedication of 100 feet or more of the widths devoted to the Willamette Greenway. That is why every foot given over to development is so important. The developer received a modification allowing it to add 30.9 feet of depth to the building. That is 30.9 feet that would have been devoted to making the Willamette Greenway a more viable public space.
 This modification does nothing to enhance the waterfront. In fact, it does the opposite. The actual 13-foot width of the path in some places will make it dangerous for cyclists and pedestrians walking in tandem to pass one another without risk of a collision.
 In addition, the new Central City Code will require a 50-foot setback, meaning that the Fremont apartment project will extend 25 feet further towards the Willamette River than all the new construction in that segment of the NATO Parkway, including Centennial Mills. Thus, it will continue to be a bottleneck and stick out like a sore thumb. The Fremont apartment proposal should be rejected. I thank you for your attention. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Christina Del Rosario. I'm a retired nurse. We moved to Portland two and a half years ago after deciding to retire. The parks, trees, access to transportation, walkability, bike lanes, and a sense of community. Portland won our hearts. It has everything to offer to every age group from infants to seniors.
 And I'm sure this did not happen without the mindful planning with the builders, investors, and the citizens of the community. And I'm here today to continue to support that legacy. The city is changing at a very fast pace. And as a foot patrol volunteer, I have seen some ugly consequences. But I'm not here to talk about it right now.
 I'm here today to make sure we continue to work together with the builders, investors, and the citizens of this community to make sure we do not compromise the identity which makes Portland the model for other cities.
 Let's keep its uniqueness, its beauty, the trees, the parks, access to transportation, walkability, bike lanes, and the trails along the Willamette River so we can continue to enjoy the future generation of the beauty and uniqueness of our city we call home.
 Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Mark Lindau. I have been a physician. I was first in 1976. During this period of time, I felt that this was a very quinky type of a little town.
 For example, with the founding fathers, there were two different grids. One was going north, direct north. The other was going in the direction of the star, the north star. It's just different. Now, during the period of time that these fathers went, they visited...
 During that period of time, they found that there was an amazing park that was going through the cities. As a result, we now have a parking that went from the PSU all the way into Northwest. But unfortunately, one of the founders had said,
 died and he did not have a will. Because of that now, we have four blocks of buildings that is interrupted by the complete park. When I arrived here, I was amazed by the absolute amazement of the tunnel that went into 26th and into downtown. The
 The mountain hood went framing for that absolute place. In 1992, the coin building was there. Now we get to see the beautiful coin mount instead of the mountain. Gentlemen, that's all I have to say. You've got a clunker.
 Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please. Are Michael Roberts, Bruce Kaplan, and Michael R. Coats, and they'll be followed by Glenn Traeger, Michael Fole, and Larry Mazur. Good afternoon. Hi, how are you doing? Good. You want to go first? Sure. Thanks. My name is Bruce Kaplan. I've been a resident in the Pearl District for the last 10 years. Portland is a vibrant community in a spectacular location.
 While we've been blessed with that geography, our livability has been enhanced by the visionary leadership of our city government. When we brag about Portland to others, we often talk about the city having the courage to choose Waterfront Park over Harbor Drive.
 The foresight to protect Forest Park from residential development and the smarts to convert old warehouses into the Pearl District, a model for cities around the world. We've reached another one of those crossroads. Does the city serve the public better by creating yet another high-rise luxury apartment, or do we decide it's better to prevent the walling off of our waterfronts?
 In 2009, the Project for Public Spaces created a blueprint for cities that envision their waterfronts as destinations to keep people coming back. The project calls its recommendations rules of thumb drawn from 32 years of experience working to improve urban waterfronts around the world.
 The project goes on to 13 recommendations. I'll mention a few. The first is make public goals the primary objective. When the city considers its waterfront to be a public asset, it's easier to put public goals ahead of financial expediency. Another rule, optimize public access. The accessibility of the waterfront is crucial.
 Waterfronts with continuous access are much more desirable than ones where public space is interrupted. Massive buildings that almost touch the water are not going to leave much space for folks to enjoy the beauty of the Willamette and its river traffic.
 Another rule worth mentioning, design and program buildings to engage the public space. The ideal combination is to have both commercial and public uses as opposed to high-rise buildings that physically and psychologically cut off the waterfront from the surrounding neighborhoods. I cite these examples, but I'm sure you're very aware of these. Let's look to the future a little bit.
 You're taking your family or friends to Fields Park to enjoy the sun, watch children run across the grass, or get a close look at the waterfront. Would you rather say to your family and friends, see how the beautiful arch of the bridge appears over the water? I help protect those laws.
 Or would you rather say, see those apartment buildings over there? You used to be able to see the arch of the bridge and the waterfront. But I voted to allow these buildings to be constructed. I hope I know what your answer will be. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Oh, hello. My name is Michael Roberts. I live in the Pearl at the Sitka. I live in...
 I am the manager of the Pearl Foot Patrol. In October 2017, I was elected to serve on the Pearl District Neighborhood Association Board. My comments today are as an individual,
 I'm not representing the board. My testimony will focus on an email exchange that you have in front of you. It was an exchange between TVA architects and the entire PD&A board. It occurred December 27, the day of the PD&A board
 was voting on whether to appeal and file the appeal. TVA seems to be frustrated with the democratic checks and balance processes of PD&A committees and the board.
 The emails turned from frustration to, in my mind, intimidation with comments like, one, the type of appeal, this type of appeal will serve to reduce your ability as a neighborhood to have a voice in upcoming development in the PRL.
 Two, the result, I believe, of appealing a project like this will be that the future projects will skip the PD&A altogether, which will greatly lessen your voice on development in your own neighborhood. Three, neither of these conditions not being met has merits as an appealable item, so your appeal will only serve to delay the project by a couple of months.
 Four, it is likely to cost members of the design team, TVA's design team, their jobs. And five, it will also come at the expense of the goodwill between your group and the development community in general. This is not neighborly nor, in my opinion, an acceptable way to talk to representatives of a community. I have heard people say,
 that they are afraid of the development community in Portland, and there is nothing citizens can do to stand up for them. I have a different opinion than that of the development community. Don't I have a right to express it? Thank you very much. Thank you. Hi, how are you doing? My name is Michael Coates. I'm a citizen. I had a bunch of great points to talk about, but everybody else has brought them up and said them better than I ever could.
 Except I haven't heard one very important thing. This project is a Trojan horse. And once it gets in our gate, it's over. Developers are buzzing around seeing if this will be approved or not because that big, ugly wall that was shown so graphically well on this slideshow, it'll happen. And, of course, as politicians, you know how unpopular it is to build walls these days, right? And I hope that you understand.
 What's important here is not the view of a bridge. That's not what it's about. It's not even about this building.
 It's about the riverfront future, as has been stated, of the City of Portland for its citizens and its visitors. And it's the access. If that gets blocked, we're in real trouble. So this vote is much, much bigger. Your vote is going to have a big, big impact on the future for all of us. And all I ask is that you think very carefully, please. Thank you. Thank you. And I just want to remind everybody, great points, but we are serving in the capacity of a hearing.
 And so what we are actually doing here is looking narrowly at the appeal and the appeal process and the decisions that were made by the Design Review Commission. I just want to be very, very clear that in our role as a hearings body today, we are very prescribed in terms of what we are looking at. That's not to invalidate your point, but I just want people to be very clear about what it is we are doing here. I don't know if legal counsel wants to comment on that.
 Essentially, counsel is required to look at the criteria for the review
 and base their decision based on those criteria. And so even if they find, I'm not saying this particular proposal, but on a proposal that maybe they don't personally like very much, but they believe that it meets the criteria, they're obliged to approve it if it meets the criteria. So, again, not saying anything about this particular application. Yeah, I just wanted people to be very clear about what role we are playing here today as a city council. Since I left a minute and 59 seconds, I may have a couple more. Sure. It's your time. It is.
 Yes, it's about the specifics, but don't forget the specifics are there to support an overall livability and philosophy of what we're doing here in the city of Portland and in the Pearl. So it all goes together, in my opinion. But that's just my viewpoint. Thank you. Good point. Thank you all. Next three, please. Next three are Glenn Traeger, Michael Fold, and Larry Mazur. Thank you.
 And they'll be followed by Christine Ash, Demarismuch, and Melanie Yeo. Good afternoon, sir. Why don't you start us off? Good afternoon. My name is Glenn Traeger, and I'm a board member of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association and a member of its Planning and Transportation Committee.
 I became actively involved in a Fremont apartment at the end of last year when I found this project would encroach upon the Willamette River Greenway by building a high-rise apartment building within a few feet of the Greenway path. I am an active user of the Greenway and could not believe the design commission would give away a 175-foot by 30-foot strip of riverfront property to a developer.
 The encroachment of the Greenway buffer is a result of modifications requested by the Fremont Apartments and should be denied. The Greenway and its adjacent buffer should be reserved for the enjoyment of the public as mandated in the Central City Plan. I asked the City Council to do two simple things. Just follow the Central City Plan. The Pearl did not become one of the best neighborhoods in the country by chance.
 It took hundreds of hours of dedicated effort from Portland residents, city officials, and land developers to establish guidelines for its development. The Pearl Plan, the River District Plan, the North Pearl Plan, and the Central City Plan were all created out of this effort.
 It is important that the Fremont Apartments follow existing land use plans since it will be an important element in the large stage of future development along the Willamette River.
 Secondly, please listen to the citizens in this room, to the citizens at our town hall, and to the hundreds of citizens who signed our petition at the Fields Park on a cold winter weekend and approved the Pearl District Neighborhood Association appeal of their Fremont apartments. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Larry Mazur.
 Modification number five gives the developer an extra 30.9 feet of building room that directly encroaches on the Greenway. I sat through numerous design commission hearings and had numerous discussions with staff. I can tell you that those folks are dedicated and well-meaning, but they are also overwhelmed with the construction boom in this city. As a result, Parks and Recreation only got involved in this process a few days before the final vote.
 I know this for a fact because I testified before the Commission in November and pointed out that the width of the Greenway Walk was far less than the standard set out by Parks and Rec. Staff for the Commission did contact staff for Parks and Rec after my testimony. Parks and Recreation finally got a chance to weigh in via a letter dated December 15, 2017, and I've attached that for you to see.
 While the letter addresses the width of the revised walkway, it is silent on the 30.9 feet giveaway to the developer, because that ship had already sailed. This was an egregious mistake. While Parks and Recreation did approve the expanded walkway, it requested that the developer extend out the handrail another few feet towards the river. That shows you how desperate Parks and Rec was to gather as many extra feet as they could.
 So in summary, the Design Commission was approving a 30.9 foot encroachment on one side of the Greenway when Parks and Recreation was begging for an extra two feet on the other side of the Greenway. And that's solely because they weren't involved in the front end. For whatever reason, staff didn't coordinate and Parks and Rec had no involvement in this process until literally a few weeks before the vote.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Michael Gould, resident of Pearl. Thank you very much for this time. Most of my topics have already been covered. I would like to speak to this one though as well, is that if you look north of the Fremont Bridge, you see the nice wide expanse ways of walk. If you go down in front of a waterfront, excuse me, a waterfront in Pearl, you see the same thing. The infringement and the pinch that's going to happen there is just, there's no continuity to it whatsoever. So to me it makes no sense.
 The other one that has been brought up, and it also helps to going towards mass of this building, is this locker room for bicyclists. It certainly makes sense in a commercial building. I would just definitely agree with that where people may bike to work, take a shower, and so forth. This is a residential building, so you're expecting them to put the bike in, come back downstairs, take a shower, and go back up to be able to have additional mass. It's a loophole that's definitely been exploited that I definitely think is –
 But it's not even rational. Most all my other points have been made, but I will say this, is that I'm fortunate to work with a number of manufacturers that come into this industry
 our beautiful town from all over the world. And the great thing is whenever they see the Field Park and they look around and they see the beautiful bridge and they see our river and everything else, it takes their breath away. And I look at this city, and I'm proud to be a resident of this city, and I just look at this and say, like everybody said, this building is just wrong place, wrong place. So I hope and ask that you just reject this design. Thank you. Thanks, all three. Next three, please. Our Christine Nash.
 So I can't read the first name. Demersimich, I believe is the last name, and Melanie Yeo. And they'll be followed by David Mitchell, John Wurtsler, and Roger Leachman. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Kristi Nash. I live in the Pearl, and I have no financial impact from this project. But I did want to speak to a little bit of a citizen's experience living in the Pearl.
 I grew up in the country and did not have paved roads, and I'm just now learning to ride a bike at age 48. And how I did it was in Fields Park. I thank you for that. I rode round and round until at least I'm comfortable going on the waterfront loop, what we have, at least on the east side. I always start and end at Fields Park.
 I get why this park is ranked number three for our city, behind Washington Park, and Tom McCall is our first, the dog park, the playground. I even watched the eclipse with a thousand of my neighbors, all with that majestic bridge as the backdrop. I've learned that this bridge that cost us $82 million is a historically significant bridge with the second largest expanse in the world. And it's in the Library of Congress. They list it as the epitome of high tech.
 I think our tourism community should be celebrating and promoting this quote. The view from the Fields Park is iconic. As it was mentioned, if San Francisco maintained their view corridors, we did not. My route goes north to the waterfront where I ride on the new boardwalk with its large art sculpture, people fishing, reading books, pushing strollers. Passing all the new development that does have a successful stair-step-down plan
 and a path that is open and I can ride freely without crashing into people. As I mentioned, I'm a new bike rider. Let's not destroy this forever without consideration of what the voter and our communities want and what is right for the reputation of our city. Before you vote, I implore you to please go spend an hour in that park and look up at that bridge. Consider your children's children might someday visit it, and you might be able to say you saved that view. While remembering my words and all of our words today, thank you.
 In closing, it's not too late. My Santa Claus wish would be that we could reconsider and explore preserving that view corridor from the Fields Park to the bridge. But I know the reality is not that. At a minimum, please do not approve the Fremont Apartments allowances for the added height, mass, and altering the waterfront trail plan. The community is counting on your leadership. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lorraine Demersman, and I own a condo in the Pearl District.
 Most of what I intended to say has already been said, but I would like to make one short statement. I agree with the opinion of the chair of the design commission in her conclusion that the Fremont Apartments proposed modifications negatively impact the Willamette Greenway and width. Thousands of Portlanders enjoy walking and biking the Pearl Waterfront, including myself. I live blocks from the proposed site.
 I ask that our appeal be considered and the impact of the additional traffic and parking also be considered. It has come to my attention that there are fewer parking spaces than there are units in this proposed project, and I'm alarmed at that.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Melanie Yu, and I'm a resident of Goose Hollow. And I'd like to present a slightly different perspective today. Let's pretend for a moment and picture a better world where there are laws against developing buildings that would block symbolic structures like the breathtaking Fremont Bridge. Okay.
 and it would, and it were the developers who would have to be appealing here today to try and convince the council and mayor in a public setting that a monster building that would forever obliterate the perfect view of the bridge from Fields Park was necessary. What arguments could they possibly present that would make any sense to allow that?
 Instead, well, okay, first of all, to be clear, I am not against tall luxury buildings per se, just against the location of this one in particular. Instead, the opposite is happening. The reality today for Portland is that beautiful public views are under constant threat by developers looking to make a quick profit at the expense of people who live and work here.
 The issue here is the same one we faced with working to protect Mount Hood and Vista Bridge views. We are talking about preserving iconic views and public space in Portland overall. And like the concerns many expressed at that time, the issues are the same. We should give precedence to preserving a public benefit rather than obliterating it forever for the economic benefit of a few.
 Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please. Are David Mitchell, John Wurzler, and Roger Leachman, and they'll be followed by Judy Duncan, John Gillette, and Brooks Hickerson. Good afternoon, sir. Why don't you start us off? Good afternoon. Name is Dave Mitchell. I'm a resident of the Pearl District. I serve on the board of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, and I chair PDNA's Livability and Safety Committee.
 As all of you probably well know, having been to the Bay Area, one of the extraordinary assets of San Francisco is its Embarcadero, a three-mile-long stretch of waterfront with virtually unobstructed views of San Francisco Bay other than old warehouse piers that are in the process of being renovated one by one. Chicago, Illinois has many miles of shoreline on Lake Michigan that are protected against any further high-rise development on the east side of Lakeshore Drive.
 My childhood hometown of Portland, Maine has taken major steps over many decades to refurbish and protect its historic port and waterfront from any high-rise buildings that might obstruct views of Casco Bay and its 365 islands. Countless cities across the country have come to realize the symbolic importance of their local rivers as vital resources that serve as a magnet for residents and visitors. Thank you.
 Spokane, San Antonio, Pittsburgh, Minneapolis, Memphis, Cincinnati, just to name a few. In San Diego, where my wife and I lived many years before moving to Portland nine years ago, has vowed never, ever to repeat its egregious mistake of building a wall of three high-rise hotels and a huge convention center right on the edge of San Diego Bay in the 1980s.
 obliterating views of the bay and Coronado Island unless you happen to be visiting one of the hotels or the convention center itself. Henceforth any future development on Harbor Drive and San Diego Bay must be set back a significant distance across Harbor Drive from the bayfront to allow all to enjoy the benefits associated with a view of the bay.
 These examples are just a tiny sampling of American cities, most of which were major industrial centers that formerly treated their rivers or harbors as virtual sewers and as their backyard to be hidden from view. These cities have all come to realize that their rivers and bayfronts are critical assets to be preserved at all costs for all to view and enjoy. Thank you.
 From where I sit, Portland has shown great vision in recent decades in recognizing the Willamette River as our version of San Francisco Bay or the Sacramento River. Efforts to beautify the riverfront south of Burnside and extending to the south waterfront are highly commendable and are excellent examples of what should be done with as much of our riverfront as possible.
 But allowing the Fremont apartments to be built as presently designed would, in my view, be a terrific blunder for a city that prides itself on enlightened urban planning. Frankly, I can't imagine how any elected or appointed public official who claims to grasp the importance of our river as a symbolic element in our city's DNA could possibly allow this giant structure to go forward as currently configured.
 In this particular location, it's way too massive, it's way too tall, and it's way too close to the river. Thanks very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is John Wurzler. I'm a Pearl District resident. I support the Pearl District Neighborhood Association's appeal of the proposed design of the Fremont Place apartment high-rise. I'm against this project for the following reasons.
 First, the proposed development will obstruct the view of the Fremont Bridge and Fields Park, as has already been mentioned. This bridge was designed to be artistic as well as functional. It has become an iconic structure, symbolic of Portland, a city that's divided by the Willamette River but united by its bridges. Obstructing the view by allowing a high-rise construction along the river creates a physical and visual barrier.
 to the Willamette and isolates neighborhoods from this natural resource that is uniquely our own. Second, the developer has discounted the importance of the public greenway in order to maximize the size of the proposed building.
 Construction along the Willamette River should not be allowed to constrict the public right-of-way along the river like the proposed Fremont Place Apartments project does. Maintaining a public walkway of 18 to 25 feet along the river should be the starting point for any proposal, not an afterthought.
 Third, a proposed building has been granted excessive height and square footage bonuses based on amenities that are ill-conceived and disingenuous. The result is a building that is...
 Too massive and too tall for the lot size. It includes a restaurant with limited parking, a bike locker and shower facilities that are not likely to be used in a residential building, a walkway that pinches pedestrian and bicycle traffic to less than 13 feet, and artwork that is disguised as park benches.
 And fourth, the proposed building potentially sets an unfortunate design precedent for other development along the Willamette River.
 Future development along the river, including Centennial Mills, Albor Mills parking lot, and other sites both north and south of the Fremont Bridge, will take their design cue from what is decided about this proposed project. Such a design precedent will create a canyon-like effect along Nato Parkway and Front Avenue and limit access to the river and Greenway.
 No doubt you've heard from many Portland residents objecting to the proposed project because it obstructs the ascetic and iconic view of the Fremont Bridge.
 In closing, I'd like to suggest that the real issue to be addressed is not the view of the Fremont Bridge, but the vision for development along the Willamette River. It's not the view. It's the vision. Please consider your decision on this appeal and keep it open to all of those in connecting our neighborhoods. Could I ask you a follow-up question because you raised some good issues here? So the vision is really encompassed in the base zoning.
 Correct. And the bonus system pre-exists. It is just factually exists. And so the question isn't for us today should the bonus system exist, although that is something we could certainly take up at a later date. You mentioned on one of the bonus issues, and I heard somebody else say the same thing, and I was confused when I heard it once, but now that it's been said twice, I need to dig in a little deeper.
 There's a contention that the bike storage will not be used in a residential building. Could you explain why you believe that to be the case? So if each of the units has, in fact, been required to have bike storage within their units,
 Who's going to use the bike locker? Who's going to use the downstairs shower facilities? It's a, as I think was pointed out, is a loophole that has been exploited by the developer that is typically found in the commercial buildings in the city. In a residential building, it doesn't make as much sense. Got it. Okay, thank you for clarifying that. I appreciate that. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon.
 My name is Roger Leachman. I'm a resident on Southwest Vista, and I serve on the board of the Goose Hollow Foothills League. I'm here to read a statement by our president, Michael Mahaffey, who could not be present. I'll preface it by saying I believe most all of us in Goose Hollow support our colleagues and neighbors in the Pearl, because for all of us, it's about neighborhoods. With apologies to Robert Frost, good neighborhoods make good cities.
 As others have argued more cogently than I could, this project does not advance that. It's ironic that they name this thing after the view it destroys. And now I'll read a statement by Michael.
 Although I am president of Goose Hollow, I write this as an individual and a professional in urban development. I'd like to note that it is unfortunate that the debate around this and other projects has been framed as being about loss of views from private homes, when what is much more important is the loss of iconic views from the public realm and the degrading of our urban commons.
 More deeply, I think the debate is ultimately about what kind of city we want to become. Should we be a city that surrenders its heritage in an ill-considered rush to address its short-term problems with a simplistic build-baby-build solution? Are we disturbed by the growing uglification of our city?
 Will we accept the premise, in spite of evidence, that we can't build more housing and preserve the very qualities that make our city so attractive in the first place? Will we work more diligently to balance developer profits with the wider long-term interest of the city now and into the future?
 Will we work to ensure that new construction is easier to build, is more affordable, does not destroy existing affordable stock, does not destroy iconic views or otherwise degrade the public realm, and is as beautiful as the city around it? I think that is the ultimate question. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thanks, all three of you. Thank you. Next three, please. Our John Gillette.
 Brooks Hickerson, and we'll go with Sally Mize. And they'll be followed by Carol Yarrow, Keith Chellam, and Lawrence W. Erickson. Good afternoon, sir. Would you like to start? Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. I'm Dr. John Gillette, a retired geriatric psychiatrist and a several-year resident of the Pearl District. I'm very interested in the quality of life and opposed to this building project.
 I previously sent you a picture of a plaque that I found while riding my bicycle on the Selwood Bridge that said, City of Bridges, and then listed all of our bridges and talked specifically about the unique aspects of the Fremont Bridge. And as you've heard some people, due to its public design being the bridge of the people.
 And I'm hearing all the wonderful presentations today. I'm going to limit my comments quite significantly. I did get involved in approaching people at the fields and taking, getting signatures for the protest and this particular appeal.
 And 98% of the people I talked to were very interested, signed up, etc. And did indeed think that the particular view of the Fremont Bridge and the potential obstruction would be devastating.
 Likewise, as a bicycle rider, I ride on the greenways, and the proposed restrictions and the shadows and stuff with this project would involve, I think, would be very important.
 very detrimental and should be avoided. Obviously any kind of building onto Greenway space will mean that it will never be recovered and available as initially planned.
 As a bicycle rider living in a condominium, the fact that they've utilized some of the space to increase the height and building area is a bit disturbing. I occasionally have to take my bike to my – rather than storage in the parking garage, taking it into the apartment. And I can imagine that people –
 having to use the storage in their apartments would be carrying their bicycles up in the elevators and then scratching doors and walls getting them into the units. Lastly, I think there's concern around, well I don't know how much of a concern, but there's I guess to be a restaurant in that area which may be nice but it seems like
 about location may be not the most workable thing and perhaps just there to change the nature of the building to allow for for other modifications I will close with saying that I am concerned about the slippery slope effect and that other things may be Forthcoming that would be further detrimental. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Good afternoon. I
 My name is Brooks Hickerson, and I live close to the Fields Park. I'm there every day. I'm also a member of the PDNA, and I'm also a member of the Friends of Pearl Walking Patrol. I paint outdoors in Portland. Every day, I go outside and paint the iconic views of this beautiful city. This is one of the reasons I moved to Portland. Okay.
 And I'm a member of several painting organizations. In the eight years I've lived here, I've painted hundreds and hundreds of views and dozens of views of the bridge as well as Centennial Mills. And I oppose the Fremont apartment construction as it's currently proposed. The height proposal and the back from the –
 River, I paint along the river all the time will be a personal loss to me. He says you can block out these views. You see I've done it right here in this picture, and you personally are about to vote on something that's about to do this, okay? Or you can limit the development with the current limits back to what they were originally designed to be.
 I urge the City Council to stick with the current development limits and not grant the exceptions. I do support the appeal and I hope you will too. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Sally Mize. I've lived in the Pearl for seven years as a renter. And I am really a person that is ground level every day, all over the city, up and down both sides.
 And I'm 100% walker, cyclist, and transit user. So I am out there. I call myself a boots-on-the-ground person. I lead a foot patrol in the Pearl through the Livability Committee with which I participate. And I love my city. And I'm, as a whole, not just the Pearl. And as I'm around it, especially in the walkways, I think of...
 two bridges that are icons, visual icons. One is Tilikum in all its beauty and thought of protecting all the people and its relativity to South Waterfront, which has beautifully
 enhance the riverfront by keeping low setbacks for the buildings and also adding an absolutely beautiful urban park. That connects with trails that already existed for many years. So has the Pearl done that, and we're gradually trying to do that throughout Portland and beyond. But I ask you to think of that...
 and the Tillicum Bridge as the south end icon, and the Fremont Bridge as the north end icon. And I walked that at least three times a week. And I stopped the other day and looked back from the north end of Fremont Bridge. And if you want to preserve the whole major curve of the Fremont Bridge,
 Look at it from there. They have done residences, completely beautiful setbacks, to exactly and ended them, the setbacks, and begun their buildings between front and the river so that the whole curve shows. So you've got an immediate north of the iconic Fremont Bridge, and you've got lots of river south of it.
 Let's protect it for all of us, please. And I invite you as a walker there to come down. I can show you in 30 minutes exactly the problem. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, all three of you. Next three, please. So, Mayor, before you do that, I don't think we've ever had the privilege of somebody submitting a work of art into the record. I don't know if he – is he willing to part with it? I just wanted to – I'd like a picture. Okay.
 I can see your name in here. What if we just took a picture and submitted the photo so we don't have to take his painting? We probably can't afford it. It's quite nice. I could submit the photo into the record. Is that acceptable if we just use a photograph of it? I think the image from Commissioner Udaly, if she gives it to Carla, will be great. Thank you. Awesome. Next three, please. I'm sorry. Carol Yarrow, Keith Tellem, and Lawrence W. Erickson are up now. All right.
 And they'll be followed by Rod O'Hearley, Kevin Cosgrove, and Jeannie Coates. And we're looking for Carol Yarrow, Keith Tellem, and Lawrence Erickson now. Yeah, there's a bit of a delay, so we can wait a minute. And Carla, if we have people in the overflow rooms, it looks like we still have some space upstairs. I don't know if they're limiting the number upstairs. Okay.
 Yeah, let's read three more names and see if we can get some folks. We'll accommodate people as they come in. Kevin Cosgrove here. Let's come on up. There's Kevin. Come on up, Kevin. Jeannie Coates. Very good. Hi, Jeannie. And how about Stephen Kofori? He's coming down. Great. Thank you.
 I see Steven. Okay, good. Why don't you go ahead and start? Thank you. Yes, thank you. My name is Jeannie Coates. I've lived in the Pearl for a little over four years. And I want you to notice I have no notes with me. I don't need to go through a litany of points because I think that my predecessors have all done a wonderful job of that. But I wanted to speak to you from the heart. Thank you.
 I was born here in 1951 at Good Samaritan Hospital. I have lived virtually my entire life here. And I love it. I love our views, our mountains, our bridges, our waterway. All of that is very special to me. I even remember when they floated the Fremont Bridge down the river and up into place. Very special memory.
 So I want to call upon you to look out for what is right for the City of Portland. Use your vision, use your power, let's get this project redirected and back on track. Thank you, good afternoon. Hi, my name is Kevin Cosgrove. I've lived here since 1980. Like many of the people who have testified, I came here because of the attractions of a city which has an international reputation.
 It also has a reputation for its planning and its care about the process to approve certain projects. I'm going to focus, having heard many of the people talk today, on the specifics of the way that this building was approved, the process that was gone through, the fact that it's been testified here today that,
 There were certain, if you like, short circuits that would appear to have been taken in order to get this project on the way. And I would ask you, each of you, as the stewards of this city's reputation, the stewards of this city's heritage, to pay close attention to the facts in the way that your attorney has pointed out.
 This isn't about the emotion of people saying, where's my view of a bridge? This is about people saying, not only where's my view of a bridge, but how did that apartment building get to the point where it could be approved in the way that it has been? So, in my opinion, you, you, you and the man on the phone have an enormous amount of...
 of history to look at and an enormous amount of legacy to take into account. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Member of the Council. My name is Stephen Kofori. I do live in the Pearl, but I live in the southern portion, and as my view is to the south, I have no individual interest in this appeal. However, as a citizen of the city, I have a huge interest in the outcome. Thank you.
 For decades, I have been involved with and supportive of the planning process that has made this one of the most livable cities in the world. This proposal flies in the face of all that planning. I agree, along with the citizens here today, that although height and density are desirable, we all live in high-rise buildings and many of us in the Pearl, after all. This project is the wrong size and the wrong place. This city made a huge mistake.
 on the east end of the Burnside Bridge, allowing what one commissioner has called an eyesore. Please don't make another one on the other side of the river. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Thank you. Next three, please. Was there a Lawrence Erickson? Okay. Then the next three will be Jeffrey Cash, Jill Rizzi, and Claudia Cosgrove.
 Why don't you go ahead and start, sir. I'm Jeffrey Cash. I'm a resident of the Pearl. And I want to speak again. I mean, people have said most of what I want to say, so I just want to recognize a couple of points.
 point out that the developer received a variance, and that's what we're really at the issue of what we're talking about today, is whether those variances should have properly been granted to build a building that, in particular, that I want to talk about is the encroachment on the Greenway. You know, in some places it's as narrow as 13 feet now and 25 feet maximum, and the developer was essentially given 30 feet to develop which belonged to the public.
 And I simply look at the plans for future development in Portland, which I generally support, and I know that we're going to see more and more people in the urban core of Portland, more and more people living there, more and more people coming in for the afternoon or the evening. We need more parkland. Why should we give a variance to a developer that gives away parkland that we already own? You know, many years ago,
 I think someone else mentioned it, to Tom McCall Park was wharves and all kinds of things and then road or a freeway was going to be put through there and people had the foresight to say, no, that land is far too valuable for those uses. We need to hold it for the public. Why would we give away other land in an area that we know we're going to be having more people in?
 So that's my question, and I might want to comment, and I want to thank you for your attention to all the people who came today. Thank you. Very good, and just one interesting historical point. The city actually went farther than that. It was the Harbor Freeway, and we reclaimed that as a green space. That's not part of this hearing, but just as an historical point of note. Thank you. Next three, Carla. Our Jerry Mars, Christian Maynard, and John Hollister. Good afternoon. Afternoon.
 My name is Jerry Mars. I live in the Pearl, and I just have a few things to say. The Fremont Apartments is asking for modifications to their building, with two being significant deviations to the building structure. Those are encroaching on a 45-degree river setback that was mentioned earlier, and also increasing the depth of their building from 200 feet to over 230 feet.
 So a five-story building is going to tower within a couple feet of the greenway to build a restaurant. When did we start trading off our green space along the riverfront for restaurants? I have not heard a valid reason why these modifications make this a better project. And also the Fremont Apartments will be the first in three building sites to be developed on the Pearl Waterfront since Waterfront Pearl.
 The Fremont Apartments will set the stage for this redevelopment and therefore needs to follow city regulations which are based upon a joint neighborhood, landowner, and city land use planning effort.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Christian Maynard-Phillip. I'll keep this short and sweet. Can you get just a little closer to me? Oh, yeah. Go ahead. You can move it towards you. Can you hear me now? Yeah, that's good. Thank you, Christian. My name is Christian Maynard-Phillip. I work and I'm a homeowner in the Pearl. I'm also the Pearl District Neighborhood Association treasurer. I speak on behalf of myself, not on behalf of the PD&A.
 I am here to represent the next generation of Portlanders that will make their homes and build their businesses in the Pearl. I urge you to carefully consider our very legitimate grievances as well as the legacy of this decision. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi, my name is John Hollister. And the plan was to have us be a team, like a nine-minute team. So I wanted to, you know, they both used less than a minute and a half each. So I'm asking a little too late, I think. But I am going to make a rule. We adopted that rule. Yeah, no. We'd be having people speak forever, and our rule is three minutes per person. That makes sense. I understand. Okay, here we go.
 My name is John Hollister, PD and board member, Planning and Transportation Committee. But today I'm speaking as an individual. I met all of you last March 29th, the day of the famous lockdown. And then met you again on June 14th at the Pearl East Appeal. And Mayor, you said, as you said today, that your decisions today are constrained in approval criteria and in their interpretation.
 and you also were concerned why I was alone. I'm not alone today. Okay, so how do I get slide one going? Okay, the design commission's been busy, and there's a tremendous, I have tremendous respect for these volunteers. And there's just so much work, there's no way they can spend as much time on every issue as someone like me might on a single issue.
 So I think that they've done a good job, but there's just too much to cover. And I think the same thing for staff. I think Ben has done a wonderful job as well. Okay. As it's been said here, this building is much more than about the view, but the view is pretty iconic.
 I am the only one that testified about the view corridor. This is not about the view corridor today, but you can see that with proper notification or with better communication from me, we would have had more people talking about that. I'm going to go through these very quickly. How do you correct a problem? How do you correct a mistake once it's been made?
 Here is an aerial for orientation. It's somewhat in the middle there is the parking lot where the project is going to be going. And to the far right are the two towers of Waterfront Pearl. The rest of my presentation, 41 seconds, will focus on the precedents mentioned. The precedents referred to simply don't match up. The Waterfront Pearl...
 Yeah, this is a water feature. The water feature in this proposed project is, and I read it again today, it is a storm drain and the willamette. Here are some pictures of the different view corridors with the openness of the waterfront. Bridgestone Labs, this is a greenway, 50-foot greenway. They got extra feet, but it's a 50-foot greenway, not 25. So this is the view there.
 And when you take all these into consideration, the amenities that were given for those extra types of things are very significant. And when all of them just went for one of the major ones, these went for both and another and another. I'm in sales, and if I can get seven things, I'll get seven things, and I'll almost think that I didn't ask for enough. But that's what they did, and I'm done. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, all three of you.
 Next three, please. I believe that was all who was on the list. Did anybody sign up who didn't hear their name? Mayor, while we're bringing other people forward, can I ask legal counsel a question? Just come on up if you signed up and you didn't hear your name. If you've signed up, please come on up. Please come on up. Thank you. Sure. Commissioner Fish. I want to ask our counsel a question. You know, a number of months ago, we took up a major reform effort around boards and commissions. And one of the components of that effort was...
 We wanted to encourage minority reports and some mechanism for minority reports to come to council. So we get the benefit of split decisions. We've had a number of people testify today that Julie Livingston, the chair of design review, was in the minority in a decision below, has perhaps authored some opinion on this project. But it's not part of the materials that are in my packet.
 So I guess I have two questions. One is, what is the normal procedure for us to have the benefit of a dissenting opinion if someone presents it? And how does that information come to us? Because it's a little odd to have it filtered through people testifying in favor of the appeal, with all due respect. It's not the equivalent of actually having the report that Julie has apparently authored. So what are your thoughts on that?
 So first of all, generally speaking, I won't give you a legal opinion on first impression in a large public setting because I haven't had a chance to think through this and I've not been the one primarily involved in the boards and commissions. But it's my understanding that that is in the process of implementation. So I don't suspect that the design commission has had the opportunity to address
 address that issue. I know there are boards and commissions I have worked with, for example, the Charter Commission that decided to provide both the majority and minority opinions on things, but I don't know that they've had the opportunity to consider that yet. So is it your view, though, conceptually, that any written opinion by a commission member is part of the record before us? No.
 Not unless it's placed before and not rejected by this body. The record consists of what's put in the record, and I just honestly don't know whether there's – But if that's not put in the record, it's not technically before. So the other option – And I don't think there's necessarily anything that would prevent it from being placed in the record. I'm just not aware that there is such a – Okay. And I guess the other issue is we frequently have hearings where members of the design commission testify –
 And nothing prevents a dissenting member of the design commission from coming to testify, does it? I believe they have recently adopted new bylaws. I don't know that there's anything in there that speaks to that. I mean, there's nothing in our code that would prevent them from doing so. But I don't know whether there's anything in their bylaws that speaks to it, again. Mayor, the reason I raise this, obviously, is that –
 by the time something comes to us and it's already had a hearing and a robust debate, I mean, I have always found it very useful to understand the thinking of the Design Review Commission. We have very thoughtful appointees who put a lot of time and energy. And it is fairly unusual to be told that the chair dissents on an issue. I can't think of the last time that was a fact before us. And if that –
 If someone in the minority chose to write a report, it may or may not influence my thinking on the subject, but it would seem to me to be useful to have access to that so I could have the benefit of their thinking. And when people are testifying about someone's dissent, I'd actually, with all due respect, rather read the words of the person who wrote it and make my own judgment than hear secondhand. So I don't know how to address that, because I don't think this has come up before.
 So I was just thinking, and staff came up and had the same thought, which is that...
 When the just as here when you vote and it's not a unanimous decision You all have the opportunity to say what you're thinking and why you're voting the way you are The design commission does the same one thing that is in the record are both of minutes and the tapes from the design review Commission's decision and there's that is in the record and you have the Opportunity to review that as a part of your decision-making here and staff can make that available to you. Okay. Thank you guys very helpful Good
 Thank you. Last two people, thank you for your patience. Would you like to start, please? I'm Sherry Green. I live in the Pearl. I've lived in the Pearl since 1994, so I'm an old-timer. And the one word I would like to speak about today is precedent. When I bought my house, I live on Irving, and everything behind me was just totally empty. I could see all the way. There was nothing in the Pearl.
 And I knew that being a wonderful place that it was, it was going to get developed. But I called the Planning Commission and I said, I'm just curious as to what else you have planned. And I was told very succinctly that there would be, that there was going to be a four-story limit of buildings in the Pearl. Now this is 1994. I'm not really good at math, but I can sure count more than four, I'll tell you that. And my concern is that if this project passes as it is, it's setting a precedent.
 And as president, I don't think we want to have. That's the only thing I have to say. Thank you. Well said. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Rod O'Hearn. I've lived in the Portland metropolitan area for the last five decades. Thanks for the opportunity to voice our opinion. I agree with the chairman's decision on the negative impact that this will have on the Greenway. Not only do we enjoy the splendor
 that this particular area provides, the views, the walking paths, the bike paths. But all of our relatives that come into town, the people that we ask to come visit us, this is where we bring them, not only to the restaurants, to the different entities that our Portland provides, but the river. It's huge. Also, we spend a lot of time on the water, kayaking, boating, rowing. I wish I would have made a picture of what it would look like from the water
 and the skyline. The reason myself and my gal live in this area is because the community, it's the people. They're kind, they're considerate, they're connected, and they care. I can fully understand why the developers sought for these modifications. There literally are millions of reasons why. Typically I'll start with a dollar sign and end with a decimal point. Few people will actually benefit by this. The wealthy investors,
 the owners and contractors for a short period of time. There's millions of reasons why. There's also millions of reasons why not. That's the people that live in Portland, the Portlanders, the people who enjoy this city. Every person that elected you to become the good stewards of our property and our environment. You are the caretakers of our community. Just like the caretakers from the past
 the elected officials who designed the codes that are now in place. There's reason for those codes. It's to protect against the few. Now, we understand that we can't change progress or the condos or the development, but the so-called modifications, it's a very gentle word for what's happening, especially for such dramatic impact to our city and the environment. So, we would urge you to be good stewards with our riverfront properties.
 We would urge you to be the elected officials and to make the right decisions for our community. Allowing the modifications is not being a good steward for us and our property and the community. It's likely that the day will come in your future when you're not in politics and you're walking along the riverfront and you will say to yourselves, with your kids or your grandkids, I made a choice. I made a good decision.
 We all, our community, will be better off without the modifications. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks for your patience. Very good. Next, we will hear from the principal opponent. If my memory serves correctly, you have 17 minutes and 4 seconds. Name for the record, please. Thank you. Thank you.
 hi i'm allison reynolds with perkins cooee and we are land use council for the applicant lincoln property company and today i've got with me patrick gilligan who is with lincoln property company and after i'm done with this he'll talked a little bit about lincoln's investment in the city and this project specifically and then also with me at the end of the table is tim waibanga with tva architects
 And Tim has been the principal architect of this project and has really been sort of working with the neighborhood and the design commission on all the various changes that took place over about a year and a half period to try to bring this project to what it is today, which we think is something that provides a lot of public benefit and a great design for the site.
 But my job here, I guess, is to talk a little bit about a couple of the legal issues that were highlighted by the appellants. And I won't go into a huge amount of depth with these today, but we did submit a written argument to you a couple of days ago that I hope you guys have. And if you have any additional questions, we're, of course, happy to answer those.
 So the first issue I think is one that you've heard a number of testifiers talk about today, and that is the floor area ratio calculation for the site. And so as you probably know, under the development code, you have basically a size of a person
 property. And then that gets multiplied by a number. And that equates to the amount of floor area that you can build in a building. And that, of course, has to, if you have a design overlay like this property does, go through discretionary design review. So just because you have it doesn't mean you can build it. But it does actually give you sort of a legal limit for how big the building can be.
 And so the first question about that was raised as to whether or not for calculating that size of the underlying property, the Greenway setback and public plaza area should be contained
 as part of the site or excluded. And opponents of the project cited a code section that is actually not part of the code that governs this project. And so as you guys know, the code can change from the date of application to when you all actually are seeing this in an appeal setting. And so this project was submitted in November 2016, and the code section that was referenced is actually something that was adopted on March 31, 2017.
 And so that reference is something that you should just be aware does not actually apply here. And the code in effect at the time is clear that an ownership is what encompasses that site. And things like easements for the Greenway or a public plaza that you provide on your site do not deduct from that total square footage.
 The second issue is one that is really in the legal weeds, and I will try to simplify this, but the question of exactly how far toward the river the site actually is.
 actually physically stretches. And opponents are correct that back in actually the 1800s, there was a determination by the Oregon legislature of where the state actually owns versus where private parties own. But there was actually a four year period during which legislation dedicated that back to private property owners. And if you perfected your deed to your site during that time, you actually then own that little sliver between the ordinary low and the ordinary high.
 And that is the case for this property. We had discussed this at length with staff, and it was a big part of our due diligence because we do not want these folks to design a building that cannot actually be built on their site. And so we actually would like you to leave the record open until Friday so we can submit all of this material. We had discussed it with staff, and I believe they have it, but I don't actually think it's part of the formal record. And we, of course, want you to have the benefit of that for this.
 appeal. Could you stop the clock for a second? I want to ask you a question. Could you go a few sentences deeper on that? So there was some time period by which the state granted property owners the ability to go all the way to the, I would assume, the low tide line. Is that correct? Yep. And how long did that time period last and when was that time period?
 So that was between 1874, when the legislature enacted legislation which essentially deeded the submerged lands that are between ordinary high and ordinary low to the owners of the adjacent upland. And then they repealed that legislation in 1878.
 And so it is during that four-year period in the 1800s, if you actually perfected the deed to your property, you were governed under the law that was in effect and then was repealed. So your contention, and you say you have the documents to back this, and I'll just trust you on this for the time being. So your contention is during that period between 1874 and 1878, whoever—
 owned the land did, in fact, perfect the deed. They did. And that has been passed on. Yep. And it has never been carved out. Continuous change. Yes, exactly. To eventually when Lincoln Property Company became the owner of the site. All right, thank you. You can start the talk again. I was just curious. No worries. So that is all I will say on that issue. But just know that it was fully vetted by our team, and we will provide those documents to you.
 The other two quick legal issues, first the locker room floor area ratio bonus. The code is clear that if you are in an EX or CX zone site in the city and you meet the various requirements of that for a mixed use building, a residential building, a commercial building, you are allowed to have a locker room and get a bonus for that for FAR.
 And we should just note too that we have one shower for male use and one for female use. We just kind of provided two. And then we have a few lockers associated with that. But it's no bigger than that. And so we feel that if restaurant employees or other employees of the building were to bike to work, that that would probably be the primary users of those rather than folks that are actually in the units. But they would be available to anyone who used the building.
 Could you stop the clock again? So the contention was made during testimony that, and I may have misheard the individual, so I apologize if I did, that you are required to store your bike in your apartment, or did I just mishear that? I believe.
 I believe you, I don't know actually if you misheard it or not, but as far as what the code requires, the building is required to provide a certain number of long-term bicycle parking spaces, and those can be provided in your unit or in a sort of common area. And so this project actually provides one bicycle storage, I guess it's a rack that goes in the unit per unit, and then we will also have an additional bicycle storage area with places for more spaces.
 And the code actually requires more spaces than could fit in one per unit. So we're giving more than that. Okay, very good. So just to be clear, your view is that under our code that applies, your client is entitled to 175 feet.
 For height? For height. So there is a modification that you can get under the code that would allow the design commission, by finding that a height of 175 feet on this property better meets the design guidelines and is consistent with the purpose of the standard height here, to be modified to grant that height.
 And I don't want to put words in the design commission's mouth, and I know that Tim can probably speak better to how that occurred. But that was the finding, that essentially a building with a podium and a tower that kind of swept sort of on one side of the bridge better met those guidelines than a 100-foot building would have been able to. Okay, so it's not an entitlement. It's a discretionary action. And so we got a lot of testimony about...
 about the impact on the greenway. So how would this project be different if we preserved a 25-foot greenway?
 So that's actually something that we also discuss in length in the legal submission that I sent in. And I think the staff also talked about this too. But just to make clear, there is a 25-foot setback from, I believe it's here, a seawall on this property that encompasses the Greenway. Our project actually then sets back
 back, I believe, another approximately three and a half feet from that to the closest point of the project to that greenway. So we are preserving not only that required 25-foot greenway setback, but then an additional setback. The setback that is being modified for this particular property is actually an angle where once you have achieved 35 feet in height next to the greenway, you are supposed to step back one foot for every foot up you go.
 And so it essentially creates this 45-degree angle back from the greenway that your building elevation is supposed to meet. And this building is requiring a modification to that to allow essentially the building to kind of encroach into that little angle area. But that step back would not address the concerns people raised about the view from the north?
 Excuse me, from the south, from the southeast. That would affect the look of the building from the river and the step back.
 So the modification is to that standard, the Greenway step back for the North Pearl. And I believe the reason that that was actually done was to allow the building to have the orientation that it does in order to preserve those views. So it kind of works in context with the other modifications in order to place the building where it is and preserve the view that is being preserved. And let me, since we have a lawyer here advocating for one side, let me ask you the question that I asked the other side, which is,
 in a transitional neighborhood where we know that many of the parcels are going to be redeveloped, what is the appropriate definition of context? And I mean, I think that is almost a harder question for a lawyer to ask than for a design professional. But here, I believe that we were thinking of context in sort of the developing nature of the North Pearl neighborhood, and not just looking at the buildings that are next to us, because these are not buildings that are
 I have no idea when they will actually redevelop, but it seems likely that they will redevelop in the future. And so part of the context, I think, is sort of that the neighborhood, it has come all the way up to NATO. And so making sure that we are integrating with both the things that are around, the way the river integrates with the project, and the other developments that are kind of part of the North Pearl, but separated from this by NATO. Okay, thank you. All right.
 I think that's probably good for me. You've heard too much from the lawyer for a design review proposal. So I'm going to turn this over. Can I ask one question before you transition? Commissioner Salter. So you said the site development or the site area calculation. Mm-hmm.
 was changed in March 31st of 2017? Not really. It's just that there is a code section that was added to the measurement section that is being relied upon by appellants when they make the argument that those areas should be taken out of the site. We actually would argue that under the code today and the code...
 when this project was actually submitted, that both of those support our interpretation. But we were just pointing out that the argument is being made based on that code section, and that is not something that the council is able to consider because that is not a code regulation that applies to this project. And you're saying there was a code interpretation in March of...
 2017? It was actually through one of your code changes, the recap process. I believe it was recap 8 and that added a number of different sections to the zoning code. And so it was during that point that that was added to the code. So it's a new code section completely. It does not exist in the code that's in effect for the application date of this project. Okay. So in your opinion then, the current definition of site area should include the esplanade
 to the north and the Greenway section to the east? Yes. In our opinion, the definition of site is an ownership and the property owner here, Lincoln, owns both the area that has a Greenway easement on it and the plaza area that was in question. Okay. Thank you.
 So with that, I will turn it over to Patrick Gilligan with Lincoln Property Company to tell you a little bit about his role, and then we'll move on to Tim Wibenga with TVA Architects. Thank you. Thanks, Allison. Mayor and commissioners, thanks for your time today. So developers of the project, this gets to qualm a few people.
 A few rumors here. I'm a Portland resident. I live five blocks away. I office across the street, oversee local staff, about 25 people. And I'm responsible for roughly 50 buildings representing 4.5 million square feet in the Portland metro area. So I'm definitely here. This is home.
 You know, this has been a really big project for us. We spent a lot of time. We set a goal of being transparent, working with staff, working with the design commissioners. It's been a long battle, but we're really excited with the way it's come out and the design we have today and are excited to hopefully keep moving it forward. Other projects that we work on here in the area of Wells Fargo Center, PacWest Center, again, this is home for us. So we're very committed to Portland and making the city a better place as much as we can through our projects. So thank you for your time, and I'll turn it over to Tim.
 Excellent. Tim Wybenga with TVA Architects. As Allison said, I've been part of this project from the outset, and I'm going to kind of try and quickly go through a year and a half worth of process in the next seven or eight minutes. And then there are some pieces of information that are in the back of the printed packet on the slides here that are really graphic illustrations that help represent some of the points that were made in public testimony. So if you have any specific questions, obviously we'll be happy to come back to those.
 The first thing in general is just looking at the site. So this is a surface parking lot. So this is not a park. It's sort of an anomaly on the waterfront that we have two low scale suburban style office buildings and a large surface parking lot. So in the essence of the site, not to revisit this too often, but these diagrams that you've seen in other contexts really describe that.
 the difference between, we've tried to be very clear about the difference between the allowable base height, base floor area, and that, those pieces that are available to us through bonus and through modification. This just kind of gives a general look at that. From this general understanding of the allowable scale and volume of this, we did several studies and many, many studies. These diagrams show
 What's important about this, we've said from the outset, it's been quite clear, there is no protected view from Fields Park. There is no protected view really anywhere pertinent to this site.
 However, we recognize that what a lot of these people said at the outset and through the testimony is correct. This is an important part of Portland. And so from the beginning we said let's see what we can do from a good neighbor standpoint from day one of this project to mitigate this with
 without the requirement to do so. And so what you see in these studies, and you'll see throughout here, is that we took that view from Fields Park as being important and have studied the mass of the building. And so what's happened through the process is we've actually moved mass out of the podium, which would have
 more of a negative effect on that view, and pulled it towards the tower. And there's a few more things that we can kinda go through. This diagram is one that you may have seen previously. So, and Ben put it in his presentation. This describes the project by right, which is the 100 foot red orange block.
 and it describes you can kind of see where the uh where we've moved volume out of that building into the tower element to to increase the visibility of the bridge and again this is from one specific vantage point uh as you know they're just about every building in the pearl and downtown obscures the bridge in some way so most of our relationship with the bridge
 isn't a complete span of the arch until you get to the waterfront, and we'll kind of get to that as well. In terms of the process, and there's been a lot of, I think...
 Mistruths being told in terms of the way this might have been pushed through or something else, we've met with the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, myself and my colleagues, four times for two or two and a half hours each time talking through the minutia of the project and the big vision as well. There's me presenting that same view diagram to the committee. So we've spent a lot of time on this with the neighbors and
 did so not as a requirement because we wanted the neighbors to be on board and we wanted to get that input. Similarly, there's no shortage of public process besides pre-apps and we've had a design advice review hearing and we've had four public hearings, so no shortage of opportunity for public comment and no shortage of iterations to go back and forth with the design commission.
 To that point, this next plan is actually the site plan as it existed at the time of our DAR. So there are some substantial changes here in the next couple slides that have to deal with our interaction with the design commission and also with the neighborhood. First and foremost is that in this plan we had a
 really a combined pedestrian auto court on the north side of this building to try and get resident vehicles into the building and then to the east of that was essentially a lawn area through secondly the other thing that you'll see here is the the Greenway Trail itself so that represents the existing condition of the Greenway Trail which at the time we were intending to leave another thing that came up and I'll go through the
 So this is where we ended up through the process. So what was a 10-foot public access to the river, combining cars and pedestrians, is now a 60-foot wide major public space designed as a multi-use space to bring residents of the Pearl to the river and to bring activity to the river. Similarly, through our interaction specifically with the PDNA, we've
 We went back on the plan of leaving the existing greenway condition, partly because it's not particularly friendly. And one of the primary things we got out of one of those meetings was the existing trees are riverward of the greenway. So the trees themselves become an obstruction. So in redesigning this, we've tried to design something that will increase public amenity. Can you keep this slide on for a second? So there's been a lot of comparisons to Riverfront Pearl.
 and I ride my bike through Riverfront Pearl a lot. Can you explain to us how bikes and pedestrians are meant to navigate this particular greenway? I can. I also have another exhibit at the end that kind of describes the section. What I can tell you is that the existing greenway, right, the greenway is 25 feet wide as an easement. It's required to be a combination of plantings and hardscape. The existing hardscape is...
 at the narrow points between the tree well and the edge of Wauk is 12.5 feet. So that entire stretch, which you probably run or ridden your bike, about 1,100 feet here between this parcel and the Fremont Bridge, is to that same standard. So what we've done here is try to acknowledge the fact that
 uh we have a 13 foot minimum width which we have gone through an iterative process with parks and with the neighborhood to get to that number and a 18 foot average width so 13 feet is at the pinch point and part of what we're trying to do here the greenway ends here
 currently. And so what we're trying to do from an urban planning and a design perspective is to provide something that deals with the fact that this is a transitional space. That for the time being, a 25-foot wide sidewalk that goes and cuts off at the end, at the current end of the south side, essentially is one of those freeway off ramps that never went anywhere. And so what we've tried to do instead is to say, design something that has a better experience for pedestrians and for the neighbors.
 Does that answer the question? Yeah. So again, here's that existing condition. So the Greenway itself, no eyes on it. It's adjacent to the surface parking lot. And the Greenway trails ends there at the upper left of the site.
 So our proposal, and again, there's been a lot of talk about cutting off the river or not providing access to the river. I think this image essentially shows what we've come to through this process, which is a substantial 60-foot wide public space that directly links people from NATO Parkway and eventually to the Pearl to the river frontage.
 and an augmented design for the Greenway itself that provides spaces for people to sit, congregate. It acknowledges the sort of temporary condition where the Greenway is not approved to the south.
 Sorry, this view is from the northeast. You can see the existing building there. So a lot of this stuff was developed over several meetings with the neighborhood and through several meetings, obviously, with the design commission. But we feel we're providing a huge public amenity. And, again, if you compare this to any other project in the Pearl sitting on a 200 by 200 block, there are generally zero public amenities. So there really has been a lot of work done.
 that's been provided here that's intended for that public benefit in order to justify some of the things that we've requested. Another thing in terms of the site plan that's really key, you can see someone mentioned earlier, this building and NATO Parkway are at a shift from the Pearl District grid of a little over 40 degrees. What that means is – I lost my page. What that means is –
 We actually used this L-shaped tower, which the design commission gave us a lot of trouble about. Why is it an L? And the reason is it minimizes the sight lines. And so what you can see there, if you look at the length, top, bottom in this plan, that's the length extension. And the reason we requested that specific length is it doesn't change the vantage point from Fields Park. So we were able to put some of that volume in the building in a place that,
 takes into consideration the very viewpoint that people are so concerned about. And then I guess I would offer this one to show the context. What you can see here is this is a building in and of the Pearl. The tower element itself, in terms of the question of context,
 This tower belongs in the Pearl. Most of the towers in the Pearl are substantially larger than this. In terms of stepping down to the river, you can see that through our process with the design commission, it substantially steps down to the river. In terms of its context with adjacent buildings, it has the same relationship to the Greenway and to the river as the existing adjacent facilities. So could you stop the clock for a second? So there's been a lot of discussion about this.
 notion of context. What does it mean to you as an architect? As you're looking at this building, and I heard what you just said in terms of the size of the other building, what does it mean? It is, when these things, when these questions come up, I always remember what my dad said to me when he told me not to go into architecture school, which is that I was leaving engineering where facts were quantifiable into a field where everybody got an opinion.
 And it's true, right? This is all highly subjective. And so what I would say in terms of context is not the same as what someone else would say. What we've tried to do here is to balance context in terms of both the fact that this is sitting in the largest, most highly developed residential neighborhood in the city,
 and it sits on the waterfront. So the scale cues and the material cues of these podium elements are taken directly from the flower mill at Centennial Mill, they're taken from Alvarez Mill. That's the scale, that's sort of the repetition of these masonry elements that ties into, you know, if you picture Alvarez Mill, you picture the flower building at Centennial Mill, there's a regularity and a repetition.
 And we've tried to nest those two things together and acknowledge that the context of this building is actually certainly of two or many more minds. And we've tried to meld both the modernity of the towers and the pearl together with something that is contextual in its texture, scale, and placement. Thank you.
 So I'll keep going through here. Just in general, you can look at these things in your packet. These are all the public amenities we're talking about. This was designed in conversation with the design commission. They really wanted something more. That was the same we heard from the PDNA. Yeah, OK, this is good. We want something more. We want something extra.
 When we got to, in addition to the 60-foot wide plaza space, was the idea of kind of creating this head condition at the intersection of the Greenway and this new plaza. It's a space where people can come, congregate, potentially use it as an amphitheater, a spot for a lecture, or just to sit and enjoy the view and the river. And the bridge, of course. Can I ask you a question about this public plaza? Whose responsibility is the management of this plaza?
 But unfortunately, that's us. I'm sorry? It's a developer. It's still our property. So you're responsible for keeping a clean security and all that? Yeah, and we've been doing it on that site for a long time now since we've owned it. Very good. Thank you. I laughed because that's been a point of contention between Patrick and me. The more evolved the public spaces get, the more his team has to manage. Understood. Thank you. OK, I'll continue on here.
 This view actually shows what is currently the terminus of the Greenway. So this is an area where the Greenway expands by another 15 or 16 feet over the required amount. And the idea is we're trying to create something here that at the time, its current time is a terminus of that Greenway from north to south, but it's something that kind of becomes a knuckle or a joint for the future development. So it becomes a pause point in the future. These are all sort of just
 urban design concepts. The other thing that's come out of our conversations with the PD&A and with the design commission is we've actually gone and incorporated some units, so direct eyes on the Greenway. So we're thinking these are probably short stay units. At the outset of the project, for very practical reasons of this sort of being the end of the run, we had mechanical space there. That wasn't OK with the PD&A.
 probably wasn't the best decision from an urban design perspective. So we've gone around in detail to kind of create something that's a little more energetic. And of course, one thing we haven't talked much about, I guess, is the, sorry, what's shown here
 In the center of this image we do think it's important that there are places for people to get out on the river We think it's important that there are different types of activities on the river. So this Dining space which the the owner is encouraged us to do to help activate Riverfront to get more eyes on the greenway to get more people to the water is something that we incorporated after our first couple hearings with the city and we think it adds a real vibrancy a real livability component to this project and
 Is there an existing condition of approval that requires the public space be open to the public 24-7? No.
 Do you know that? I believe this is just out of the code, and so there is no condition of approval that's associated with that. But I believe that was the intention. Because it is a public plaza, it will not be in any way confined from the public that it be open at all times. So we've clarified that in prior decisions in two instances where we've had that representation made in the record, and if necessary, made it as a condition of approval.
 It's your understanding that the code requires it be open 24-7? I am not. I don't want to speak to something and be incorrect. And so I don't actually know the answer to that. But I believe that is our intention. And so if that was something that isn't in the code that you guys do want clarified, then we would be, I believe,
 able to accept a condition. Yeah. Alison, I believe the current, we have a, there is an easement on the Greenway right now that they're on the other part of the property. And it's, I think, and again across other points on the Greenway, that it's, I think, 5 AM to 10 PM, the hours of use. That's just the signage that we've seen in that area so far. Yeah, and I believe that's specific to the Greenway versus this actual public plaza area. But yeah.
 The public plaza is, purports to be a public amenity and the land is used to
 calculate the extra height. So I think it's a relevant question about whether there are any restrictions placed on the public access to that site. Yes, and we would be happy to look into that and get back to you. For your question, I believe we would be acceptable, a condition of that nature would be acceptable if it's not already required by the code. So either way, we're happy to provide that as a 24-hour amenity if needed. Thank you. Excellent, so I will try to leave a little bit of time here.
 We have plenty of things here. If you want to talk about context, you want to ask us any more specific questions, we can kind of go through this at the end. Please just give a general idea of what's most been evolved in this building over the course of all those meetings with the PD&A and all those meetings with the design commission is,
 a focus on the human-scaled public access pieces. And that's hopefully evident through what we've done here, and we've spent a lot of time on it. We believe this is a huge amenity for the area, and we really believe this is the right building for the right space. So I'll leave it there. If you have any questions on any of the specific appeal issues, I can try and put you in. I have a couple of questions. So with regard to the width of the Greenway walk,
 It is your contention there is no encroachment? Absolutely not. I should have addressed that. I actually understand, having sat through even the most recent neighborhood meeting to try and listen in and see what the issues are, I understand why people are really upset. Because this has been conveyed that the city has given city property, public property, park property to a developer
 Which is not the case. There's a 25 foot greenway. There's still a 25 foot greenway. We don't encroach on that width at all. In fact, it's slightly bigger in numerous places. And the width constriction issue that we dealt with most substantially with the neighborhood planning and transportation committee was the question of how wide is the actual walking surface?
 one of the appellants mentioned the Parks District. Well, the Parks District has requirements for this space, which include landscape standards. So it's not acceptable to build a 25-foot-wide sidewalk besides the fact that it's not particularly appealing. So we've really tried to work, as we have with the mass of the building, to kind of control the movement of people and to create a space that's...
 It's beautiful and appealing whether or not there are people in it or it's completely packed. So that's where that width question, the only valid width question I think comes from is, is 13 feet too narrow? When we first went to the neighborhood,
 We had a 10-foot section, which we thought was the, again, this is not the greenway. It's the paved portion of the greenway. It's always been 25 feet. So the question is, where we have landscape areas and it necks down, what's the right number? And we settled on 13, which is wider than most of what exists there today.
 So somebody gave a very reasoned argument around the exaggeration of the buildable site. And I think it was proffered that you have exaggerated by 70% the buildable. What is your reaction to that? That's actually, I presume what they're saying is germane to what Allison addressed earlier, which is that the contention is that the site area
 to get to that number and i'm not sure how they would get to that number but it means you'd have to take any part of the site that the public can use and subtract it out of the of the owned area of the site so
 The entire public and many of that plaza would be taken out. The greenway would be taken out. Any other property that doesn't have a building on it, I think the contention is that that's not buildable area and doesn't count towards the site. I think that's what we understand, the case they're making, but that certainly isn't the way this has been interpreted in any other project we've ever been a part of.
 Very good. Mayor, can I jump in for a second? Please, Commissioner Fish. I understand that one of the three bases for your bonus height is an eco-roof? Yes. And my assumption is that the standard for the eco-roof is not the current standard that Commissioner Udaly has put into 2035, but is the preexisting standard? Yes.
 I would say yes. We've substantially tightened the requirement to expand the footprint, and I assume you're using the old standard for the eco-roof? Yeah, that's correct, based on the code that's applicable to this project. So it would be the 2016 code. I'm looking at page 21 of this beautiful handout you gave us. And...
 Can you tell me off of that picture what actually constitutes the green roof and what is the kind of large rectangular space on the short portion of the building? Sure. I should say our team member who did these beautiful images is sitting here, and he's probably panicking because these would fall into the artist's rendition more than precise drawings. But this...
 They're based on our model, so they're actually quite close. What's shown there very diagrammatically, the green space on top of that lowest podium, everything shown in green, it's actually a breakdown. Some of that actually fits the definition. It's all planted, but some of it doesn't fit the definition of green roof per the code. The tan colored space is a terrace. And so there's actually another terrace that kind of wraps around.
 You can see a little bit of it here on the shoulder on the southeast corner. Again, there's kind of a split between occupied terrace and green roof. What we elected to do with the green roof is to not put it in places where it wouldn't grow or wouldn't be seen, like in the mechanical well at the top of the building. So we've tried to mix that in with landscaping and with spaces that can be occupied.
 Very good. Commissioner Saltzman, anything else before we move to the next group? I was just curious, is this building going to meet a particular LEED standard? There's no LEED certification plan for this building.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fish, I just did a quick search of the code. And I don't believe that the plaza has any sort of requirement regarding 24-hour access. So if that is a condition of approval that you would like to add to this, we are happy to craft one of those for you if that would be helpful. We'll get to that later. Thank you. OK. Sounds good. Thank you. So I try to keep all of my comments germane.
 to the hearing and to the parameters of the hearing. So I will just say this. I hope you will reconsider that LEED standard. If for no other reason, then I think that's what the market is looking for. But I realize that's not necessarily germane to this particular hearing. Rebuttal. No, wait. Opponents of the appeal, three minutes each. How many people do we have signed up? We have five people. Very good. You can cool your heels for a little bit and think about,
 desire for LEED certification. Thank you, Commissioner. First three are Madeline Kovacs, Alan Kessler, and Patricia Gardner. No, I agree with you. Yeah, I think we should do that. Are you all ready to go? Great. Okay. Three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Madeline Kovacs, and I am testifying today for the members of Portland for Everyone in support of the Fremont Apartments Project and in opposition to the appeal request by the Pearl District N.A. Thank you.
 I begin by asking council to please keep in your thoughts during these proceedings. All of those Portlanders who are desperately seeking housing are currently working or don't have the time or the resources to come and testify before you today. Excuse me. Excuse me, folks. You heard the rules right up front.
 And I made it very clear that you were going to hear opinions that were different than your own. And you heard people listening to your position respectfully. You need to do the same. Otherwise, you will be asked to leave. Please continue. The developers on the Fremont Apartments actively engaged with the neighborhood, adapting plans that are allowed outright under Portland Code to address local concerns and on due diligence. Plans were amended multiple times to accommodate concerns.
 Current condo residents fighting apartment towers similar to the ones they live in and that were allowed at the time they move in is ironic. We must also be clear about what is under consideration today and what is not. View corridors were established by an arduous long-range planning process, and the views discussed today in relation to this project were not among them.
 I would be remiss if we did not note that Portland for Everyone would support the project even more enthusiastically if the team had opted not to include parking and had instead opted in to involuntarily to the city's new inclusionary housing program. That said, we need more housing of all stripes and projects that meet land use and design requirements, provide enhanced public benefits, must be allowed to be built.
 This is also a key point for those concerned with protecting Portland's most vulnerable residents and other places from further displacement. As the White House said a few years ago in its housing development toolkit, when new housing development is limited region-wide, and particularly in neighborhoods of political capital to implement stricter local barriers, the new housing that does get built tends to disproportionately concentrate in low-income communities of color, causing displacement and concerns of gentrification in those neighborhoods.
 Portland City Council must be steadfast in demonstrating leadership and making decisions that will support our city's stated vision for the future. We must consider this and all projects cumulatively and in light of our stated long-range planning goals, the Climate Action Plan, the Comprehensive Plan, Equity and Anti-Displacement Goals. We must ensure that the continued build out of Portland's urban core while enabling walking, biking and the use of transit, a proposal to build hundreds of units in our downtown core,
 on an empty parking lot, accomplishes our public policy goals for public health, climate mitigation, and affordability. Portland is in a declared housing crisis, but we did not get here overnight.
 Part of the solution is strengthening tenants' rights. Part of the solution is securing more funding for affordable housing. And part of the solution is making sure that we do not continue to chronically underbuild housing, especially in our best connected places, if we are serious about addressing this issue. As a city, we must choose to live out our values and prioritize housing our full community over the objections of a few individuals, probably on every project.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Alan Kessler. I'm here to support the project. This is an extraordinary waste of time. It's an extraordinary waste of money. Council for Appellant is very good at what she does. She's not cheap. The architects here are very good at what they do. They're not cheap.
 and to bring them through four rounds of design review, four voluntary meetings with the neighborhood, and then for council to, you know, you're required to entertain and understand, but if you were to override the will of the design committee, that's...
 at an expense that any developer coming to the city has to expect will happen to them. So then the calculation on should we build more needed housing in Portland includes this expected cost of hiring attorneys, hiring architects to come to meeting after meeting after meeting, only to be told by council, no, go back to design review and negotiate this some more. This is a process.
 committed over and over again throughout the country in every neighborhood, every community. No neighbor wants more people near them. But this has led to the development patterns we have. This is why we have a need for the affirmatively affording fair housing laws and other things to sort of remediate the economic and ability segregation that's
 been part of the makeup of the way that American cities are built. I would note that each and every one of these units is likely to be Type B ADA, or Type B accessible. Up to present them will probably be required to be Type A accessible. So this is 175 accessible units that
 some neighbors who don't want the view out of their condo to change are coming to uh, to, you know, they hopefully, they hope to defeat it to make sure these units don't get built. Uh, we have an obligation under federal law, we have a moral obligation to have more housing for people with disabilities. We have an obligation, a moral obligation to create more housing, period, because that's the only way we're going to get through this affordability crisis.
 So I would ask counsel to not just deny the appeal,
 But I would ask you to send a message to neighborhood associations who would leverage ONI resources and their position within the coalition to try to stop needed housing and try to stop accessible housing in the future. I think you should deny this outright in extremely clear terms and make it clear that in the future, neighborhoods can't abuse this process to stop our city from developing the buildings that it needs.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Patricia Gardner. I was fortunate to live in the Pearl District since 1993 and just recently moved out. And I have to say I'm kind of a little surprised to be here because I haven't even finished unpacking. So, but that said, I need to clarify some history and legacy. A lot of the appellants talked about precedent, and I've got some bad news for them.
 the precedent they're talking about was planned. This building is exactly what was planned. It is what is in code. And the reason I can say that is I was the planning chair who went through the North Pearl plan. And I sat there and I advocated for this.
 model was not San Francisco, which sprawls forever. Our model was not Chicago, which sprawls forever. Our model was Vancouver, bluntly. And this was the place where the River District, via the Pearl District, was going to reach out and grab the river. And the reason the setback is 25 feet is because we wanted buildings there, and we wanted urban buildings there. And that's what the code says, because that's what we planned on doing. And that was passed in the mid
 mid-2000s and the design design guidelines are updated as part of that process and so what you see in front of you is exactly what the plan was the pearl was
 Pearl was not supposed to stop at the Fields Park. There was supposed to be a bridge that blocked your view of everything in the Fields Park that brought you to the river. This is in the Peter Walker master plan. This is in every plan that's been done in the Pearl. You were supposed to go to the river and look at the river. You weren't supposed to stop in the Fields Park. You were supposed to go to the river. And you were supposed to go to restaurants. And it wasn't supposed to be privatized.
 It was supposed to be a place that all Portlanders could use. And so, yeah, they're 100% correct. You are creating precedent, and you are creating the precedent that was planned. And if you don't do this, you're going to get a lot of people going, well, I don't want two-story buildings, or I don't want three-story buildings, and so why don't we make it a park? And I'm sure, you know, Commissioner Fritz would have a problem when people are coming to ask for park money for, you know, what we want. And so...
 I think that you're right. It's a turning point. Do you support the plans and the zoning codes that have been done over the past 25 years? Because this is what you got because this is where it was headed to the whole time. Thank you. Patty, can I ask you a question? Because you've waited a long time and you haven't been able to unpack. So thank you for your letter. Let's concede everything you say in your letter.
 Just speaking for this member of this body, which by law has to review a decision when it's brought to us, if I agree with everything in your letter, I think you and I would still agree that it is our function as a council to make sure the public is getting a meaningful greenway and that it is accessible. So that's something that I think you would all agree you'd want us to make sure that,
 We'd want to generally make sure it's a building that's well designed, although I don't set myself up as the arbiter of that generally. And this council has been extremely flexible on design issues. We've actually gone against the design commission a couple times just to incentivize use of new and innovative materials. I think that you would want us, as the mayor just did, to probe the question about could this project be greener?
 Now, we may or may not have the legal right to push it through this proceeding, but the fact that this is not a lead, you know, gold or not lead anything is of some concern because our climate action standards amend it. We've tightened up our code requirements for eco-roofs accordingly.
 I think you'd want us to be looking at the question of who's being served by the building. I generally subscribe to the idea that more product over time is going to be good because there will be inevitably market corrections, and we've also got to have a variety of housing. I am concerned that 95 percent or more of the housing we're building is luxury housing that is out of sync with the ability of the people that both of you have spoken about and that might even be covered by federal law and fair housing can afford.
 So I'm a little chagrined that there's been this huge rush to put permits in to get around IZ. That's a huge missed opportunity.
 And there was no way around it. We couldn't make it retroactive. But the 15,000 to 20,000 units will not be affordable under our new law because of it. So I just want to say, in respect, I think Patty Gardner has come before us many times. She has lots of important things to say. But even if I agree with everything in your letter, I still think we have a role to play in making sure it's good design,
 it's as green as possible, that the public amenities are truly public and accessible, and to push a little bit on affordability. Because this, to my knowledge, is not an affordable development. It's not required to be, but I think it is our role to flag that issue from time to time. So a couple thoughts. One, I would ask the developer, could they meet LEED standard? One thing that you should know about LEED is it's wicked expensive.
 Or an alternative. I know there's other... It's expensive. And so the fact that they have a green roof, the fact that they have bicycle parking, I bet you if they did the math, went through the little check sheet that LEED had, I wouldn't be surprised if this building actually meets it. And so that's one question I would ask the developer because...
 When you're doing a development, it's expensive, and that $200,000, that's not a small sum, and that's what it basically costs. So that's one thing I would say. The other thing I would say is,
 is one interesting side effect. So I had to live in an apartment building. I'm going to tell you a short story. I had to live in an apartment for the last three years. And what I found is that because of all the housing that's coming on board, there are a lot... People aren't raising their rents, they're lowering their rents. There are... People are giving months and months of
 rent away. The one bonus that I don't know if you're aware of is by all the housing coming online I think you're going to find rents fall.
 And so it may not meet low income, but it could potentially meet workforce. And that is something that we are also woefully under. We don't have enough workforce housing, and we really don't have enough workforce housing in the downtown core. And I think if you were to do a survey of the apartments in the Pearl, I think it would be very interesting to see where their rents have gone over the last year.
 So that's just something to keep in mind from a context point of view. Yeah, and Patty, thank you for the clarification on LEED standards since I opened that can of worms. You are correct. For me, it's really about the outcomes, not so much the nice medallion, although it is pretty. It really is about the outcomes, and as Commissioner Fish correctly pointed out, we have aggressive climate action standards for this city, and that means everybody needs to do their part.
 and we have an opportunity here to help go at least a portion of the way towards our goals. So it really is about outcomes, and thank you for reminding us on that. Great. Thank you. And was there some – oh, hello, Sue. How are you? Hello. Good. Good. Is there anybody else signed up? We have two more, please. Okay. Nielsen, Abil, and Kurt Schultz. Very good. Thank you. I mean, after eight hours of counsel, Carla gets a break. She abandoned us.
 You want me to go first? Yes, sir. Why don't you go ahead and start? Yeah, I'm Kurt Schultz. I'm the president of Serra Architects, and our firm values sustainability and good urban planning. And we've been in business in Portland for nearly 50 years now. I am here in support of this project because I think it does embody those values that I just discussed. But I'm also here to support the design commission and the zoning code as it is written.
 I go before the design commission and the design review body quite often and the staff and the design commission takes the guidelines and the rules and the zoning code and the standards very, very seriously, even though they're not paid. They really look at these very closely. And I had the pleasure to actually be able to sit through some of these design commissions on this project. I have no involvement in this project. I was there for other hearings. But I saw how diligently they really look
 looked at this project to make sure it fit with the rules and fit with the standards. And as Patty said, these standards have been in place for over 20, 25 years. This just happens to be the first time this has happened on the north side of NATO. But I've actually looked at it myself, and I believe it does follow the rules, the standards, and the guidelines of this area. And I think what's important to also think about is,
 the way that the guidelines are changing with the new 2035 plan. With the new 2035 plan, Central City plan, a lot of the things we're discussing today are going away. The height is gonna be increased from 175 to 250 feet.
 and the 45 degree angled setback on the greenway is going away, and actually some of the width and bulk guidelines are going away. So essentially the rules that you guys are adopting and the Planning Commission is adopting is actually increasing the amount of density you can do on these sites, not decreasing it. And developers and the community, they're very interested in this and counting on this.
 When you talk about a precedent, if you approve the appellants here, what that's doing is it's going to really change how people are looking at all these properties. And there's a lot of developers looking at developing those properties with significant portions of IH now. They're one of the few areas I know where I've been talking to developers who are very interested in building IH units along that waterfront. Here, here. Here, here. Here, here.
 in conjunction with larger towers and IH product. So if you agree to this appeal, that's gonna throw all the rules that we're playing with now out the window. We're not gonna, developers are not gonna even know what the rules are anymore.
 And so essentially you will not only lose housing, you are going to be losing probably some significant chunks of IH units that I believe are actually going to be happening in this portion of the district. So I would urge you to uphold the good work of the Design Commission and follow the rules that have been adopted. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir.
 My name is Nelson Abil. I am a 26-year resident in the Pearl District. I'm a co-author, co-founder of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association and a co-author of the bylaws of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association. I'm here today to oppose the appeal basically on the way that it was brought to the city.
 One of the key elements of the bylaws of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association when we founded it in 1992 was that we gave the planning committee executive power. And the reason for this was we created a committee that has been for 25 years run by professionals.
 and architects, urban planners, geographers, retired New York real estate consultants. And there were requirements to be on that committee if you wanted to get on of...
 sitting in on meetings, taking a seminar, learning something about urban planning. And over the years, the planning committee of the Pearl District has tweaked plans, dealt with developers, done all kinds of things, and worked with the design commission and the planning commission. And this appeal overrode...
 a vote on this project by the Planning Committee. And I am here because I am concerned about the future of the Neighborhood Association and its Planning Committee to engage with architects and developers. And when the architect for this project said he met with the PDNA, he was meeting with the Planning Committee. He was not meeting with the Pearl Board,
 And the Pearl Board takes anybody who wants to sign up for it and get elected to it. And they are overriding a professional committee that works with design and planning. And so, therefore, I think it's a very poor precedent for a neighborhood association that for 25 years has dealt with the design overlay of our community.
 and has built what we now see to be the most successful urban renewal district in the country. Thank you. Thanks, gentlemen. Are there any more opponents of the appeal? Very good. So the appellant, if they so choose, have five minutes for rebuttal. Do we still have Commissioner Saltzman on the line? Yes. Okay, good. Just checking. I heard a click, Dan, and I was just worried we might have lost you there.
 We need a hologram. Jeff Kleinman, attorney for Pearl District Neighborhood Association. Thanks for the opportunity to rebut. I want to be clear on a few things. And first of all,
 Dealing with this case and trying to work up the appeal, I wound up having to deal with my own confusion relating to how you tie in the FAR bonuses to the modifications, et cetera. And I want to clarify that because I think I have figured it out. To the extent that there is a qualification for bonuses and the mayor made reference to that.
 you still are limited as the developer to the maximum height and all the other requirements unless you get modifications. Okay, so the maximum height here without modifications, whether you get two, 10 or a million bonuses is 100 feet. Okay, this proposal is continuously described as 175 feet, actually it's 185 feet.
 with the parapet for the mechanicals. So it's an 18 and a half story building right on the river. To be approved for modifications, you have to comply
 any modifications with 33.825.040 A and B, both. And these require that the resulting development will better meet the applicable design guidelines. And we've given you a zillion reasons why they do not.
 and B, on balance the proposal will be consistent with the purpose of the standard for which a modification is requested. And the purpose of the height and other standards is to protect the neighborhood from overbuilding, especially on that side of the barrier formed by Front Avenue and the railroad.
 and to protect the Greenway and such factors. Not all the witnesses were lawyers, thank goodness for all of us, but, and I don't mean this defensively, Mayor, but most of the testimony went to the criteria that we have identified in our written materials, even though folks didn't identify the criteria. And I would certainly refer the members of the Council
 to the proposed findings that we have drafted and look in particular on page seven, this is very lengthy, at the criteria of the North Pearl subarea height opportunity area and the ones we've then highlighted in our discussion as not being met. Facilitate visual and physical access to and along the riverfront for all members of the public.
 Create expanded opportunities for views of the river as viewed from Nato Parkway and Front Avenue. It is not happening. It is the opposite that is proposed here. Ensure that bonus height granted to sites adjacent to the Fremont Bridge does not significantly affect views, et cetera. It certainly does. And this property...
 is in the same ownership as the property next to it, which is to be developed next, directly adjacent to the bridge. Under Oregon law, we treat them as both adjacent to the bridge, they're in common ownership. So. Can I ask you a question, sir? Sure. This comes up in a number of our land use proceedings where there's a potential worse outcome from the applicant's point of view.
 if the council grants the relief and this development comes back under a different set of rules. So what is your understanding of what would be allowed under the current proposals under consideration by the council for Central City 2035? Okay.
 I'm not sure I understand the two components of the question. You mean vis-a-vis what will change in 2035? Yeah, under Central City 2035, where we are looking to upzone throughout the city. What is your understanding for this parcel of what would happen if, let's say, we had granted the appeal?
 and the developer came back after Central City 2035 had been adopted, what would be as of right under the current proposal that Council is considering? I am not absolutely certain as to most elements, but one element would be a 50-foot greenway setback. So a 50-foot greenway setback. Instead of what there is proposed here. But it is quite likely that the height would go up.
 if that is a correct understanding of what's allowed. But in the meantime, we've got the laws that we have got, and these folks are not in compliance. I would add that the applicant's attorney stated that the additional height above 100 feet is a modification. And these modifications in no way better comply with the criteria.
 The applicant in an email which I have seen threatened the board of the neighborhood association saying if you go ahead and appeal, we can just go ahead and build this 10 story building that looks like this. So why not go ahead and apply for something that's allowed and subject it to design review? The association is prepared to live with that.
 And by the same token, going back to your question, Commissioner, if there's a reapplication, there's no need to comply with inclusionary zoning requirements for affordable housing. If the height is higher and that's the law, that's going to be the law. So right now we're dealing with the law as it is, and we'll take our chances with changes which take effect later.
 Even though, I mean, let's be clear, and I don't know the answer to this because I'm not, I can't have, I don't have perfect recall of what's under consideration for Central City 2035, but a different application may result in something that, from the point of view of your client, is even worse as a right. That is hypothetically correct. It could be. It might be more than hypothetically. So, I mean, that's something to consider. I mean, it reminds me, Mayor, of the conversation we had recently where,
 You gently pointed out to some neighbors in southwest Portland that it isn't a question of whether there's going to be development. There will. There is a question of whether it will be someone from the community working with the neighbors or whether it's an out-of-town developer who comes in and operates in a different context. And I just want to be mindful of the fact that you might, from your point of view, win.
 but lose the war if under 2035 a building as of right is even, from your point of view, less contextual, less beneficial, has fewer public benefits? I think that is possible. What I would also say, because I am not the directly affected person, I'm the lawyer, that my clients are sophisticated.
 and I would imagine have taken this into account. So, and they are also not opposed to rather intense development of the site so long as it is compliant. And this is simply not, and if you look at the precedents that they have argued,
 Waterfront Pearl as a basis for a modification and the Bridgetown Lofts as the basis for another. Those are terrifically coherent in context projects and this is not. And this is just a behemoth and a monolith by comparison.
 So, Commissioner, I hope I'm not being rude and I'm not blowing off in any way the argument that you've presented, but I really do believe that the Board of the Neighborhood Association in this neighborhood has taken that into account or they would not have gotten so heavily engaged.
 Sir, after 10 years of doing this job, it would take a lot more than that for me to accuse you of being rude. It would probably have to be in the death threat category, which I've had some experience with, for that to even get in the zone of rudeness. I'm still an active member of the bar, so no. I appreciate your sensitivity. I don't plan on retiring either, so it's probably not going to happen.
 Anyway, what will happen if, you know, in the subsequent applications that are filed under the current zoning in effect and the current criteria, once this sets the precedent, is the building of a wall, not on the Mexican border, but on the Willamette here.
 That this will completely blow out the existing context of the riverfront in that area and the notion of stepping down to the Willamette.
 In terms of the process, well, let me make a request before my time ticks out. The applicant's attorney has requested an open record period, I believe a couple of days, to supply some additional materials, and we have a right to respond to what is submitted. So I, in turn, would ask for the record to be held open by at least an equal number of weekdays.
 so that we can follow the response that you process and statutes entitle us to. Very well, and we will take that under consideration. Thank you. Any further questions? Thank you. Commissioner Saltzman, any questions? No questions. Very good. Commissioner Udaly, you wanted to see staff again, correct? Yes. Thank you, Chairman. Thank you. Ben Nelson, please come back. Oh.
 I have several questions for you, but I want to start by asking if there's any way that you could elaborate on the dissenting opinion of the chair, Julie Livingston, because all we have are these specific points.
 areas of concern, but no real explanation or context for those concerns? So I think this gets at Commissioner Fish's question from earlier. There is a small written section in the final findings in the conclusion section. Yeah. That represents her dissenting opinion. Okay. That's the extent of it. It's really touching on just a couple points, as I recall. Okay. All right. So...
 I just need to get clarity on some of the modification requests. Sure. Why are we allowing extra height to accommodate mechanical equipment? Why aren't we requiring the developer to include that within the 175 feet? That's a good question. This is a modification that actually comes up quite a bit, especially in the central city area.
 The modification for the mechanical screen and the mechanical equipment falls under the base zone standard, the EX zone. So that's in Chapter 33.140 of the zoning code, which is a different standard than what allows the building to be built up to 175 feet. The building can't go any higher than that based on code in Chapter 33.510.
 but the base zone allows for exceptions to the height standard for certain amounts of mechanical equipment, stairwells, elevator overruns, things like that. And that's what category this mechanical screen falls into.
 So the commission often hears modification requests for this and often grants them if the mechanical screen or mechanical equipment, in this case, are found to be coherently integrated into the overall building design. Okay, thank you. I'm pretty impressed that you have all those I deal with it a lot. numbers in your price. Okay, similarly, why are we allowing the length of the facades to exceed
 What is it? It's... 200 feet. Well, no, no. Are you talking about the tower? What I'm looking at is facades above 100 feet to extend, to exceed 120 feet in length. And I think I heard that those codes will be changing. I'm not terribly familiar with the future code, but under current code, floor plates and facade lengths above 100 feet in height are limited.
 However, the same standard allows the option for a modification to be considered to extend building lengths from 120 feet up to 150 feet. So they can't go beyond 150. In this case, I believe one is around 125, 128, and another is 140-something. Okay. Next.
 The shadow standard? Yes. Why are we giving an exception to that? The commission found that since the standard would essentially be met at 1 p.m. as opposed to noon, that they found that was basically meeting the purpose of the standard and for all the other reasons. Okay. I think you may have said that several hours ago. I did, but that was a long time ago. Yeah, I apologize. The setback issue...
 I'm not as concerned with as I was originally, because I understand that's another thing that's going to go away. But can you give the rationale on that? And that not pertaining to the...
 easement but pertaining to the height over 35 feet in that little section of the building that is encroaching in that area. I think that rests on a few reasons. And actually, if I could get my presentation back up, it might be easier to visually describe it. And at the same time, you could address item 5E,
 which is another exception to building dimension. Just wanting to understand the rationale behind all these modifications. So those do fall under the same standard. So for the modification to allow the building to extend into this angled setback, basically rested on...
 It says here, Guidelines A2, enhance Portland themes, A5, enhance and embellish and identify areas, and A5-1-1, reinforce the identity of the Pearl District. And that's basically talking about providing better views of the Fremont Bridge. Again, this kind of goes back to the main argument that is being made on both sides.
 allowing massing floor area to be placed into the tower component of the building as opposed to the lower story areas, which would bring it closer to the river or could impact views from the perspective of the Fields Park towards the Fremont Bridge. So it was for a combination of reasons that the commission found that this was acceptable.
 The other reason is that it allows planted rooftop area on the lower roofs to be closer to the greenway. So that's, I think, a lesser reason. As for the 230-foot, 9 inches building length, as opposed to the required 200 feet, again, the commission was considering...
 guidelines that talk about linking the river to the community, emphasizing Portland themes, the identity of the waterfront, and making the plaza and park and open space successful. They're going from memory of what the more detailed findings say. This modification was basically based on having a narrower building in the direction parallel to the river, so in that direction along
 Looking along Northwest NATO Parkway, the building is only about 180 feet in width, and the 200-foot dimension applies in that direction as well.
 So it was a trade-off in the Commission's mind to allow a longer building perpendicular, which opens up a wider space towards the river. Okay, and then my last question pertaining to the modifications might be a parks issue, but I am curious, and again you may have addressed this many hours ago, about the kind of lowering of the landscaping requirements and particular trees. Why are we doing that?
 Are you speaking specifically to modification, I think it was... Six and seven. Seven. Oh, six wasn't even addressed in the appeal, so I didn't talk about it at all. Okay, and seven. I can if you want. That's all right. Seven was limited to a very tiny area adjacent to the driveway, between the driveway and the south property line.
 The commission felt that the requested modification was sufficient here. There was no need to pull the driveway back an extra three feet to get a few trees here when another building could conceivably come in next year or next month.
 Building up to the property line there as well on the adjacent parcel So it's a more urban condition the way it is and then my last question is whether or not you can give us any clarity on this issue of Calculation of buildable. Yes, I actually have a slide prepared for that. I didn't show you due to time constraints I think it was this one. Of course. I don't have my notes. Oh
 But this diagram, the areas shaded in red are areas that the appellant have contended don't apply towards the site area or towards calculating allowable development area. Not shaded is the Willamette River, which they also added today. It was not in the original appeal documents. I won't address the river portion because I don't particularly have expertise in that area.
 We have a separate land use case underway to specifically divide this site off from the rest of the larger site, and that hasn't concluded yet, but we're using that site definition as the basis for the land use hearing today. For the Greenway setback that's shown in the red color there, and also for the plaza setback,
 Those are not right-of-way dedications that have been asserted by several people today. The Greenway setback is specifically an easement, and the public plaza, I don't even recall if that's an easement or not. The code merely says it must be accessible to the public, and with signs posted telling them such. So they remain part of the site, which means they remain potentially developable.
 The building is not precluded from going in either of those areas, so it is allowed to be counted towards development area. And that's a very common thing when there are public spaces proposed. Thank you. Sure. Any further questions? Any further questions? Commissioner Saltzman, any questions of staff? No. No.
 Very good. Thank you very much. So at this point I will go back to legal counsel and ask if you could summarize our options at this particular point, noting that we had a request from both parties to be able to review additional documents if documents are submitted.
 On the part of the developer, they wanted at least a couple of days. And then the appellant wanted a couple of days to be able to review those documents should the council choose to keep the record open. So whether or not you keep the record open for additional evidence is entirely at council's discretion. If you are going to do so, I would suggest that you have a certain number of days. It is traditionally seven days. If the parties are fine with two or three,
 It's really up to you. And then there would be an – so all parties would – the record would be open to all parties for a certain number of days. Then there would be a second period of time that would be essentially rebuttal time. I would probably have it be about the same amount of time during which people would not submit evidence but could respond to the evidence before. It is –
 It's often traditional to have the applicant have the final seven days based on some statutory language. We have in the past interpreted it not to apply. So that's really, I would say, if the applicants, if they make a big deal of it, then maybe they didn't want the last word.
 We can decide to allow them so we don't have an appeal issue on that. So in that case, just so I understand, that would be keeping the written record open, is that correct? Or would that also create an opportunity for a future hearing? So if we're talking about keeping the record open, that's one option. Another option is to simply continue the hearing, let people come in and testify in evidence again.
 You could do that. You could also decide you don't want any more evidence in the record at all. You could close the record at this point and make a tentative decision, deliberate and make a tentative decision. Those are the options on the table. And just one moment, Commissioner Fish. So option number two, if we went that route, the testimony would be solely on new evidence provided since this hearing, is that correct?
 You could limit it in that way. Okay. It would be more typical to decide either to continue it and have all the new issues dealt with there or have the record held open. Very good. Commissioner Fish. So, Mayor, I just want to acknowledge that we've been at it since about 10 o'clock this morning, and this has been a long and very thoughtful and informative hearing.
 The applicant has proposed to put in a submission on this legal question of how you calculate the footprint for the bonus. And we would have to then give some additional time to the appellant to respond to that.
 I saw the applicant shaking her head, the lawyer, about needing an additional sir reply to that. So I think we could probably get, if this was the council's choice, I think we could get agreement on a seven-week period for submission, a seven-week response. And I'll just speak for myself.
 There's a couple of issues that I'd like to review in the record before I make my decision. I think I know where I'm heading on this one, but I would benefit from a little more time. And frankly, given that we've been going straight all day, I just think my brain would benefit from a little refresh.
 And I know we don't often do this, but one proposal that I would ask us to consider, to see if it's acceptable to the council, is that we keep the record open for 14 days, as has been suggested by council, close the record, and then come back solely for the purpose of deliberating. So no more testimony. We would just come back for the purpose of deliberating on a time certain.
 And we are not, according to our attorney, we're not under a strict deadline in terms of the clock. So we would have the opportunity set a time that works for us and the parties without that clock, you know, the hundred and whatever day clock staring us in the face. Okay. So your proposal, if I could restate it so I have clarity, is the applicant would have
 the time to submit. Seven days. Seven days in which to submit their testimony. The appellant would have seven days to review that and then we would come back at a time certain sometime in 14-ish days. Or more. Or more. On a time certain to deliberate. To deliberate. The record would close at that point. We'd come back solely for the testimony. And so we would take no additional public testimony at that time. It would simply be the appellant
 or the applicant and the appellate. Is that correct? That would be fine. I will make one suggestion, though. Certainly. It is clear there's an issue oversight area. I'm not sure why you wouldn't have that first record period be available to both parties to submit any evidence they wish to during that seven days, and then the second seven days is for either party to respond to that evidence. So it's mutual responsibility.
 Sounds good. So either party can submit evidence within the first seven days, and either party can respond to that evidence in the second seven days. Is that what you're suggesting? Yes, and I'd be interested in knowing whether either of the attorneys have any objection to that. Jeff, find one you don't object. I'll listen to what I'll say. We don't object, but we don't really think that's okay. So if you wanted a shorter period, that would be fine with us. Well, we're going to have, I think, a challenge finding a time certain, but we're not under the clock.
 How do we look as far as time certain? What date are we looking at? Let's assume 14 days out. 14 days. Okay. March 7th. The morning of March. How much time? An hour. An hour. Well, just truth in labeling. We put things down for 15 minutes and they go two hours. So just an hour, but probably we don't need a whole hour. Thursday, March 8th at 2 is available, but Commissioner Saltzman is absent.
 Do we have Commissioner Fritz also? She's back. She's back. When would we have all four who have been participating so far? For an hour. Or half an hour. We could squeeze you on the morning of the 7th at, let's say, 10, 10.15. And we have all the commissioners there? Yes. What if we go one more week, Carla? What do we get? Do we get any more? It'd be either 4 o'clock or 10.30. Okay.
 On the 14th. So we're going to get, within 14 days, materials. We're going to want to review them. So with that regard to time limit, what's the next time that seems to work for everybody? The very next one will be the 7th, March 7th, in the morning. That's the 10-15 slot? Right. Does that work for legal counsel on both sides? Yes.
 So I would suggest then that the materials be due at the 6th, because if they're due, say, 5 p.m. the 7th, that doesn't help you very much. No, I would agree. So the...
 So the first timeline then would be when? The submittal of documents needs to be by what date? Let's have it due the 28th by 5 p.m., submitted to the council clerk, and then any rebuttal to that would be due March 6th at 5 p.m., also to the council clerk. Okay, so in technical language then, we are continuing the hearing until –
 March 7th, time certain 10.15 a.m. The record is open on both sides until February 28th at 5 p.m. The record will close at 5 p.m. on March 6th, correct? Yes, the record for new evidence closes on the 28th. Rebuttal testimony allowed until March 6th.
 And the rebuttal testimony is pertaining to new evidence submitted by the 28th. And, Mayor, we often at this moment encourage parties, particularly in that second submission, to be guided by the virtue of brevity. And I'd also add that given that the hearing is on the 7th at 1030, to the extent the parties can get their materials in well before the 6th, that would probably be helpful to counsel. And I just want to correct that. It is March 7th at 1015, is it not? Yes.
 I'm certain it's March 7th at 10. March 7th. Okay, so we're all clear. The key dates here are February 28th at 5 p.m., March 6th at 5 p.m., and then the hearing itself is March 7th at 10.15 a.m. Both sides got that, and we will notice this. Very good. We are continued. Without further ado, we are adjourned. Thank you, everybody.