The Village of Hope, we're not going to stay here for the testimony. The of Hope! Of Hope! Of Hope! Village of Hope, stay! Alright, it is 9.30. Good morning everybody. It's the morning session of the February 28th, 2018 session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. Here. Thank you.
 Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Wheeler. Here. I'd like to now introduce City Attorney Robert Taylor to kick off what will be a new responsibility for the City Attorney. And I couldn't be happier. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. Thank you.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. Carl, it's my understanding that...
 Communications items number 178 and 79 would like to come up together, and 79 would like to read first, which is fine. If you could call the first two communications. 179, request of Jack Pollock to address council regarding merge 810.10 and the ACLU 9 model plan to make Portland sanctuary status codified and enforceable and not merely symbolic.
 and 178 request of Joanne Bulkley to address counsel regarding Portland officials should not engage in federal immigration activities. Good morning. Good morning. Just name for the record. We don't need your address. Good morning. My name is Jack Pollack. I belong to one of the many citizens groups around town working to strengthen Portland's sanctuary city status.
 We come here today to express our appreciation to the council, the mayor's office, and the chief of police for all the work you've done so far to improve our sanctuary city policies, specifically Police Directive 81010, currently titled Immigration Enforcement and Diplomatic Immunity. The changes you have made put Portland on track to becoming a model of fairly applied law enforcement and an exemplar for sanctuary cities everywhere.
 The directive, as previously written, gave Portland police discretion to cooperate with and facilitate the work of immigration and customs enforcement agencies within the Department of Homeland Security. Those agencies under the Trump regime have committed a list of abuses and civil rights violations too long to enumerate in the time allowed. All of this only served to complicate Portland police officers' jobs. It undermined public confidence and discouraged people from cooperating with them.
 Much of what needed correcting in 8.10.10 has now been addressed and rewritten in accordance with Oregon State Law and Resolution 37277. We thank you and your energetic staffs for your dedication to make Portland a sanctuary for dreamers and immigrants and a safer, more productive community. We thank you for setting an example of what city officials and citizens can achieve by working together.
 There are areas of 810.10 that still need further revision, so we ask that you continue to work with the ACLU, COUSA, the Innovation Law Lab, and other community groups like ours to further improve the document. Finally, with the revisions to 810.10 must come the assurance of training and accountability. The Attorney General Sessions does not recognize sanctuary cities and is ironically contemptuous of our state's rights.
 This means as long as there are loopholes that allow cooperation between Portland Police and ICE, CBP, and DHS, sanctuary status remains a mere symbolic gesture, and we cannot protect people who live and work here with symbolic gestures.
 We can take inspiration from one symbolic gesture illustrated by Portlandia, our mighty colossus who kneels to extend a compassionate hand down from on high so she can lift people up, not throw them out. It's worth noting that her other hand holds a trident behind her, pointed, I think, towards Washington, D.C., to guard against its attacks on our sovereignty. Portland faces many challenges, but...
 But I believe 810.10 shows that we can work together to meet those challenges and make life better for everyone living here. Thank you all for listening. Thank you, Jack. I appreciate it. And I just want to clarify for my colleagues, we did, you know, PPB recently has enacted a revision of the Directive 810.10, and that specifically addresses, as you know, immigration enforcement.
 For the record, the directive affirmatively states that Portland Police Bureau officers and staff are not permitted to assist ICE with federal immigration enforcement.
 Specifically, Portland Police Bureau officers are not able to arrest a person for the sole reason that they are undocumented. They are not allowed to assist with the execution of administrative removal warrants or honor or comply with federal immigration detainer requests.
 And just for the record, we did work with the ACLU and many others in shaping 81010. We actually directly used seven or utilized seven of nine of their model rules that they were in. There was some disagreement.
 in terms of the degree, but we believe we either specifically took them into account, included them in a directive, or made the argument that they are already included in current directive or contained in another policy. But I want to assure you that we did, in fact, take a hard look at those model rules, and we believe we've encompassed.
 virtually all of them in our directive, and we'll continue to work with people like the ACLU and others as we continue to shape these policies. Mayor Wheeler. Commissioner Fish. Because we get periodic communication from the good people that are here today on the ACLU's list of nine demands that we all have, and this question about then is how are they incorporated into 810,
 Point 10. As the commissioner in charge, could we request that someone in the Bureau just give us a roadmap, maybe a redline version, because we have the model provisions from the ACLU. It would be helpful to see how they were incorporated, and then that will in turn help us respond to inquiries we get from the public.
 Commissioner Fish, I can get that to your office probably before this meeting adjourns. We have that. We've shared it with the ACLU and others, and I'd be delighted to share it with all of my colleagues as well. Thank you very much. If you wouldn't mind, Michelle, just make sure that that gets done. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Well, I'll go forward with this, although you've addressed some of the issues. Hi, my name is Joanna Bulkley, and I'm here to talk with you today about the continuing work to codify Resolution 37277, which declared the city of Portland a welcoming city, a sanctuary city, and an inclusive city for all.
 As part of the resolution, the Portland Police Bureau was instructed to revise Police Directive 81010 to ensure that the Portland police do not play any role in enforcing federal immigration laws. Thank you.
 As you clearly know, the City recently released a revised version of 8.10.10, and it is a vast improvement on the previous version. I want to echo the thanks of the previous speaker for all the hard work of the staffs of the Mayor's Office, the Commissioners and their staffs, and the hard work of the Chief Outlaw and her office in developing this new version.
 As Jack noted, there are actually still important areas of improvement to ensure that 8.10.10 fully aligns with Resolution 37277 and Oregon state law. And we will be back in August when it's going to be reopened to make what we hope are those additional and final improvements. Now that the revised directive is in place, I have to ask, what's next?
 It is one thing to create directives and policies, and quite another to move from the theory that they represent to the reality of everyday life. In order to ensure that the revised 81010 actually has the beneficial effect that we're all looking for, I have two requests today. First, that careful attention be paid to the dissemination of 81010 through well-thought-out trainings.
 As someone who works for a large corporation, I have direct experience of the gap between policies enacted by leadership and the understanding and implementation of those policies by the people actually doing the work. Although it's easy to think that training is simply the process of providing the directive and telling officers to follow it, officers are human beings with many demands on their time and attention. Some officers may also have differing views about enforcing immigration law.
 To have effective training, it is crucial that the underlying purpose of the directive be presented to the officers in the training. For example, the importance of building trust between the police and the community is paramount. The fact that the public must feel comfortable reporting crimes to the police and that everyone needs to feel comfortable being a witness if that's needed, et cetera.
 In addition, translating the directive into plain language and including the use of real-world examples in training is a must. It is only when information is salient and applicable to our lives that training is effective. Second, as a research scientist, I know that it is only through data collection and assessment of outcomes that we can understand how successful or not successful 81010 is when in the field.
 So I request that the Portland Police Bureau develop and implement a plan for reporting on outcomes to the police bureau leadership, the city government, and the community. Thank you for your time. Excellent testimony, and I will second what you just said about training being critical to implementing and enforcing policy. No dispute there, and I agree with you 100%.
 And I'm going to even broaden that a little bit. We've actually been doing training and what-if exercises for all city employees who come into contact with people who are immigrants so that they understand as well what the policies are. The data collection one is really interesting to me. And we have lots of discussions around data collection, what data should be collected,
 and how should it be collected that preserves people's trust both in the police bureau and their rights to their own information. I would love it if you could think on that specific set of questions a little bit more and perhaps give us some advice as we take a look at 81010. I'd be very interested in that feedback from you. Yeah, I'd be happy to do that. Awesome. Thank you. I appreciate that very much. Thanks both of you. Thanks, Jack. Next up, let's see.
 I think 180 and 181 are also together. Is that correct? I'll read them both. I don't know if they're here. I believe they are. Okay. 180, request of Chris Harris to address council regarding Bureau of Transportation Greenways diverter to be installed at 50th and Southeast Lincoln Street. And 181, request of Bernie Constantine to address council regarding Bureau of Transportation Greenways diverter to be installed at 50th and Southeast Lincoln Street.
 Bernie and Chris here today. Thanks for coming in. Next item, please. 182, request of Joe Walsh to address counsel regarding communications. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent individuals for justice. There's still a line from Shakespeare, hell is empty and all the devils are here.
 We, many of the people of Portland, now come before you to indict your actions as follows. You have and continue to steal from the poor and give to the rich. You call for donations of bedrolls and blankets and socks, and yet your police and your subcontractors steal these and other items from the homeless during your audit sweeps.
 Warming stations are totally inadequate to sustain life. Not enough of them and not open until humans are freezing to death. 25 degrees is the temperature that you will open these warming centers. The waste of tens of millions of dollars of taxpayer money year in, year out.
 With no sufficient reduction in homelessness or houselessness, this charge is a waste of government funds. When faced with decisions to open up a local government, you consistently refuse like you did with the police shooting report last week. Shame on our Republican mayor.
 Putting out signs that say sidewalks must be kept clear and there will be no sitting or resting. Shame on our Republican Council. Violation of the First Amendment. Holding BS sessions over and over. Lying about transparency. Shame on our Republican millionaire majority on this council. You have no transparency.
 You raided and you shut down a self-sufficient village with no consultations with the non-profit that helped to set it up. You are charged with hypocrisy of the worst kind, violation of the Geneva Accords and of humanity. And now this message comes to Commissioner Amanda Fritz from the Village of Hope and their allies.
 We are currently sitting in and occupying your office until you come to speak with us about our need for space to establish our self-managed houseless community. And as you receive, this is a reward to each and every one of you for 30 pieces of silver if you resign.
 We will take your resignations. You are a total disgrace to this city, and God help you when this city wakes up. And Mayor, one term. Thanks, Mr. Walsh. Do not thank me. Do not thank me. Excuse me. You need to go back to your seat, and you need to calm down, or you're going to be removed. You need to be polite and professional.
 Oh, I need to be polite and professional. Have any items of the consent agenda been pulled? You have ever and no comment, Joe. We've had no requests. Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. I'm sorry. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Bozo. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First, I'm certain I'm 183, please.
 Amend Public Improvements Code to further implement Portland in the Streets Program. Amend Transportation Fee Schedule. Repeal and amend certain administrative rules. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I'll turn it straight over to Rich Eisenhower. I've got to sit and rush a little bit. We need to go to hell. ADN, ADN, ADN. My oxygen level dropped. Let him rest for a minute. If Mr. Walsh will be quiet, let him rest for a minute, and then let's get him out.
 Please continue. All right. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Good morning, Mayor, City Commissioners. My name is Rich Eisenhower, along with Jody Yates and Christine Aldrin from the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Today we are here to present the new Portland Streets Program and ask for your vote today to adopt our new Portland Streets Administrative Rule, modifications to city code and our existing administrative rules, and updates to our fee schedule. These are the nuts and bolts and is the first step to implement the Portland Streets Program.
 As you might recall, back on October 25th, 2017, we brought you our Louisville Street Strategy. That strategy was adopted, which established a policy statement that prioritizes people. This statement provides direction for all staff by confirming PBOT's position that placemaking is an appropriate use of the public right-of-way and that PBOT prioritizes the use of space for people. The Louisville Street Strategy process generated over 40 action items.
 But the following four listed here are the main focus of our work. It's to enhance our customer experience, improve awareness and participation, increase partner capacity, and evaluate and report. The Louisville Streets Strategy allows us to develop our progressive new program, Portland in the Streets. The Portland Streets Program will encompass all programs for placemaking and community uses in the public right-of-way.
 The Portland Streets program will develop space for community gathering, promote healthy and active lifestyles, build community identity, activate underutilized space, and generate local business activity. Portland Streets is an umbrella program that includes many of our existing programs. But for this effort, we focused on the refinement of three existing programs and the creation of three new programs.
 We will continue to develop new program areas and refining all of our existing programs to bring them under this umbrella. Our goal is to create a framework that can apply to all program areas to provide a consistent and predictable process for both our staff and the public.
 The first existing program with refinements is our block party program. Block parties are small-scale parties held on residential streets, such as neighborhood potlucks and barbecues, that are held by and for the residents along that street. The second existing program area with refinements is our community event program. Community events are larger-scale events that intend to build a sense of community.
 These events bring people from the entire neighborhood or region and events support and encourage community gathering and local businesses. The third and final area existing program with refinements is our street painting program. Street paintings are large format works of art, designed and painted.
 on local service streets that build community, empower neighbors to shape their own public realm, create an artistic impression that's about people who live nearby, and break down any socialization. Can I ask you a question about this? Sure. Because I've always just been, I always really liked these, and I was always curious about it. Who actually comes up with the designs? And what is the role of the neighborhood in helping with that process? Sure.
 it's from them i mean we work with a non-profit group called city repair that brings together every time we're starting this time of year we come together in june for the what's called the building convergence to paint these so it's it's it's a group effort bringing all the neighborhoods together to create the design together and come together works with the neighborhoods with the neighbors the immediate neighbors so they decide what they want that's great yeah good i
 Thank you. I was always just curious. Very successful. I think we have about 60 of them. They always cheer me up, so I'm appreciative of seeing that. Thank you. A program that's been going since Commissioner Hales. That was the first time they started. Very good. Yeah, that's excellent. Thank you. We had the first one, I think it was 1998. Yeah. Yeah, so basically, yeah, breaking down any social isolations. They've been very successful. Thank you.
 Of the first new program areas is our pedestrian plazas. Pedestrian plazas are long-term community placemaking projects to create open space and underutilize streets, alleys, or roadways for the public use and to activate. The second new program area is street prototyping. Street prototyping projects are community-initiated that test new street or intersection design concepts.
 and we collect data and inform future design decisions. And the final program area is Spaces to Places. These projects turn gravel, dirt, or underdeveloped low-volume streets or alleyways into places where people want to gather and install amenities desirable to the community. And as mentioned earlier, we will continue to develop new programs and refining all of our existing programs to be part of Portland in the Streets.
 And as such, our program framework has been designed to be flexible so that even out-of-the-box ideas can be permitted in a timely and predictable way. So those are the program areas. I'm going to turn it over to Kristen that will talk more about our program goals, shift in permitting, outreach, and our fees. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'd like to start by sharing with you the Portland in the Streets program goals that were generated from our work, which include reduce barriers for community-led placemaking projects, encourage placemaking projects that reflect community needs and character, ensure citywide access to programs and equitable geographic distribution of projects, encourage experimentation and innovation, which is what brings life to our streets. Thank you.
 Our first emphasis is an internal shift in permitting. This includes streamlining internal procedures and coordination efforts with our bureau partners to improve our program management tools. Specifically, we are bringing our bureau partners together to utilize one citywide permitting software for review and tracking of all PBOT permit applications, also establishing more consistent requirements and application processing for Portland in the Street projects,
 We have rewritten city code and our administrative rules, which we bring to you today, which govern this work. To build capacity and increase participation in Portland in the Streets programs, we propose some fee changes. Under our policy...
 Community event program, we have created two new permit types. One is for ticketed events with a fee that varies based on the number of attendees. And the other, which was requested by our customers, is to allow existing sidewalk cafe permit holders to temporarily extend their outdoor seating during a community event permit with assessed fees based on the area of that extension. Okay.
 We're eliminating the fees for block parties and parking day programs, which are intended to reduce barriers and make permits more accessible. We're working on other fee changes, and after we complete some targeted outreach with our applicants and community partners, we will bring those to you with our overall bureau updates. Thank you.
 The other shift is making the, is an external shift, which is putting the applicant first. This means providing greater hands-on assistance to applicants through the permitting process across all program areas. Proactive outreach to let folks know about our programs. Early technical assistance such as project scoping to set projects up for success.
 and an online toolkit, community toolkit, that provides applicants resources to help with design inspiration, funding opportunities, and identify community partners. We will provide greater hands-on assistance with the applicant as seen in this new process diagram with a clear focus on streamlining. This is the framework that all of the program areas will follow and it puts the applicant first. It establishes a predictable process and ensures consistency.
 Some examples of this technical assistance include creating traffic control plans if needed and, if relevant, helping to obtain other permits and licensing that might be required by other bureaus. These are ways that we can ease the burden of some of our requirements for our applicants. The work on the community toolkit are the updates that the applicant will see and experience. This is the external-facing online community information for all Portland in the Street programs.
 We are updating our website with all program applications so that they are simpler and user-friendly. This includes one online application intake form, and PBOT has created a new position to whom will be responsible for initial intake of these projects. We are redesigning our webpages to include many resources to help applicants. They include real-life case studies with project inspiration and project costs,
 graphic guides for how to get permits easily, resource information on where to get placemaking materials, and financial assistance opportunities such as available grants, and a live map to show where Portland in the street projects are happening in the city. May I ask a question? Yes. And this will happen when? Okay.
 We're in the process currently. We're meeting with a consultant actually later today to help design the websites. We've already done some of the internal coordination work with the bureau partners and our applications. We've been working on them over this past year. So this will be an app, is that correct? Yes.
 It'll be a new website. It'll be a website. Yeah. And is there some way, and maybe this is an Office of Community Technology question, I'm really excited to see bureaus like yours using technology platforms to make it a lot easier for people in our community to be able to access services and find what they need. Is there some way to bring all of these together in one place?
 location. I think about, for example, the Portland report, the PDX reporter app and this app, and there's a couple of others, and I think Commissioner Udaly may be working on or has been working on something through ONI. Some of this was started with the ITAP project that has turned into the POPS, which is the online permitting process. Is that going to be one of the potential outcomes? It's still kind of...
 I guess I think it's undecided. We don't want to talk about POPs today, but at least it's on your radar. I'd love to see that at some point. Maybe I'll just put that out as a marker, because we're doing some really great technology and application work like this, and the next logical step is to try to figure out how to put it all in one easy location. Agreed. Okay, cool. Absolutely. And what's your timeline on the webpage? Okay.
 Our hope is hopefully within the next month, in April, to have it up and running. I mean, our event season is already starting now. Great. We've got a lot of the content. It's just sort of providing the branding and the framework, what it's going to look like. All right. Thanks. Appreciate it. Yeah. So the – let's see. Yeah. Yeah.
 So consistent with our program goals, last season PBOT's Block Party program launched a pilot project in 13 neighborhoods east of 82nd Avenue and in Cully with the goal of increasing program participation.
 These historically underrepresented neighborhoods within our city. And PBOT took action by making permits more accessible to these residents by removing permit fees, making available free barricades within the neighborhood, creating an online application, and translating materials into the five of the most common spoken languages in this area. The pilot project was a success, and we ended up issuing four times as many permits in this area than had prior. Thank you.
 We're excited to announce that we'll be expanding the successful campaign in 2018 with an additional 14 neighborhoods. We plan to continue our outreach by participating at various community events and continue to build and strengthen our relationships with the neighborhoods and directly connect with the residents on what Portland in the Streets programs mean to them while spreading our program message of building community.
 And that concludes our presentation today. We look for your support by updating city code, administrative rules, and the program fee changes. We thank you for this opportunity, and we're here to answer any questions you might have.
 Can I ask you, Daly? Thank you. I'm excited about a lot of the changes that are coming. Could you give me an example of what a cafe outdoor seating extension would look like? Sure. So when a community event permit is issued, if alcohol wants to be a
 served in the right of way and the event organizer who's taking out the permit doesn't want to have that. And there are businesses along the street that want to serve and be part of the event and want to go out into the street beyond the sidewalk designated area that their sidewalk cafe already permits them. This will allow them to serve beyond that point at a maximum as the city center line.
 as long as they're working in conjunction with the community event permit holder. And then maintaining a pedestrian... They're all through all street closures. We always maintain an ADA-compliant pedestrian throughway. Okay. Yeah. I find it personally challenging to navigate those spaces sometimes, so my question is really what we do around educating...
 business owners about ADA issues? On existing sidewalk cafes or? When there are special events, the kind of things that you're talking about. Yeah, part of our effort was to have good signage as to where pedestrians need to go. Because sometimes that's very, it's unclear. So that's one of the, when in those circumstances, because these are,
 These are probably 5% of our permits, but there is a need. The Mississippi Street Fair is a good example. A lot of that, a lot of bars and restaurants extend their sidewalk cafes or want to extend into that, but where do the pedestrians want to go that want to go through the street? So we are working with designing more clear and apparent pedestrian signs. Great. Thank you.
 What are some examples of ticketed events?
 We haven't had them yet. Oh, we haven't had them yet. Yeah, that's our new, that's one of our proposed new opportunities. So we are going to meet with a pilot group of our past permit holders to share with them our proposed fee structure and to get their feedback. Some of the regular event holders who, to date, have not been able to have events that sell tickets because...
 I think we discussed it because we had a cannabis businesses event that was associated with a park and in the adjacent right-of-way. And I forget where we ended up as to where the ticketed park could be. But that's an example of where, and especially if it's an event.
 21 and up event, you would want to have, whether it's sold or not, you have to have some kind of controls. So that's what you're talking about. Yeah, so it would be ticketed. The tickets would need to be available to anyone. It couldn't just be a select population. And as long as they require that and meet all of our other requirements for a community event permit, we would permit it. At a higher fee structure, as our...
 we present it to you in our documents submitted. And does that fee structure mirror Portland Parks? Because we also provide... It's a higher charge if you're going to be selling over 21s. Is it very similar? Actually, we...
 We actually worked with parks and kind of evaluated the fee structure in parks, and we are kind of mimicking, generally speaking, with parks. Well, I'll be interested to hear if you have any advice for us, because I really appreciate how you've looked into how can this work for the community. And so I will be asking my staff to talk with you in that particular area. I want to make sure that we... And I do see some clear opportunities. We have a lot of streets that are next to parks, and there's a clear opportunity to...
 partner with parks on those events. Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony, Carla? No one signed up. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Great presentation. Thanks, Commissioner Saltzman. Next item. Can't do that. Let's move to Commissioner Udaly or the folks for 191 here. Building Code, Board of Appeal.
 I'm sorry. It doesn't look like they are, but I think we have noise. Very good. I'll make a couple of administrative announcements as slowly as I can. Item number 193, could you read that, Carla? Yeah. I just said...
 Item 193, authorize a five-year price agreement with U.S. Bank Elevon for merchant services for a not-to-exceed amount of $25 million. Colleagues, I am withdrawing this to my office. It will come back on March 7th. So item 193 will not be discussed today. Please call item 192.
 appoint Ernest Harris and Destiny Wright to the Noise Review Board for terms to expire February 1, 2021. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Ernest Harris is a longtime civic and business leader in northeast Portland. He has an MBA from the University of Phoenix. He has been an asset to the Noise Control Office for many years. The Noise Control Officer has worked closely with Mr. Harris to explore better ways to connect the community with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement's permitting arm. He's the Vice President of the North Northeast Business Association, also known as, I'm just going to say NEBA. I'm not sure. NEBA.
 Neba. All right. It's a new one for me. He volunteers with Prosper Portland on their tenant selection committee for the Alberta Commons, and Ernest is interested in serving on the noise review board to offer a voice for those whose voices have not been solicited. Should we do this one at a time, or...?
 And our other board member is also here. She is just in the bathroom at the moment. Oh, okay. And that's Destiny? Yes. Okay. So Destiny Wright, who prefers to be called Desi. Desi.
 Desi Wright has been in the construction industry as a union member of the local pile drivers, Local 196 for several years now. She has experience on many large-scale projects such as the recent reconstruction of the Selwood Bridge. Desi has helped the Noise Board advocating for consideration of the safety of her fellow pile bucks and the potential impacts to their work environment.
 She's a dedicated member of her community in the Sullivan's Gulch neighborhood. Ms. Wright hopes to help the board keep a focus on the need for livability in our neighborhoods while recognizing the balance that must be made to complete large and medium-sized construction projects in our rapidly growing city. Today we have Officer Paul Van Orden with Noise Control and both appointees, Ernest Harris and hopefully momentarily Desi Wright.
 Here to answer any questions or concerns the council may have.
 Very good. Thank you, Members of Council. Paul Van Orden, the City's Noise Control Officer, I want to thank you for having the opportunity today to introduce two wonderful candidates for our two wonderful board members that we're appointing today to the City's Noise Review Board. As a little piece of background, board members serve for three years on the City's Noise Review Board. It is a quasi-judicial board, much like the Planning Commission, so it does have some notable weight in terms of the decision-making process. Absolutely.
 And we have had an honor of working with both of these folks in the city's noise office and look forward to working with them as newly appointed board members. And let me introduce Desi and Ernest, and I'm not sure if any of the council members have any questions for them. Well, I have one question, actually.
 The biggest noise issue that's come before this council in my year plus a couple of months, 14-ish months, has definitely been related to the increased volume of construction, particularly construction that involves pile driving, if I can use that pejorative term. And there are a couple of technologies that are out there,
 And as I understand it, there's one technology that costs a little more, that is quieter. There's one that's faster, cheaper, but much more disruptive to the neighborhood. First of all, did I get that right? And second of all, where do you come down on that issue? For me, I've been a pile driver for the last eight years. Really, I mean, there are a lot of variables involved here.
 There's not really one superior way over the other. I mean, you're looking at location, you're looking at soil conditions, you're looking at the structure itself. I mean, if you're going to be building a 30-foot tall or a 30-story tall high-rise, I mean, you get up on that 30th floor, the last thing on your mind is what's holding that building up. That's something that we just take for granted when you're sitting up in the Portland City Grill.
 We count on the people that are building those structures, those engineers, those people in the field that actually put that together, that they know what they're doing and that they've built it in a way that we're safe and we're comfortable. Sometimes that may be auger cast where they're drilling. Sometimes that may be with driven piles. Really, it depends on the location, where you're at, and I think safety. And making sure that we're up to code for a seismic event is of the utmost importance.
 Can I follow up? Commissioner Fish, please. I have a question, Paul, for you. Yes. You know, the construction noise issue normally comes to us around new construction. I rent an apartment in a building that's going through a major updating. And one of the things they're doing, and it's not atypical of buildings of this vintage, is they're replacing all the windows. And my building has more windows than any apartment building in the city. So...
 That process of removing metal windows and replacing them with energy efficient is like – the experience for me is like being in a dentist's office with someone having a nuclear-powered drill. And it reverberates around the whole building, and the noise is just absolutely deafening. And what I've heard from the building management is there's no way around this. We're sorry. We're going to do it during regular work hours. Right.
 How do we balance these questions when it's a renovation? And it's clearly that everybody is being told that they're not going to have quiet enjoyment during regular work hours. And I should note that in my building, there are a lot of older adults who live there, so they're retired. So the idea that everyone's going to work and the building's empty and so there's less of an impact is just not the case. And there's a lot of people actually who are there 24-7. Okay.
 How do we strike that balance? You know, it is a difficult balance to strike. We are one of the cities that has more restrictive construction hours for a city the size we are. So I think we try to restrict it by having a tighter window. You can't start 6 in the morning like many cities. You start at 7 and have to be finished at 6. The challenge is so many of the projects, not necessarily in your building, wind up having a...
 a element where you're trying to balance ground floor or multi-floor commercial with residences in the building. So you often have an even worse situation where someone's trying to push the envelope because they're working during the day, want to do the renovations at night. So it is definitely an ongoing challenge in the city to find a perfect balance. I don't think there's a better solution than we currently have, which is trying to keep a fairly tight window to the hours of construction.
 That's one of the few options that we have for maintaining some level of sanity. It obviously doesn't work perfect if you're stuck at home, if you're retired in your home, if you're bed-bound. So it's not necessarily a perfect situation, but that's one of the things we've tried to do. Yeah, and I think one thing I'd like to explore later, not now, is –
 To what extent does the volume of noise in that context really deprive a tenant of the right of quiet enjoyment? And this becomes less a noise code issue because you're following the rules and you're trying to do the right thing. And does this become a landlord-tenant question where, in effect, the tenant –
 arguably should have the right to say, if I'm going to continue to live in this environment, you know, there needs to be an adjustment of my rent because I'm not getting the benefit of the bargain. And, again, this is a different category than new construction, which I know is very burdensome to surrounding neighbors. But we're going to see more of this, particularly as buildings become more energy efficient. And, you know, when you replace all the windows and put up scaffolding, that's a big deal. Right.
 And just the typical person in my building to put the face on it, it's a six-week job to replace the windows.
 Open up the windows, put the scaffolding in, put up boards, have construction workers coming in and out of your apartment, drilling, art falling off the walls. I mean, all this stuff for six weeks. And at some point, it seems to me that's just excessive. Yeah. I mean, it's humbling that I'm in a position at my own residence that I'm in year, I want to say three and a half, four straight of construction because I'm in the Williams-Vancouver corridor. Yeah.
 So I know how maddening this is for neighbors to have construction every day, month after month, or literally in some cases if you're in the Pearl, if you're on Williams, Vancouver, Belmont, all these dense places, you are often dealing with constant construction for months to years straight, and it can be definitely maddening. So anything that we can do to find some solutions is definitely –
 an important factor as the city is growing and very well spoken. Thank you. So I will work with you and Chloe on this and the Office of Landlord-Tenant Affairs, Mayor, and I think part of it can be addressed through better notice. Thank you.
 Part of it can be addressed through accommodations because some people actually have to be moved. If you're home convalescing from an injury, you can't be in the middle of a war zone. If you have a diminished immune system, you can't be around people just traipsing in and out of your apartment. And then part of it, it seems to me, needs to be financial accommodations. Very good. I'd like to give Mr. Harris a say if he'd like. Oh, sure.
 As a landlord, I've been on all the things that you've talked about. I've been part of that on the receiver side as well as listening to the issues. But I think overall, when it comes down to noise and making those types of decisions, we have to take into account what the public thinks.
 to address the issues of the public. Some of the issues that you addressed, some of the things that the Mayor has even talked about, we have to actually look at those types of things and try to weigh the construction versus the public interest in reducing some of the noise.
 And so one of the things that the mayor just talked about was about having different types of methodologies to pursue the...
 the construction parts of that that might limit some of the noise. And so looking at some of those kinds of things might be an option as well. But then there's regulations and all of that. So all these kinds of things have to be taken into consideration in making decisions to further that process. Thank you very much.
 Well, as you can tell, you're going to be front and center because the pace of construction in this city will probably increase rather than decrease in the years ahead. Of course, of course. And noise has become a paramount concern for people. We're hearing this from many, many more people. So I just wanted you to be aware of the kind of conversations we're having.
 Commissioner Fritz. I don't know actually that it is many more people. It's an ongoing thing. It was certainly a major part of my first term starting in 2009 the Noise Committee was dealing with this issue. Mary Sipe, who's here in the audience, has obviously been very involved in it, but certainly throughout when Mayor Hales had the Bureau and then when I did at the end of his term. This is something that we're going to just keep working with and I very much appreciate your willingness to serve. I know we don't usually take testimony on reports, so I'll
 reference Mary Seip and others who have shown up at the meetings and that you listen very carefully and I appreciate that very much I don't
 The big conclusion I came to is there isn't a single right answer, and we're just going to try to keep modifying it and recognize that there's always going to be challenges and that probably we can always do better. So thank you for your willingness to step up and grapple with that. It's often a case where nobody says thank you at the end of the hearing, so thank you right now for what you're going to be helping us deal with.
 Very good. I'll entertain a motion, colleagues. So to adopt the report. Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Newdaly, for finding these wonderful people who are willing to serve and keep serving. It is a very challenging committee. Thank you, Paul Van Orden, for all of your service to the city. And yay, Portland, for having an organization such as the Office of Neighborhood Involvement that truly does engage community members in not only giving input into decisions, but actually making them. So thank you. Thank you.
 Fish. Well, thank you, Mr. Harris and Ms. Wright, for your willingness to serve. And I just say that as someone dealing with a health challenge who also lives in a rental building, I have a new perspective on noise. And I'm not just talking about the annoying person that fires up the leaf blower at 7 o'clock on Saturday morning. So I look forward to working with you, and thank you very much for stepping up and serving.
 Thank you. Consultant? Yes, thank you very much for your willingness to serve. And thanks, Paul. Hi. You daily. Well, Commissioner Fish, I'm surprised that you didn't take this opportunity to bring up the garbage trucks in your neighborhood. And perhaps you want to consider moving back to northeast Portland and joining me on the east side because you live in a really noisy neighborhood. I certainly do. Okay.
 So I just want to say we call it noise control, and I think that public perception of that means that we're just here to restrict noise. We're actually here to protect people's right to make noise as well as protect residents' right to live in a relatively tolerable environment. So, yeah, just thank you for your continued service, and I look forward to working with you. Thank you.
 Well said, Commissioner Udailey. That's exactly what you are. You're the balancers of interests, and it's not an easy job, but we have two great candidates. Thank you for your voluntary service. We appreciate it. Paul, as always, thanks for the great work that you do. I vote aye, the report's adopted. Back to time certain, item number 184.
 approve the designation of 16 trees as City of Portland Heritage Trees and remove the heritage tree designation from six trees. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I think, no, this is a...
 Hearing that, everybody on the council looks forward to every year, so I'm very happy to introduce this ordinance to add to our growing inventory of City of Portland Heritage trees, which currently has 298 trees with this designation. And I encourage folks watching at home to be thinking about where there might be significant trees in your neighbourhood. I know there are some neighbourhoods like mine that have zero, so I certainly am keeping my eye out and going to be nominating some.
 The Heritage Tree Program is an important part of raising public awareness regarding the contribution of trees in our community. So thank you, Urban Forestry staff, Angie De Silva, and Urban Forestry Commissioner, Greg Everhart, who have led the Heritage Tree Committee selection process.
 Thank you, Council Members, for the opportunity to bring heritage trees forward on our annual trip here to look at nominations and delistings. My name is Angie DeSalvo. I'm Parks and Rec Urban Forestry staff. And Urban Forestry manages the Heritage Tree Program under authority of Title XI Trees. This includes administering the program, inspecting and protecting heritage trees, as well as maintaining our publicly owned heritage trees.
 Urban Forestry Commission is a key partner in this important program and their primary responsibility is making recommendations to you for nomination of new trees. As such, Greg Everhart, Urban Forestry Commission member and chair of the committee, is going to be presenting today.
 Great. And I know most of you have heard me several years in a row now, but we miss Commissioners Daily, so I'm just going to remind you that you can't be a heritage tree unless you are large, old, have a connection with some historical event or figure, or perhaps are a really unusual horticultural type.
 It is an abnormally large number of trees, both to lose six in one year. Normally it's one or maybe two.
 But we're really happy that we did really great outreach and we had 87 nominations. It's a little more than we prepared to handle. So I'm going to go quickly through the delistings. These trees have all been removed at this point. So this is really kind of a record keeping thing. But last winter, you remember, we had both a major ice storm and a snow storm. It was pretty devastating to the urban forest.
 Heritage trees actually did really well. Of the nearly 300, we had four damaged severely. This white oak had some upper limbs damaged and then this crack developed and it was moving. So the first of these three trees were actually removed with emergency permits and by code the city forester can deem a tree to be an immediate hazard.
 So on the slide you'll see a common name, a scientific name, the number of heritage trees of that type we have, and then some of the measurements we take. The one in parentheses is really important because all the Title XI numbers are in inches at diameter height. Heritage trees, which are usually quite large, we measure and record their circumference. But remember...
 Those numbers like 12 inches and 30 and 36 inches. Because where I can, I'll tell you how old a tree is. You really realize then what we lose in terms of years. Sometimes how irreplaceable, you know, any tree might be. There's a heritage tree number. We're up in like the 340s, I think, now. Because we've lost some over the years. Okay.
 And then we've got the location of the tree and then how many heritage trees there are in each neighborhood because they are not spread evenly. So this oak tree had this big split and part of it was moving. It would have landed on potentially a sidewalk street and other buildings. So the city forester gave a removal permit.
 It wasn't needed here. This was a victim of the snow and actually brought this tree to you two years ago. We think it was actually a multiple tree, you know, five or six acorns that sprouted and grafted together. But they were leaning so that the snow load basically took the whole thing down. We do salvage the wood. Some of this oak wood has become benches in community gardens.
 This third tree was essentially dead. Inspector happened to drive by. They know where the heritage trees are, and there were no leaves on it in June. So this was sort of the dead-dying kind of removal permit. Only have one more shag park hickory, so that's a fairly rare tree from the Midwest. This actually shows you specific storm damage. We lost two of our American elms. We've lost actually...
 three or four of them in the last two years. So we're getting to a reduced number of elms. This tree had been in the program. If it's a public tree, urban forestry's arborists do the pruning and maintenance for the tree. So the committee where the tree is not an imminent hazard actually goes and visits the tree.
 We look at it. We've got half the committee is arborists, and we agreed with Urban Forestry that this tree literally could not recover. There's then a public hearing before the Urban Forestry Commission, and it needs at least six commissioners to vote to delist and remove a tree. Because this happens throughout the year, this is not a decision we bring to council. The commissioners for Urban Forestry are allowed to make this decision.
 But there's a public hearing. The neighborhood nominated this tree, still lives there. Sad to see it go, but supported our recommendation. This elm is more recent in the program. The branch that broke was actually 36 inches in diameter and didn't hurt anyone, but did hit a couple of cars and in a building. So when we met here, you see the sign there? I thought we had a protest on our hands.
 But it was actually a memorial, sort of an honoring of this tree. And so it's my reminder to say that people love trees. They particularly love large trees and even more particular heritage trees. So again, this tree had already had all the pruning it needed to avoid this problem and was not going to be able to recover. Thank you.
 The last one is an example. I think it was our smallest tree. This was in the first courtyard at the Chinese Garden.
 It's actually an example of a horticultural variety, and its historic connection was because it's native to China and was found in a southeast neighborhood yard, and those people were willing to donate it to the garden. So it had a long decline for a particular kind of root rot, and it had fewer and fewer leaves, so it's also being replaced. Okay.
 So that's the bad news. I say for the osmanthus that it's quite a gorgeous smell when it's in bloom. And when I visited there with my parents, when they visited here, they were selling small ones at the shop. And I purchased one. It's still alive, but it's by no means grown a lot.
 So obviously it's something that's get to that size. It's a very slow growing tree unless I'm not doing what I should be doing to it. Keep it moist and you'll probably be good. Well, that was the depressing part of the presentation. And I know we're going to jump into the forward looking optimistic part of the presentation. I want to acknowledge we have some students here from Lincoln High School from the urban exploration class. Did I get that right? Yeah.
 Welcome. It's good to have you all here. Who's your teacher? Mary Wagner. Thank you for being here. Thanks for bringing your students in. We appreciate it. You bet. I'm always willing to influence young people to help plant, and nominate potential heritage trees. So this is the fun part. The bad news is that we still don't have an even distribution of heritage trees. There are only five, for instance, that are east of I-205.
 And this shows kind of in color, the darker greens are the neighborhoods with more heritage trees. And the light green is a little deceptive because those neighborhoods don't have a heritage tree. So we're doing two things about that. One is that we've added three new members to the committee. Two are from outer east. One is from southwest. So now the committee is better geographically diversified.
 We also started to track where our nominations were, and we've improved sort of the instructions so people will be more successful with their nominations. Because you see that some of those little tree symbols are gray, right?
 Those are trees that either were not healthy enough, actually hadn't been compared in terms of dimensions to existing heritage trees, or perhaps were not in the right of way. They'd been nominated as a public tree, but in Southwest it's hard to find the sidewalks. So could I interrupt, and maybe you could just quickly catch me up. So for a heritage tree to be a heritage tree, it has to be typically old, large,
 of historical significance, it has to be nominated. And who is it nominated to? It could be nominated by anyone, but if it's on private property, you need to have the consent of the owner. And so what happened in Southwest... And where did they nominate it? What? Where did they nominate it? Oh, it's a one-page form.
 And it's available on the website. The deadline is always the end of arbor month, which is April. So May 1st, we'll know how many nominations we've got this year. And then it goes to this... I will put the link on the front page of my website so that people can do this, yeah. Then it goes to this committee. No, there's one prior step, and that's what's shown in this slide. There's actually an inspection. And so a certified arborist from Urban Forestry goes out and sees that the tree is reasonably healthy
 It has no big structural defects. It has enough room to grow both in the air and in the ground, and that it will have a long potential life, and that the consent form was signed if needed to be. Then it goes to the committee. Then it goes to the committee. And what kind of vote is required at the committee? For a heritage tree status, we had 10 people on most of our site visits. We had at least seven, often unanimous votes.
 support. For a tree of merit which has no protection, is not in the code, we go with a simple majority. And then it goes to the commission before it comes to us? Yes, and they need to actually, I think that again is six, but that's been unanimous each year as well.
 One of the things I remember Commissioner Novick saying was that we should maybe allow for slightly younger trees so that they could have more time to enjoy their heritage-ness, which I thought was a good point because some of these trees are not going to get big and old unless they get the right pruning, the right encouragement, the right protections. Thank you.
 That is actually what the tree code is supposed to do. I am continually saying we need to protect our teenagers and our middle-aged trees so that we have the seniors. But the code is what the code is in terms of what qualifies a tree to be a heritage tree. So that's yet another thing that we need to correct in this tree code.
 Well, it is a burden. Urban forestry maintains all the public trees, so there's some financial limits. And we have roughly half public and half private.
 Thank you. Can you extend my time slightly? Of course. Okay, I do have. We're not going to. Technical questions doesn't count anyway. Oh, okay. Well, I have Angie reminding me of the time. Anyway, I won't belabor each of them, that they are each very special. This English walnut is up in Humboldt. Humboldt had no heritage trees. Their tree team and actually some committee members worked really hard to locate some candidates. We have only two of these.
 This is one of the trees that's not as visible as we normally require. You can see the top two-thirds from the street, but there's an alley. And you can see the entire trunk if you peek through the board. So we anticipate putting a second plaque back on the alley.
 Copper beech, we actually have quite a few of these because they grow really large in our climate. And I'm sure Commissioner Fritsch remembers these from the beech forests in England. They're pretty remarkable. This tree is special. It's what we call a phoenix tree. It was struck by lightning in 1960.
 See, it's got that hollow, which normally would terrify a certified arborist or a tree risk assessor, but they assured me that it was basically going to grow back around and that a hollow pipe could be stronger than sort of a solid rod. So I trust them and actually the urban forestry staff. You don't see that cavity from the street, which I think is important. It's not an attractive nuisance to climb in there.
 This Boulevard Cypress was one where I as a landscape architect had no idea they'd get this big. And this is where I'm starting with the private trees because I like to really point out that these folks are giving a gift to their community, their neighbors, they're forgoing use of their property to preserve these trees. So this is a small house in Richmond.
 They cannot do a garage or an ADU, but the tree is like 108 years old and it's an important landmark there. Unusual horticultural variety.
 Here's the standard beech without the colored leaves down in East Moreland. Large lots. You actually had two other nominees. But this was the one that really is expressing most fully what this tree can do. And you look right up the driveway at it. So these photos are from the backyard because it's so big, you've got to get a distance away to see the whole tree.
 By contrast, there's now three small trees. We don't have any of these trees, and without this site, I don't think we would have ever had them as heritage trees. But Karen Hendrickson is the fourth generation of two families that had a nursery on their property in Southwest in Maplewood.
 And it's gotten small over time, and it'll eventually be subdivided. We've actually got five heritage trees that we okayed over the past two years. This one was keyed out. It's Chinese. It took a Martin Nicholson on our committee, who's the curator at Hoyt, a Chinese florist to figure out exactly what it was. Because Karen typically has good records, but this one is always—
 Well, you basically look at the seeds and the fruit. It's a way to identify that, you know, you're Spiessler, Wheelieye, and out of, you know, whatever. So there's a lot of different kinds of maples. And this is not one that's growing in Portland. So you have to find the scientists and botanists that have decided what the name will be and what its identifying characters are. Thank you. I'm sorry. That was sort of a technical question.
 but he had to literally make up an American or common name for it because it didn't translate well. The silver bell is also another small, charming tree. White bells, we saw just the end of the blooms. Oh.
 And then this last one is actually something you probably won't see in this form except at this site. Normally it grows, we plant it now as a street tree with just a solid single trunk. It might grow 40 feet tall. This is already 51 feet. When it's in this multi-trunk shrub form, it would be 20 feet. So this is a remarkable, I mean, they're all remarkable in their own way, but this is totally unexpected. Okay.
 Now I'm into the public trees. There's, I think, eight of them. Ponderosa Pines is south of Gabriel Park. Most of you can actually visit this pretty easily. A real landmark. It's visible from the whole south part of the park as well as the street.
 It's in the Multnomah neighborhood the folks that actually nominated 30 heritage trees They're very concerned about losing large trees and they actually took action on it This Douglas fir was the other one that we found they nominated among a number of people nine different Douglas fir trees This is near a corner. It's had good care over the years urban forestry didn't hesitate to take on a tree this large and
 And then this is the anomaly. We've got four of the same species, which normally doesn't happen because one will be greater than the others. But these were all great. This is a species you see when you step outside City Hall on the Transit Mall.
 very drought tolerant, heat resistant, take in bad urban air. This was actually planted and is the largest remaining tree along Highway 99. So it's up along the interstate light rail.
 And also in the same neighborhood are these three trees, which are in a little piece of sort of leftover right-of-way, maintained by parks. Again, these tough urban trees. I think this is like the essential expression of a tiny park.
 trees and grass, it really just needs a bench. And we couldn't choose. And ultimately one of the most severe, serious members of the committee said, you know, if these were in different locations, we'd accept each of them. So this one is the tallest in I think the northeast corner. And then the tree down in the south actually was the broadest and had the biggest girth.
 So it's kind of like saying, which is the child you don't love the most or something. And so we unusually recommend all four of these same kind of trees. Well, Angie, there was some English ivy on that first one, on the overlook one. So let's get on that. It was right at the base of it. Yeah. If I lived anywhere near it, I'd be out there this afternoon. I think it's something that the youth team might be able to tackle. I just wanted to mention it because it's...
 Educate people for potential forestry careers, high school age. Thank you. This is a sassafras native to the Midwest. I would never have guessed it as a street tree. We think that this particular tree is about 80 years old. We have a historian on the committee, Dave Hedberg, and he found that 12 sassafras trees were inventoried by the Works Progress Administration in 1938. There's no map, but this tree has got the size that...
 would probably have indicated that age. Any chance that there's any minor white photographs of trees? I don't know. I can ask him. I have an expert. The Art Museum has been showing the collection of the photographs he took of Portland. I know his focus was on cast iron buildings and interiors, but there's a lot of stuff along the industrial area, and I wonder if trees were part of his portfolio. Yeah.
 You would think that he would have at least the shade patterns on the buildings. That'd be worth asking the art museum because they have the complete collection. Yeah, that's a great idea. Thank you, Commissioner Frist.
 So down to the last couple. Again, this is a tree like the sassafras in Humboldt that had no heritage trees. So their tree team and our committee members really looked for potential nominees. And this, to me, is a great example of a large tree existing in a reasonably sized tree planting strip, which is why we need a little bit more width along our streets.
 And then the final one, this is the only one that's in a park. I think the common name is really appropriate, a grand fir.
 We had until three years ago just one. This was a tree, that was a tree, the prior Grand Fir that was cut illegally. And it's where council subsequent to that changed the code so that we would penalize the damage or removal of private heritage trees to match what we do for public trees. This tree is actually much bigger, but it was a case of not seeing the tree for the forest. Okay.
 So it's near a path. The plaque will be visible. And it was actually recommended and nominated by someone who looks for state champion trees. So to conclude, 87 nominations. We looked at about 60 of them that made the initial screening. We actually recommended 20, but we had some problems with consent on a couple of them. Trees on property lines are a real problem in this city. So that's it. We're welcome questions, comments.
 Can I show you daily? Yeah. So it sounds like there's a pretty easy nomination form online that includes criteria. Where could members of the public find that? If you Google Portland Heritage Trees, it'll come right up. Great. And the front side is very simple information to fill out. The back side is just sort of some hints for choosing a tree that's likely to succeed. And then...
 I have a question. If one of the properties is sold where there's a privately owned heritage, what are the rules about taking it down if the property is going to be redeveloped?
 Well, that's where the City of Portland's program is unique. The trees are protected. And so this is something that the current owner does, and it constrains their use of the property and the use of the property into the future. So that's why these consent forms are notarized and recorded with the county so that people are alerted. And what happened with the tree that was cut down illegally is...
 someone either took down the plaque or ignored it or who knows what. But you're constraining the value of your property, which is why I think it's such a gift from private property owners. And so what would the penalty be for illegal? It's by inch. Okay. Is it $600? Around there. $600 an inch if you remove the tree where the city forester did not give you a removal permit. Okay. Thank you. Diameter. You're talking...
 Diameter at breast height, yeah. Maybe we should make the penalty by height. Or age. Can we go back for a second to the map that has all the heritage trees? Sure, let me tap, tap, tap. I thought since we have students from Lincoln, we try to figure out which is the closest heritage tree to the Lincoln School campus. They've got one on their campus, I believe. They've got a black walnut. Fantastic. It's a great tree. Yeah.
 Who knew? Good, thank you. Very good. Any further questions, colleagues? Any public testimony? No one signed up.
 This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to secondary. Commissioner Fritz? I just want to thank Greg in particular for all of your work on this. You were a Portland Parks and Recreation employee, but you've been doing this out of the love of Portland and the love of trees for a long time, and I appreciate that. Thanks to Angie DiSalvo and the urban forestry team. And the link to nominate a tree will be on my website by the end of the day and hopefully by the end of the week.
 beginning of the afternoon session. So thank you very much everybody for your attention and I'm very proud of all this work. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, would you entertain an emergency clause so that our visiting students can see democracy in action? Oh, what a great idea. Thank you. We have a motion. Is there a second? A second so that these trees would be protected as quickly as possible because that is in the public interest. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll on the amendment. Fritz? That's an excellent idea, Commissioner. Thank you. Aye. Fish? Aye.
 Saltzman. Well, thank you to Parks and Urban Forestry for all the great work you do in this program. These trees are very important to our city. Aye. Eudaly. This is one of my favorite annual events. I've gotten to see two now, and I was happy to, well, happy. It was sweet to see the memorial to the one tree. I kind of think that we maybe should have a little ceremony for those heritage trees that we lose every year. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The amendment's adopted. The main motion, please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Thank you for your presentation. I'm actually starting to grow a little tree in my apartment, and I've noticed in the last year it's grown a half inch. So it's not ready for heritage designation, but we're making progress. Historic figure. Thank you. And I'm reminded that
 We have three former and current parks commissioners here, and every year when we get this presentation, Dan always manages to say it. It's one of his favorite presentations. I think it's one of our collectively favorite presentations. And thank you for your good work. Bye.
 Saltzman Aye Udaly Aye Wheeler We spend a lot of time in this council chamber talking about the character of our city and what makes it special and why it's a community that people love and support. This is obviously a key component of that. Thank you for an excellent presentation.
 And thank you, Commissioner, for all of your hard work over many years to make sure that this program continues to grow and expand. That's a deliberate analogy. And colleagues who have also served as parks commissioners, I know that this is a program you have stewarded with diligence and intentionality as well. Great presentation. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. Thank you. Let's go, please, to item number 191.
 reappoint Jennifer Alger and Jennifer Nye to the Building Code Board of Appeal for terms to expire March 31, 2021 and reassign Jennifer Nye from the alternate architect position to the regular architect position on the board. Commissioner Udailey. I would like to call Mika Keenan up to the front if she is here. Hello. Good morning. So, um...
 Neither appointee could make it today, but Mika's here with BDS to answer any questions. And I'll just tell everyone a little bit about our two appointees. So the Building Code Board of Appeal, here's building code issues that are appealed beyond the BDS Administrative Appeals Board.
 Building Code Board of Appeal consists of private industry professionals from a variety of designated backgrounds. The board provides an alternative to appealing code issues directly to the state. Jennifer Nye, who we're appointing today, has been a member of the board in the alternate architect position for the past three years. She's recommended to fill the membership category of architect for her second term
 replacing David Spitzer. Jennifer has over 15 years of experience as an architect in the Portland area. She's worked on both commercial and single-family projects, ranging from single-story buildings to high-rises. She has a good understanding of the building code and is considered a code resource within her office. Jennifer has...
 quote, enjoyed being on the appeals board so far unquote. And she believes understanding of code and building bring a lot of value to the board. We are also reappointing Jennifer Alger to the building code board of appeal. Jennifer Alger is recommended to renew her current position fulfilling the membership category of builder. Jennifer has been a member of the board in the regular building position for the past three years. She
 She has over 20 years experience in the construction industry. She has an engineering background and education combined with a practical knowledge of building structures. During her career, she has been involved in numerous projects, such as the Gus Solomon Courthouse in downtown Portland, and in addition to the, I know how to say this, Chamecteda Community College Health Sciences Complex in Salem.
 As I mentioned, they're not here, but Mika is, if anyone has any questions. I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Fritz. Well, I appreciate both Ms. Alger and Ms. Nye for being willing to serve the
 There's many, many, as Commissioner Eudaly knows, many, many, many, many appeals boards and other committees within the Bureau of Development Services. And I don't know, but it might be the first time that for the Building Code Board of Appeals that we had a majority of women on the committee. And so that's something that I was working on when I was in charge of the Bureau, and I'm very glad to see that you have achieved the goal. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Well, I would just like to say thank you to Jennifer Nye and Jennifer Alger. And like Jennifer, I have also enjoyed my job so far. Thank you for your continued service. Thanks for being here, Mika. Aye. Of course. Wheeler.
 Again, I want to thank Jennifer for her service to this community and continuing to participate and even providing a quote demonstrating how fun it can be to volunteer and serve, even on a committee that's under a tremendous amount of pressure. So wherever you are, thank you. I vote aye. The report's adopted. Thank you. Next item, 194.
 accept recommendations of the Special Appropriations Committee for grant awards from the $350,000 allocated to competitive special appropriations program during the fall bump process. Good morning, Craig. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you for accommodating me today. For the record, my name is Craig Haynes, and I'm an employee of the Office of Management and Finance, Grants Management Division.
 Today I'm here to present the recommendations of the Special Appropriations Committee for grant awards from the $350,000 allocated to the FY 17-18 Comparative Special Appropriation Program during the firebomb process.
 The committee consists of a representative from each commissioner's office and one from the mayor's office, and they were charged with reviewing, discussing, and making recommendations for funding from the applications received for the competitive special awards program. The individuals who served on the committee are Tia Williams...
 formerly of Commissioner Salzman's office, Jamie Dumphy of Commissioner Fish's office, Christina Neves representing Commissioner Fritz's office, Pauline Berg from Commissioner Udaly's office, Michelle Planbeck and Nathan Howard took turns representing the Mayor's office. It's a very collaborative effort. I want to thank the committee for the time and energy they contributed towards the process.
 The committee picked up where they left off after allocating the first $6,750,000 that was awarded to the program.
 This funding was awarded among 17 organizations. However, of these 17 organizations, the committee voted to rescind the funding from the rebuilding center. The reason being the rebuilding center decided not to pursue the feasibility study for which they were originally awarded funding. The committee didn't think it was fair to the other applicants to allow a resubmission. The $45,000 taken from the rebuilding center was added to the $350,000.
 allocated during the far-bond process and everything was redistributed out. The committee is pleased to recommend the following 10 organizations for funding. Carla, could you? Kind of small, I think it's... Here we go. You'll have to scroll it down, Craig, to get to the rest of it. Okay, I'll move over real quick. Yeah. So this slide shows the organizations that were awarded funding.
 It shows the name of the organization, the grant project title. It gives a brief project summary, and the column to the far right shows the amounts awarded. Amounts in red have been modified from the original amount requested, and those organizations are Amplify Northwest, Central City Concern, El Programa, Hispano Catalogico. My Spanish is not very good. Families in Accion, Boom Forward,
 New Avenues for Youth, Northwest Disability Support, Planned Parenthood, Columbia Willamette, REAP Incorporated, Right Around Portland.
 Total funding for the competitive award for FY17-18 is $1 million. Total grants awarded were 26 grants, 16 under the first allocation and 10 under the second allocation. We hope this group of awardees accurately represents the goals and values of the City of Portland and encourage the Council to continue with the competitive special awards process.
 That concludes my presentation. I'll try my best to answer any questions the council may have. Thanks, Craig. You're welcome. So all of these organizations previously qualified for the initial round. Is that correct? Yes. I mean, we received 166 applications originally. We awarded 17. And with the additional funding that we received, we went back to those applications and choose 10 more organizations to award funding to.
 So I guess I'm not clear what the difference between the red type saying they received additional funding. Didn't they all receive additional? Isn't that all? No, the figures in red shows modification from the original amounts requested by these organizations. Say, for instance, one organization requested $100,000, but we reduced that ask and gave them, say, $50,000. So that's what the amounts in red represent. Okay, thanks. Thanks.
 Is there any public testimony on this item? This is a report. Mayor, I move the report. But we would take testimony, right? Because this is the opportunity for the public to weigh in on whether we should or should not give these grants. And we know that although Mr. Walsh has had to leave today, he's going to pull these things off consent in the future, saying that there was no opportunity. But I don't see anybody who's wanting to testify anyway. Is that correct? That's correct.
 Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. Mayor Wheeler, thank you for continuing this process. I think it's far fairer to have this organized process where we encourage people, organizations to apply for the special appropriations money, and then we don't pick favorites during the budget process, which has so many other pressures on it. I also appreciate the active engagement of all the council offices to decide who gets this money. Of course, subject to council action.
 and or final decision-making, certainly there is an opportunity for the community to have weighed in on these allocations as soon as they were published. And so I am very confident that this is a good way to do things and I am also very confident in each of these allocations. Thank you to Christine and Nieves and my staff who have put in a lot of time on it. Fish.
 Yeah, I want to echo everything Commissioner Fritz just said and thank the auditor for actually giving us the roadmap to how we might do this in a more transparent and open way. And I want to thank Jamie Dunphy on my team, my Jamie, for all of his hard work. And these are wonderful organizations, and I'm proud to support the recommendations. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Well, I want to thank the OMF staff, especially Craig Haynes, Sheila Craig, and staff from the various commissioners' office, but in particular my own Polly Ann Burge. Aye. Wheeler. I think this is another great example of how our teams can work together to actually do great work together. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. 195. Thank you. Thank you, Craig.
 195, approve application for the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for 26 and Ankeny Apartments located at 2580 Southeast Ankeny Street.
 Colleagues, this apartment building, 26th and Ankeny Apartments, will have 15 of the 96 units affordable to households earning up to 80% of area median income for 99 years as part of the inclusionary housing program.
 This is the third project for which the developer Urban Development Group has chosen to voluntarily opt in to the inclusionary housing program in order to benefit from both the parking exemption and other incentives that are available under the program.
 The multiple unit limited tax exemption or multi-program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing projects choosing to make units affordable rather than paying a fee in lieu. Each multi-unit application comes before the City Council for approval and that's why it's here.
 In addition to the 10-year tax exemption provided by the multi, this project will also receive an exemption of the affordable housing construction excise tax that otherwise would have been due on the affordable units.
 This project will join 17 other projects that have already been included under the Inclusionary Housing Program. I want to say that again. This project will join the other 17 projects that have already been approved under the Inclusionary Housing Program, making a total of 92 units affordable in otherwise market-driven developments.
 and I'd like to welcome our Director of Housing. Good morning, Shannon. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Shannon Callahan from the Housing Bureau. As the Mayor said, we're pleased to be here with the 17th project under the new Inclusionary Housing Program adopted less than or finalized less than one year ago. This is now bringing 92 units of affordable housing under the program and developments that encompass more than 1,000 total units of
 Doria VanBockel, the Portland Housing Bureau's Development Incentives Manager, is here with me this morning to answer any questions you may have. Good morning. Good morning. I know Commissioner Fish has a couple of questions. Yes, thank you very much, and I'm going to support this item. But I have a couple of questions, some of which are just to make sure the record is complete, and then I actually have some honest questions that I don't know the answer to. So under the rules, it appears that –
 we're requiring that 5% of the units be fully accessible for a disabled tenant, which in this case means one of the units. Is that threshold big enough, high enough, or should we think about increasing it? I mean, there's always opportunity to explore that further. It is to clarify, too, adaptability to be fully accessible in the need of a tenant. Right.
 It is not a lot greater than the overall standards by the city code itself. So that is something programmatically that could be explored. So, Mayor, I just want to put a card down. Just as we've normalized the requirement that there be a green roof,
 I think it's time that we take a look at our code and figure out what are some of these adaptability and accessibility requirements, and we should bake them into our code and not link them to incentives plans. We are, after all, a graying population, and I think we should be building more accessible units as of right. Thanks, Commissioner. Make this an incoordinary course. Good point. This particular tax abatement is calculated on the basis of just the units. They're affordable.
 But, Shannon, I was struck by that it also extends to the common areas and the parking. Why? Okay.
 That is a function of the underlying tax exemption program. So it is within the ability of a city council to change, but that is how the tax exemption program is operated for. Can I clarify, too, that would just be for the percentage of the affordable units? So can I just observe that while I am a big believer in having those common spaces, my Bug Car Commons has an art room, projects that Dan has developed and his housing commissioner had communal spaces. So we support that.
 I do think that the calculation of the 15% there is probably open to some creative math. So I would ask you to be particularly zealous in making sure that their calculation of 15% actually has a real-world flavor.
 The county assessor looks at that when they actually do the appraisal of the property based on the square footage of the area. I'm just going to go out on a limb and say that I doubt the county assessor does a site visit. But, again, I think we ought to be careful that the incentive is tailored narrowly and that someone isn't defining the common spaces in some very extravagant way. Okay.
 What happens after 10 years? We're going to this afternoon put in place permanent relocation protections.
 So we have someone who's in an affordable unit for 10 years. At the end of the 10 years, the regulatory agreement expires. What happens to the tenant? The regulatory agreement does not expire. The tax exemption is for a period of 10 years, but the requirement for affordability is for a period of 99. For 99. So that person, so that's an important distinction so that it continues. So someone who is fortunate enough to get into one of these apartments can expect to be there as long as they can afford the rent.
 Yes. And here's my final question. There was a flood of applications and entitled projects to beat the deadline for IZ. Yes. And so we have, as a council, been talking about how to create incentives to bring some of those developers back into the fold. Yes. And that's an example here, right, where they otherwise could develop without IZ, but we're offering them an incentive? Yes.
 This particular developer had a vested permit prior to inclusionary zoning, but based on the package of incentives that were offered, chose to opt in. And this developer, I think, will tell you, as the mayor has said, that the waiver of parking requirements when paired with inclusionary zoning is key for this developer to make these pencil. And so they've literally chosen this.
 The mayor will actually be bringing back and incenting the pipeline program that we plan to have at this council on March, I believe it's 14th. Okay. So, Shannon, the one piece of this that gives me pause is I'm all for creating incentives for people that opted out by virtue of that rush to file ahead of it. And I think we calculated, what, somewhere between 15,000 and 20,000 units? Yes. Okay.
 So there was a conscious effort in the development community to avoid IZ because we set a prospective date and everybody who could tried to get their applications in. Can you assure me that in creating the incentives, we are not in effect giving a better deal to actors who chose to opt out than people who agreed to play by the rules and follow an ordinary course?
 Because one thing, I want to create incentive, but I don't want to have a perverse situation where we're rewarding people who actually intentionally tried to avoid having IZ and now are getting a better deal. You know, Commissioner, I think a lot of the projects that are in the pipeline will never actually come to fruition. I think the reality is that people rushed in and may not actually have the ability to complete those projects. Right. You know, the projects that we would be looking to incent are projects that would be moving forward. Right.
 And I think that this is not an uncommon feature for developers to come in in advance of any particular change that they think impacts their bottom line. You know, when we've seen SDC increases, whether they be in parks or transportation, we've not quite seen the flood of applications, but it's very, very common that folks will take advantage of the opportunity to apply. But I don't think the package will be bringing back.
 in March will be incenting that behavior. So if you could just, and not necessarily today, but if you could follow up with me, the question I'd be interested in knowing is developer A, who is playing by the rules of IZ and is currently developing and is agreeing with our rules, versus developer B, who...
 peremptorily filed something to beat the deadline on IZ but is now taking advantage of some additional sweetener and is in a better position because of their behavior. And I would have, from an equity point of view, I would have a concern that if we were giving better benefits to developer B than developer A who's playing by the rules. Yes, I'll follow up with you on that, Commissioner. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Well, just to follow up on that too, not for you, but for Commissioner Fish, we can only provide incentives on parking if we're requiring parking in the first place. So I would submit to my colleagues that that's something to just think about as we move forward. So the projects in the pipeline, or yeah, the projects we're talking about that sort of beat the deadline. Mm-hmm.
 Were they issued building permits? Is that what the final action was? No, it could have been any number of different steps in terms of land use action to be able to get in ahead. And it will vary, but it's actually a feature of state law in our existing code. It was not much we could have done. A land use action would have been a determining factor as well. Isn't there some deadline under which a land use action or a building permit actually expires if it's not executed within a certain amount of time? I believe it's –
 I believe it's three years, though I think there is, quite frankly, some legal wiggle room with that. So, I mean, they will, you know, certain projects, as always will happen, whether pre-IZ or not, will naturally not proceed for a variety of different reasons. As you heard in the hearing last week, it's the rules in effect on the day you submit your application. So...
 regardless of whether they're going through the land use process or the building application, it's if they've got their application in which they all did, and even if it's on the back of a napkin and in no way complete or no way doable. So that's, as Director Callahan said, it's a function of state law that we don't have any control over. Yeah, just kind of underscores to me, I mean, I've obviously shared the concern. We have so many projects that beat the deadline.
 But I've always sort of, in the back of my mind, been perfectly content to wait and watch, you know, wait until those deadlines on our permits expire and those projects are no longer valid because 15,000, 20,000 units in the pipeline is not going to happen. So many of these projects will not happen.
 The ones that will happen will have to happen under our new rules, the inclusionary housing rules. Director, I have one other question. So I look forward to the incentives, but I'm somewhat content also to play this game out too and send the message to the development community, these rules aren't going away. These are bedrocks now of our housing development in the city of Portland.
 Well said. Director, I have one other question, but I couldn't read my handwriting, which is fine. I'd be happy to follow up with you later. I think I should have gone into the medical profession, not politics. So according to the cheat sheet I have, the value of the 10-year exemption here is $150,000? Per unit? No, in total. In total. And that will be applied against the $3 million cap? Yes.
 It's actually just the first year that's applied towards the $3 million cap. What's the distinction? Just the first year of foregone revenue, so the $16,247 will go towards the $3 million cap. I see. And for 2018, how much cap do we have left? A lot. A lot. So we have not been bumping up against the cap? No. No.
 No, and Commissioner, if you remember, we also negotiated with the county a rolling cap over a period of time to meet the development cycle. So making sure that no jurisdiction, we had a $3 million cap, but we're calculating that over a five-year period so that we can meet development cycles if we need to. Again, let me just go back. Please be rigorous in defining common spaces. Thank you. I'm not a former IRS agent, but I'm told that sometimes people get very creative in defining home offices.
 there might be some creative math in terms of common spaces, and let's make sure they're truly common spaces, accessible to everybody and not a way just to pump up the benefit of the exemption. Thank you. So thank you. Any further questions? Is there public testimony on this item? Carla? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Fritz? Thank you both for your work. Aye. Fish? Good project, and thank you for your very clear explanations. Aye. Saltzman? Thank you, and thanks to the Urban Development Group.
 for their continued interest in our inclusionary housing program. Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? I'd like to second that thank you to the Urban Development Group. They're very clearly helping to lead and demonstrating that IZ can work very effectively in this community, and I want to thank my colleagues who have worked on this for a number of years. There are a few bureaus that have actually...
 I've been stewarded by three sitting members of the City Council, and I want to applaud my colleagues who've worked on this previously, and I want to thank both of you, Shannon Dory, and your whole team for their hard work on this. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 196.
 Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Home Forward to provide asset management and development consulting services for Portland Housing Bureau-owned properties to satisfy the housing bond production goal. Colleagues, prior to the passage of the housing bond, the Portland Housing Bureau has primarily been a funder of affordable housing and not an owner or developer.
 In order to meet the bond's production goals efficiently and effectively, I directed the Housing Bureau to work with our partners and utilize existing capacity rather than duplicating our efforts.
 Home Forward is a trusted partner of the City of Portland and an integral part of the City's housing programs. In addition, as an Oregon public entity, Home Forward is subject to the Oregon Public Contracting Code, so they're particularly qualified to issue solicitations on behalf of the Portland Housing Bureau.
 Collaborating with Home Forward to develop and manage housing created under the bond creates time and cost efficiencies. This allows the Portland Housing Bureau to leverage Home Forward's current resources and capacity to reach the bond framework goals quickly and effectively. Thank you.
 Home Forward has proven expertise in procurement subject to Oregon Public Contracting Code, long-term asset management experience, and development of affordable housing for the most vulnerable populations in Portland. This allows for immediate management oversight and coordination of the current bond properties, as well as pre-development design work on the Southeast 30th and Powell development.
 This partnership brings the benefit of both agencies' best practices to the bond framework by creating low-barrier, sustainable, and affordable housing for Portlanders. Beyond that, we're showing how good government and partnership can enhance the work that we're all doing on these critical housing issues.
 By taking meaningful steps to make our housing bond an example in partnership with Home Forward, we're also supporting the efforts of the state pushing a constitutional amendment that will give us greater flexibility to continue to stretch our housing dollars further.
 The constitutional amendment is a key piece of my strategy for also supporting the regional housing bond, because affordability is not an issue that's unique to Portland alone. As a region, we can demonstrate through Portland's housing bond that government can be responsive and responsible. This is ultimately why I support the constitutional amendment and have been fighting for it on behalf of my regional colleagues.
 That's why I've pushed the Housing Bureau to do more, faster, and better on behalf of all Portlanders. And I'm grateful that I can count on Home Forward to be right there with me and with this city council.
 I want to thank both Home Forward and the Housing Bureau for taking up my challenge and collaborating to get this work done. I'd like to invite the Interim Director for the Portland Housing Bureau, Shannon Callahan, and Executive Director of Home Forward, Michael Buonicor. Thank you for being here today. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioner. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau.
 Last year, the Housing Bureau and community members completed an extensive framework for the implementation of Portland's housing bond. Those guidelines have led us to the partnership you have before you today. Before we talk about the specifics of this intergovernmental agreement, I wanted to share with you the broad outline of some of our bond goals as a reminder.
 The Portland Housing Bond is Oregon's first voter-approved measure for affordable housing. It's a $258 million bond authorization. It will add at least 1,300 new affordable homes, 600 of which will be deeply affordable.
 And deeply affordable to us means a family that's making 30% or less than median family income. For instance, a family of two would be making less than $20,000 a year to qualify for a deeply affordable unit under the housing bond. 300 units will be set aside for individuals and families that require supportive housing, and 650 units will be sized for families. I wanted to also give you a little update on the progress that we have under the affordable housing bond.
 To date, we've acquired the Ellington apartment complex, converting 263 apartments into permanent housing. We have purchased a site at Southeast 30th and Powell for the development of an estimated 200 new units. And this morning, we're also announcing that we have entered into an agreement for the purchase of a property in Cully for a new development for at least 75 units of affordable housing.
 You will also see on the map in front of you the Cully property and then two other properties we're in active negotiations with in East Portland. Active negotiations means for us that we've entered into letters of intent after receiving approval from our internal and external advisory panel, which consists of two bond oversight committee members on a rotating basis.
 To successfully meet our timelines for development and to ensure that these buildings are operated consistent with our community values in a manner best suited for our tenant success, we've sought out this partnership with Home Forward.
 In practice, I've tried to outline how this would look. Hopefully it will make sense to you. It made sense to me. I was trying to create a house, but it didn't quite come out the way it intended. So in practice, we will use our framework and the policies developed with our community and our bond oversight committee for the foundation of all of this work.
 And then when needed, as for example, on the 30th and Powell site, we will jointly work with Home Forward, who, as the mayor mentioned, is uniquely situated to help us both with public contracting and procurement and has a deep expertise in affordable housing development.
 Then once we develop the building, have a building, Home Forward will step in with professional asset management services. Home Forward performs this function for over 6,000 existing units of affordable housing and will bring their expertise and commitment to resident success to help us provide for the long-term health of both the bond assets and for the tenants who reside in our buildings. Shannon, before you move off that slide. Yeah.
 Could you briefly explain the difference between asset management and property management in this example? So a property manager is a day-to-day on-site partner at the housing complex. And so they take rents, help with minor repairs, generally keep the overall health of the building kind of going, range for landscaping. I mean, it's a little more complex than that.
 Asset management is really a function that interplays with making sure that we are doing the right kinds of accounting. They check with over the property manager. They act kind of as an oversight for that property management relationship. And they make sure that we are planning for the large-scale needs of rehab, and,
 as well as, in this case, Home Forward will also serve as a point of contact, as will the city, for tenants that may have issues on the ground with their property managers. I am sure that our asset management team or Michael could give you a bigger explanation of the work, but that's kind of a high-level overview. And they would also help us plan for resident services. It's not something that we have undertaken in the past.
 We do not have any resident services yet at the Ellington, but as we increase the number of families that are coming into the building, including those with supportive services, we need to make sure that we have a balanced amount of services for those residents. And that's an expertise that, quite frankly, the Housing Bureau does not have, but Home Forward does. So I know I'm greatly oversimplifying this because I'm –
 going to dumb it down even well below the good answer that you just gave. But would it be fair to say that property management is the day-to-day operations in addressing tenant needs and keeping the building clean and functional, whereas asset management is really focused on the property itself and its long-term viability? Is that oversimplifying it to a ridiculous degree, or is that really how those two pots are separated? Yeah.
 It's not ridiculous, no. That is appropriately simplified, and one also applies the discipline at a portfolio level. So we are looking at individual properties, but also looking at the overall health of the land. Okay. That's helpful. Commissioner Fish. Shannon, so I'm trying to get my arms around something here that is a marked departure from our normal practice. So let me just talk it through and then make sure I understand it. Okay.
 With respect to Home Forward properties, they are generally owned by Home Forward, who in turn has a property management company that helps them. Complaints from tenants generally go to Home Forward to be resolved if they can't be resolved internally. And sometimes those complaints come to us because we're the appointing body.
 So that's one category. Another model is how we finance affordable housing development, where we put public resources in, but the nonprofit developer, sometimes for-profit, but mostly nonprofit developer, has an asset management, property management agreement. So complaints from tenants go to the nonprofit. They resolve them unless someone comes here and testifies about a nonprofit that they have a problem with.
 So currently we're sort of one step removed from that process. We're now the owner. Yes. And I think the city only has two affordable housing developments under city lights where we're the owner. So now we're the owner, and we're delegating to Home Forward this function of asset management.
 and they in turn will put a property manager in, and tenant complaints will then be dealt with by Home Forward. But what's different here is that we're the ultimately responsible party because it's our building. So how do you intend to address that change in accountability and also to avoid the city being sort of the logical bypass place to come with a complaint rather than having it addressed at the appropriate level within Home Forward? Sure.
 Commissioner, if I can back up just a little bit. You know, right now the Housing Bureau does not have these functions in-house. So we would literally be looking to create and staff up on asset management and learn on the job, as we've been doing. And so Home Forward is really stepping in for us, at least on an agreed basis for a 42-month period of time, to allow us to professionally manage these buildings in a way that I think is for the benefit of the tenants. I get that.
 People, you know, I look at it very, having worked in the commissioner's office and having taken calls and issues from both folks who live in home forward properties and regulated housing, I'm.
 Home Forward will be the primary contact because I think they understand the relationships and what needs to happen with property management, but it does not prevent an individual or an individual tenant from talking to the city. I think it's actually an added layer of accountability, not a distraction. We're the owner, and we've contracted with Home Forward. So who would the housing bureau contact?
 fields would field that call if there was a complaint that went through Home Forward and then came to us? Well presently right now it's myself or Javier Mena, the Assistant Director, but we are looking to bring on a
 a new position that would help us with not only what we're doing under the bond, but other property management of buildings that are not occupied or properties that are not occupied. So, for instance, we own the Joyce Hotel. It's not occupied presently, but we would have someone who's helping us with insurance and other issues. So we will have a point of contact. Yeah, when you have that point of contact, would you let us know? Because I think what we want to avoid is having five council offices together.
 freelancing with someone that has a complaint, it should go somewhere where someone can pick up the phone, call home forward, get to the bottom of it, and either solve the problem or kick it to somewhere else. We will do that. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. Commissioner E. Daly, did you have a question? Very good. So just briefly, I have just a couple more things before I turn it over to Michael. I just wanted to make sure that...
 Yeah, thank you. This relationship does meet key framework goals identified with our community process of both seeking partnerships and streamlining development, making sure we had sustainable financial viability of our assets and successful management of the building for the tenants.
 Before we've brought this to you today, I also wanted to let you know that we have worked with a variety of community partners on the development of this IGA, including our Bond Oversight Committee, who did an in-depth review of this entire agreement at a meeting two weeks ago and gave their blessing to bring it forward to you. And also, we've been working with Housing Oregon's Public Portland Policy Council over the last few months to
 letting them know about how this partnership would shape out, and making sure that we all understood what this meant for the future of the bond.
 And before I turn it over to Michael, I'd like to just really truly thank Home Forward. They have been a partner with us since the inception of the bond. They committed to, very early on, the support for 400 of the deeply affordable units before we went to the ballot. And quite frankly, their team has been supporting us at every step of the way as we buy, acquire, and address tenant issues. So thank you. Director, one other question. Sure.
 If you were to issue an RFP with a lot of bundled money, the normal course would be that once you've gone through your due diligence process and selected projects, you come to council for approval before you move forward. Yes. What's the equivalent piece here?
 We will be following the same process. At what stage? Well, at acquisition, you will see the property. As I just mentioned this morning, we have a property in Cully that we have entered a purchase and sale agreement. But that has to come to us before it's acquired? You will approve the sale. Okay. When we create the development plan, for instance, we don't have a fully fleshed out development plan for Southeast 30th and Powell. Our first stop...
 is our Bond Oversight Committee to help us plan for the amount of units, making sure that we're reaching our goal overall, what's the blend of permanent supportive housing we're looking at. And then the next step would be you before we move forward on a development of many other steps between there, neighborhood, community. I don't want to shorten the process. But before we move forward on an actual development, it would come to this council. Thank you. Good.
 Michael. Well, good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Councillor, Commissioners. Thank you for having me. Before I offer my prepared comments, I just want to let you know that my very talented Director of Asset Management, Molly Rogers, almost came out of her chair at the question of distinction between asset and property management. I would be happy to provide a primer to anyone who would like to go a little deeper on that.
 So I just this morning want to confirm, affirm our commitment to the success of the bond and our partnership with Shannon and the team at Portland Housing Bureau. Shannon and I meet weekly. Our teams meet in a variety of configurations, more than weekly. And we are all linked and pointed at the same goal, which is to build a system between our agencies that ensure we deliver for the public. Thank you.
 That means getting housing built and acquired that meets a host of goals in the immediate term, from bedroom sizes to geography to population priorities, and making sure that we have our eye on the long-term horizon so they remain affordable housing assets in the community for decades. We live and breathe that work at Home Forward.
 And it's hard, and we bring the benefit of many hard-won lessons from over 75 years of doing that. And so we thank you for your trust in us to help you do this work. And I know I don't need to tell anyone on this council that the housing crisis that we are facing is the result of decades of massive federal disinvestment.
 affordable housing, but it bears being said publicly as often as possible. We continue to struggle with the perception that the crisis of housing and homelessness reflects some kind of local failure. And it is true that we need more done locally. And part of the reason it's important to deliver successfully on this bond is because we need public confidence and support for a regional housing bond, for a dedicated revenue source to fund services for supportive housing, and more.
 But we also need our community and the country to recognize this crisis has been caused by the federal government's failure to provide the resources that we need. And just because they have done so for so long doesn't mean we should accept that it will always be true. We have to demand sustained appropriate federal funding for subsidized housing and vouchers. And we have to hold the conviction that making sure everyone has a safe place to live is a choice that we can make in this country.
 It's a big day for housing at council. You must have days when it feels like it's never enough.
 Getting it right matters. Staying in the fight matters. And we are here to support you every step of the way. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fish? Well, Michael, I wish we could take those words and frame them somewhere. That was a very eloquent statement. And today's Los Angeles Times has an editorial documenting the federal government's failure to follow through on multiple commitments around dealing with mental health crisis. We went from deindustrialization.
 a policy of not wanting to institutionalize people to a policy of wanting to have community-based facilities to a policy of repealing everything that we committed to so there was no policy. I was at a forum last night where a good number of people blamed the city for the housing crisis, and I thought this is Newt Gingrich's vision.
 starve the beast at the federal level, kick it to the local level, and have us fight among ourselves when we don't have the resources. I do want to ask you one question, though. The President's proposed budget targets most of the people that we all care about, where you sit and where we sit. That's right. But one of his budget cuts seemed particularly harsh, and that was zeroing out funding for capital maintenance and public housing. As a practical matter, what would that mean for Home Forward?
 That would be bad. I think about the president's budget in a couple of ways. It's really important for us to speak out about how cruel the impacts would be of that budget, and we need leaders such as yourselves and political leadership at every level voicing how destructive that budget would be. And it's also important for us...
 to reassure our community who reads the news as well and worries that they may be losing their housing assistance. And I think the reality is we have enough champions that I want the community who receives our assistance to feel...
 relatively assured that we believe we'll be able to keep them stable and safe. And we believe that the president's budget is a non-starter. If it were brought to life, it would be incredibly damaging for the community. Thank you. Well said. And does that end your presentation, Shannon? Very good. Is there public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Oh. Great. Thank you for your presentations. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superjustice Watchdog. Again, on that, making the amendment on the Constitution pertaining to the bond use, again, that will also, as you know, will have an effect on the city bond and if they can pass the metro bond, which will also alter the amount of units that can be created from the private units
 to the public partnerships. It's going to have a tremendous change in the direction that this can go pertaining to the city bond itself. So if that does pass, that will make a big difference on the overall units. Now, issue number two is that I want to see on the bond again is to build new units. I want to see new units created.
 I want to see the property tax base expanded. I want to see more supply of units out in the marketplace. I want to see jobs created in the communities. I want to see in the local communities materials being bought to stimulus the local business areas in the communities.
 So I want to see everything built new. I do not want to see seasoned apartments being purchased. I think what happens when you do that as the government is that you basically create a situation where you will drive up unit prices in the marketplace.
 You will compete against the private sector, and they will only have to look at their rents, and they will probably increase their rents across the board. It's a very bad move to be buying existing units and not expanding the current number of units in the marketplace. I absolutely disagree with that. Now, again, on Home Forward...
 I don't have any issues with Home Forward. It's my understanding they are a government entity, if I'm correct. Again, it's my understanding on this situation that they will possibly have ownership of some of these properties if...
 the amendment goes through on the Constitution, which would allow them to do that. Again, my understanding on this property management agreement, it goes for 42 months with a one-year, two-year, a one-two-year extension, I'm sorry. And then you go back to the development agreement, which is a six-month with a three-month possible extension.
 On the development agreement itself, I understand Home Forward will be getting a percentage of any project being built. My understanding on the development fee will be 5%. On the management fee overall on the project will be 10%. Again, I don't have any issue with Home Forward making that money.
 My position is that I just want to have an understanding. Will they end up acquiring any of these properties, or will this continue on the bond to be all city-owned? Thank you.
 Very good. And let me just reflect on one comment that you made with regard to purchasing existing housing. I think you made a good argument, and I understand your argument, but we're already in competition with the private sector. There's competition for all of the real estate.
 There is not a lot of land out there. When we can do a land play, we certainly do it. We build from scratch. But the goal when we have housing that's existing is to preserve it as affordable housing. And so housing that may be lower income.
 I'm using this as a pejorative, but lower income housing today, there's no reason why a developer couldn't come in there, do a complete reconstruction of that, evict everybody, and then have it be much higher cost housing. And we do weigh the relative cost and benefits, but our objective there is to really preserve what is there as affordable housing permanently. But I see your larger point. If I may add to that is that
 The problem that I have in buying existing units is that as the government, local investors, when they see the government coming in on a property, they tend to back up a little bit because normally the government can come in and push that price up higher. So the private investor kind of shies away. And when that happens, you're beginning to get investment dollars that could have gone into the city...
 The city itself could be building new, expanding more inventory. What they do with that money now, they take it somewhere else. And when you begin to move their money possibly somewhere else, it can end up leaving the state. And that's going to be a big disaster in my opinion. It will drive up unit prices, won't expand the property tax base, and in my opinion, the investors will come back and have to begin raising their rents possibly.
 It's not the way we want to go. We want to have more units created, more supply, more jobs created, and keep the money in the local economy. Mayor, thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Mayor, I just want to make one observation. There are circumstances where our ability to acquire an existing development prevents mass displacement.
 And I think the missing piece here is that out-of-state REITs are coming in, buying up these properties for investment purposes, doing modest improvements, jacking up the rents, and evicting everybody. So, I mean, in terms of maintaining neighborhood stability, I can't think of a more important goal for our spending. Yeah, and as you know, Commissioner Fish, I agree with you completely on that point. Any further comments, please call the roll.
 Fritz? I think Michael Bonica's statement, getting it right matters and staying in the fight matters. That's all about what we're doing here. And I don't think we've let the perfect be the enemy of the good in any of this stuff. And still the challenge has been staying in the fight. And I know that everybody on the council is committed to doing that despite or...
 Not because of the fact that people keep coming and telling us to. We don't need anybody to tell us to. It's very obvious that we all need to do more, not just the council, but everybody in our community needs to be addressing this problem. I also appreciate the fact that it was pointed out yet again that it is the federal government's responsibility and that people can move here and people become homeless here.
 or are at danger of losing their housing because of factors that are beyond the control of the city council. And I believe we all need to accept that it's not just the politicians who are making the decisions that result in this huge need or the way to fix it. So thank you very much for everybody who's willing to stay in the fight for as long as it takes. Bye.
 I can't think of a better partner than Home Forward, so I enthusiastically support this. The city of Los Angeles has embarked on a multibillion-dollar campaign to address homelessness, and the most recent numbers are completely discouraging. They've had a spike in homelessness because this problem is not just about housing. It's about poverty. It's about mental health. It's about addiction. It's about a whole host of things. We cannot solve this problem alone.
 alone, the President's budget, which would result in a 20 percent cut to HUD, and eliminate all the tools that we use for affordable housing development, homes, CDBG, and other things. Does that, however, have money made available for the HUD, for the gentleman who's in charge of HUD, Secretary? And he has proposed opening facilities in distressed neighborhoods in the country where he would teach low-income people character. Okay.
 And I think we need a little less character building and a little more investment in affordable housing if we're going to solve this crisis. I just cannot believe it. George Orwell would be turning in his grave if he was listening to this discussion. I appreciate the discussion and the partnership. Aye. Eudaly? Well, thank you to the Housing Bureau and to Home Forward. And you're right, Michael, it never feels like enough. But today we are making a couple small, vital advances. Aye. Thank you.
 Well, I'm going to build on Commissioner Fish's commentary. I'd be turning in my grave if I were dead. I'm not, fortunately. It is correct what has been said, that we have limited tools here at the local level, and we have to use them as wisely as we can.
 And we obviously were given this housing bond by the voters in this community, and we're exercising great diligence in terms of how we deliver on the promises around that housing bond. And I'm glad to see that we're continuing to move forward, uh,
 and responsibly in terms of how we deploy those resources. I mentioned the constitutional amendment up front. That's a little bit arcane, but it's very important in terms of getting the dollars to go as far as they can by partnering both with nonprofits and private sector partners. And that's not only important to the city of Portland and the metro region. That is a statewide issue, and I hope
 everybody will continue to support that. Good work on this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. We have a second reading, number 197.
 Authorize a contract with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. in the amount of $749,190 for the North Willamette Boulevard Bridge Main Replacement Project. Colleagues, this is an issue that's already been brought to the council. We've heard a presentation. We've taken public testimony. It is a second reading, so Carla, please call the roll. Fritz?
 Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call item number 198. Authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Downtown I-405 Pedestrian Safety and Operational Improvement Project
 through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Colleagues, Commissioner Saltzman had given me a heads up that he would have to be out of the chamber, but he told me to please go ahead and have the presentation on this item. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Marty Maloney with the Puyallup Right-of-Way. Somebody put a quarter in the meter, please. Thank you. All right.
 Agenda item 198 is to authorize eminent domain authority as well as to offer just compensation for needed permanent and temporary rights associated with the downtown I-405 pedestrian safety and operational improvement project. The property rights in question are needed for completion of various operational and roadway improvements including curb ramps, crosswalks, and signal upgrades.
 I would like to add that all affected property owners have been invited to attend this reading of the agenda item. And I'd be happy to answer any questions Council may have at this time. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Matt. Did you get any response at all from the property owners? I spoke to all of them and everybody was pretty much in favor of the project. Okay. Thank you. Any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Items number 199 and 200, can you read them both? They're both going to be moved. Hmm.
 199, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements in the Northeast 57th Avenue and Killingsmore Street local improvement district. At the request of Commissioner Saltzman, item 199 is being moved to March 7th. Could you please read item 200? Okay.
 Adopt the allocation methodology for the local transportation infrastructure charge, establish a maximum fee, amend charge required code, and direct staff to develop additional components of Neighborhood Streets Program. And again, at the request of Commissioner Saltzman, this item is also being moved. Mayor, can we take item 202 out of sequence just for the vote? I shared before you didn't because I can't vote on that.
 So I was going to just leave. I suppose I could leave. If you could leave, I've got to take a call, and I won't be here for the other one. Okay. Thanks, Commissioner. Item number 202, please. 202, update auditor code to conform to May 2017 charter amendments that protect the auditor's independence and add a duty.
 amend auditor code following passage of new state law that preserves city's privilege when information is disclosed to auditor for the purposes of an audit or investigation. Colleagues, this is a second reading. There has already been a presentation to the City Council. There has already been public testimony on this item. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call item 201.
 We don't have a quorum. Oh, here she comes. Okay. Ah, yes, we do. Yes, we do. Thank you. 201, assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I just have to note that I did view several of the longer hearings from last week. I did not view that item that I just left for, so I didn't feel competent to vote on it. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I am Sherry Matias from the auditor's office. Thank you. I'm Mike Zeller. I'm an inspector with Sidewalks Department at Maintenance Operations. Thanks, Mike. And I'm Ryan Hoyt, Sidewalk Inspector for PBOT. Thanks, Ryan. Thanks for being here. This ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city. Any remonstrances have been pulled from this assessment and are not in this ordinance. Is that your presentation? Yes.
 That's it. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed. Oh, looks like somebody wants to speak. Very good. Come on up, sir. Sorry, didn't hear a lot of the lead. My name is Kyle Bell. I live on the corner of 60th and Division. The reason I'm here is because my property was assessed and they went through sort of a long strip of sidewalk and determined that it was not safe.
 I disagreed. I had them sort of come out and re-look at it. It seemed like the system, the reason I wanted to come by, because it feels like the system is sort of not equal and balanced or somewhat flawed. There's a half-inch parameter that's given on any sidewalk, whether it's a crack, raised, lowered, and...
 There are portions of my sidewalk that may have fit into that category. It didn't feel like as expansive as what they were wanting to sort of make it out to be. I wasn't aware of the digital part of presentation, so I actually took real photographs to show. Hold up. I don't know if that can be seen or if it can be, is it possible to pass these up? Oh, you can pass them up? Thank you.
 This was before the work was done. There are a lot of leaves on it, and I apologize for that. I felt like the person... This was literally moments before they cut out my sidewalk. And at the time that those pictures were taken, I felt like they were more likely to slip on a leaf than trip on a crack in my sidewalk. I'm not putting into question anyone that's... how they're doing their job. I felt like everyone that I had a chance to talk with...
 Sherry Matias wrote to me and was super nice. Everybody's great. They're an incredible group of people. It's just hard from a citizen's perspective. I decided to take a walk down my street, and so I went basically two properties down. The first property is Courtyard Plaza. It's a retirement center.
 And while their sidewalks actually literally do have bumps that you can, or cracks that you can trip on, it wasn't until I got to the second property after my property, which is the Mount Tabor Bureau of Parks, where there is a giant, the sidewalk is like this high. I took a picture of it, and I actually laid a quarter in front of it to show how high the property, nearly adjacent to mine, is located.
 probably over an inch high. And then within their driveway is also significant cracks. I just took a picture with my foot next to the cracks to show kind of literally the Parks Bureau. Is that the one that's got preschool in it right now? It's the one what? That has a preschool in it right now. A preschool in the... I don't know if there's a preschool in there, no. It's along Division, if you were to walk up Division from the corner. Okay, so it could be that we're going to... If it's the one that's...
 On division. I think that's the one that we've got under redevelopment, so it will get fixed. It's by the maintenance yard? It's not tagged out. You know, they haven't marked it. I know they go around and they mark these things well in advance that they're going to take care of. Yeah, but they're going to do the whole site. That's the issue. Yeah.
 Because it's at the maintenance yards, right? It is. Yeah, so the whole of the maintenance yards is getting redone, and so it will be redone as part of that project. It isn't even specifically that. As soon as you just walk in any direction, in virtually any neighborhood in southeast Portland, the sidewalks all look the same. Some of them have cracks. There are ones that are major tripping hazards, and there's ones that just simply aren't hazardous to anyone's health, including skateboards. Okay.
 In addition to that, there was a piece of sidewalk that was just off to the side. It was literally just a piece of concrete that was in the grass strip that they removed because they said it couldn't be there in the grass strip anymore. And then I had to stop them. The concrete guys were just up the street. It was labeled as ready to pour, and they were literally just going to pour a new piece of concrete after they had removed it right back in the hole where they had just taken it out, and I had been told that it was supposed to be backfilled with dirt and grass.
 And it just kind of threw into question the whole process. It felt like people just sort of weren't talking. They had the measurements completely wrong. I actually brought a copy of what they had written down as the measurements for various portions of this entire job. It goes beyond my property lines, which is clearly visible even by just the fence. You can see that on both ends, they've gone into the neighboring property and sent the bill to me. This whole bill is like a $7,000 bill. I wouldn't normally come down to the city to...
 talk about really much of anything but this felt like a seven thousand dollar bill for something i felt was a completely functional sidewalk that was not a hazard my first impression was maybe it was because of the retirement center was the concern but then after looking around the rest of the neighborhood it it became more evident that that wasn't a concern i it i'm not saying that i'm being targeted but it just felt really weird to really focus on this one corner given
 Any other sidewalk. Literally across the street. Like you just look across the street. There's every sidewalk. I'm like obsessive with sidewalks now. So I like even walked around this building and saw like cracks. There's chips on the little corner. That is apparently a thing. You can't have a little chip on a corner. It just all has... This has become the process that I've had to come to now to sort of bring it to the city council, mayor. Yeah.
 I don't know where to go from here. Other than I would love to walk around the neighborhood with somebody and just show them kind of the process. Because it feels like you're being policed by people that are doing a good job. They're good people. They're communicative.
 But it's the measurement at which they decide this needs to be fixed, this one we're going to pass on. And this idea that a person can call in, and that's kind of the determination. If a citizen calls and then they make a complaint, then that determines, like, oh, that has to get fixed. And after that, they look at the rest of the area.
 So that is how it works, unfortunately. But, you know, since the Transportation Commissioner is not here, I wonder if we could defer this until next week. Yeah, I want to thank you for coming in, and you're telling a story that's very familiar to me. I'll tell you when I bought my house, we got tagged on the sidewalk, and we had to replace it. And I was willing to do that because the sidewalk was in pretty bad shape. Mm-hmm.
 But I could tell the reason the sidewalk was in bad shape is because there's a large tree root going right underneath the sidewalk. Yes. And my question at the time was, okay, I want to be a good citizen. I want to do what I'm obligated to do. But if I rebuild this and the tree root is still there, the same problem is going to continue to exist. Right.
 And then we sort of ran into a conflict between the tree and the sidewalk. And so here I am less than a dozen years later, and the sidewalk is exactly the same way as it was when I was originally tagged.
 And I say that publicly knowing I'll probably get tagged again, which is the rule. But I want you to at least understand, I do hear what you're saying, and I know that people want to make sure that if there is enforcement, it is equitable enforcement as opposed to selective enforcement. And so I hear that. I agree with the Commissioner. It might behoove us to hold off.
 on a final vote on this and have that conversation with Commissioner Saltzman and his team and see if there isn't some more information that we can glean from that conversation. I do want to thank you for coming. I want to thank you for taking the time to take the photos that help illustrate your narrative as well. That's very useful for me personally. Commissioner Fritz? Yes.
 And if you could stop by Commissioner Saltzman's office, I would imagine his staff would be wanting to talk with you. So if he could borrow the photographs back, Carlos, so that he could show them to Commissioner Saltzman. So I'm sorry to mention this at the length. I just noticed this is actually not brought by Commissioner Saltzman. This is brought by the city auditor.
 But that's because they've done the assessment. But the underlying issue is what standards does the sidewalk get fixed to? And that, I believe, would be transportation. Does the auditor have any objection if we hold this off for a vote? You have to come to the...
 We're not going to vote on it today anyway. It's a first reading, so we're going to go to second reading, and maybe we can get the information between now and the second reading. We can remove this property from the ordinance, and it's recommended that we go ahead and pass the others to second reading. But we can take this property out and send it back to sidewalks and let them recommend, make a determination. Okay. Gentleman, is that okay with you?
 Great. And does that require a formal amendment for us to do that? To remove the property? I believe so, yes. Could you give us the address of your property, please, sir? 2370 Southeast 60th. So I move that we remove 2370 Southeast 60th from this assessment. We have a motion. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Call the roll on the motion.
 Fritz. And this is not to say you won't have to pay eventually anyway, but I do think that you've raised some really good issues that I would like answers to as well. And I hope you'll follow up with Commissioner Saltzman. Eudalee. Hi. Well,
 Wheeler. I want to clarify, just for the record, this isn't taking you off the hook. I understand. But this is giving us an opportunity to better dig into your particular situation. I vote aye on the amendment. Is there anything else before I move this?
 Is there any public testimony on this issue? Just have one follow-up. Oh, I'm sorry. Just I wanted to clarify, I don't have any trees like you did. There is literally, if you look at those big pictures, there is no tree. There's a lot of leaves from neighboring trees down the street, but it's a unique situation. It's also noteworthy that it's the little pump house that's on the corner of 60th and Division. It's the old reservoir pump station. It also happens to be made of concrete, which...
 It was just interesting. It just seems sort of slightly ironic to me that it's $7,000 worth of concrete. I would love to put that more into historic preservation, which I think is still an important thing of that little building if you ever drive down 60th and look over there. Thank you, sir. Is there any public testimony, Carla? It was Mr. .. That was it. OK, very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. And with that, unless I missed something,
 We are adjourned. Do you have the photographs? I gave them back to Carla. So if you could get the photographs from Carla, borrow them, take them to Commissioner Saltsman, but then they need to go back to him. Or ask Commissioner Saltsman and staff to give them back. Thank you very much. That was really interesting and helpful.
 They're hurting their pockets. Well, just totally. What I'm going to say to them is, if we find a possibility that's suitable for this, because we didn't get to the housing bureau and the joint office, we just actually get to go on now. I'm not managing it. It went four weeks. Yeah. Yeah. I had to take my sweater off. In England, it's so long that, you know, you just put a sweater on. What was your trade? Yeah, it's very good. Glad to hear that. So I'm hoping.
 Thank you.
 I was so relaxed. I didn't worry about City Hall at all. I know. I said, well, you sold me on this cruise thing. I expected to hate it, and I really liked it. Well, you could go to Darkest Leaves in the middle of February, and you'd have the same effect. I got back today to him and he told me about the protests. I'm all for bleak, lonely landscapes. Nantucket Island in the winter is one of my favorites. Oh, is that right? That's where you stay. Oh, it's still a little bit. Okay, that's perfect. Thank you.
 very good Carly are you ready yes
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session on February 28, 2018, of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of the testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. Thank you.
 After being injected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Well done. Carla, could you please read the first item for today? Yes. Item 203, accept the report, a plan for preserving and expanding affordable art space in Portland, and instruct Bureau staff to examine the recommendations for adoption. Thank you.
 So, colleagues, before I send this over to Commissioner Fish, I just want to state that we're delighted to have people here today to testify on this resolution. It is a very important resolution, and I don't want anybody to...
 believe otherwise. However, I also want to acknowledge that we have the relocation ordinance coming up after this, and that is going to engender a lot of public testimony. So we have an hour reserved for this item, so I would like people, depending upon how many people we have signed up to testify on this resolution, I'd like you to start thinking about how you could get your talking points into two minutes instead of three while the presentation is unfolding.
 And thank you for your understanding on that. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. I'm really excited to be here today and to be part of a council that's going to make a bold and dramatic statement about the value of arts in our community. In the five weeks since we held a work session on our recommendations about affordable creative spaces, we have received an enormous amount of support and requests from the community.
 My office has put together a change memo that has been circulated to each of the offices, council offices, and there are copies available for the public here as well. I'm going to turn it over to Jamie Dunphy on my team to walk us through what's in the memo. And we have a couple of panels. We'll take some testimony. And then it's my hope that we will vote on the resolution. Jamie? Thank you, Commissioner. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Jamie Dunphy. I'm a Senior Policy Director for Commissioner Nick Fish. Thank you.
 As has been said, we have a very full house this afternoon with people who are far more interesting to hear from than me, so I'm going to be very brief. Included in your packets in front of you is a copy of a change memo from Commissioner Fish that reflects the important feedback we've received since our work session on January 19th. This memo clarifies the intent of certain recommendations and gives instruction to city staff to begin implementation.
 Today's resolution is asking you to do two separate actions. First, you'll be formally accepting the report that is before you.
 This report remains unchanged since you last saw it in January. Since these recommendations were agreed upon by internal and external stakeholders who were willing to put their names on it, our intent is to honor that endorsement and leave the report unchanged. So the second part of your action this afternoon will be to approve the recommendations in the change memo and in the resolution which pertain to how these will be implemented and which items will not be pursued at this time.
 The first step on all of these recommendations is to have city staff work directly with the offices of their respective commissioners in charge to review and begin working on any applicable recommendations. The second is that when a recommendation is ready for implementation, it's brought back to city council on the regular agenda for approval. This includes programmatic changes, administrative rules, or changes to city code.
 The remaining nine steps outlined in the change memo are intended to clarify either the intent of a recommendation or correct a technical aspect about how implementation will be more effective. Commissioner Fritz, based on your feedback, I'd like to point out that we are not going to be pursuing recommendation number nine, which was the idea around exempting creative space from FAR or height. It's never my intent to have a city commissioner run from the room. Thank you.
 And lastly, I'd like to make it explicitly clear that this report serves as ideal recommendations taken in a vacuum. In a perfect world, these recommendations could be implemented as written, but we fully recognize that that's not realistic and that each of these recommendations will need to be tailored to fit into existing bureaus and programs throughout the city. Our intention is to remain flexible, working toward a common goal with the details to be worked out by bureau staff, city council, and the general public.
 For example, within the Bureau of Development Services, there's a clear need for a concierge service for a range of permit seekers, from small businesses to nonprofits and, yes, artists. We want to be intentional about supporting each of these groups with scarce public dollars. So Commissioner Udaly's plan to create a small business liaison that also serves arts groups is considered an enormous win in this effort.
 We'll be looking for opportunities beyond the recommendations in this report that work toward the same goal. So if anyone in the public has ideas that fit this framework, please reach out. And lastly, I'd like to thank my City Hall colleagues, Pollyann Faith Burge, Lisa Taylor, Amira Streeter, and Jennifer Arguinzoni for your partnership on this effort. And thank you, City Council, for acknowledging these challenges that our community is facing and for working to find solutions.
 This afternoon, I have three panels of invited testimony and a very full room filled with enthusiastic art supporters, so this will be the conclusion of my presentation.
 I'd like to invite our first panel of testimony. It's Subha. Subha, I can't pronounce your last name. I'm sorry. Ghanasan. Ghanasan. The city's new creative laureate. Brian Rogers, executive director from the Oregon Arts Commission. And Jeff Hawthorne, interim executive director at RAC. They'll be followed by Ross McKean of the Oregon Children's Theater, who will be reading testimony from Stan Pankin, who was on our panel of external stakeholders.
 Stan is also the former chair of the Arts Oversight Committee, and this council proclaimed February 15, 2017 as Stan Penken Day in Portland. Andre Middleton, the executive director of Friends of Noise, and another member of our external stakeholder group for this report. And the third person on the second panel is Charlene Zydel of the Zydel Corporation. And our last panel will be Damaris Webb, co-founder of the Van Port Mosaic Festival, and Carlos Chavez, the executive director of Morpheus Youth Projects.
 Thank you very much, Jamie. Thanks for all your great work. Let's welcome the first panel up. And colleagues, as they're getting seated, Subha, our creative laureate, I think is off to a great start. She already has her own Facebook page. She's already organized her own festival with one of our key nonprofit partners. What's left to do this year? I mean, congratulations on all the work you've done and you will do. And thank you all for joining us. Jeff, you want to kick us off? Sure. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, City Commissioners. My name is Jeff Hawthorne. I am the Interim Executive Director for the Regional Arts and Culture Council, your stewards for the city's investments in the arts. I want to start briefly by saying what a pleasure it has been to work with Jamie Dunphy, Pollyann Burge, Amira Streeter, Jennifer Arguinzoni, and Lisa Taylor from your staffs. They are truly fantastic, and I really appreciate their collaborative spirit in this process. Thank you.
 It has been challenging for us at RAC to listen to the plight of artists and arts organizations over the years, with precious few resources to respond to a growing emergency. Art spaces are disappearing in front of our very eyes, artists are being priced out of their neighborhoods, and creatives are struggling to live in a city that they helped define. Thanks to them, Portland enjoys a strong reputation as a center of creativity and innovation.
 In early 2017, we all agreed that the city itself was in the best position to take the lead and collaborate with bureaus to identify changes that can make a real difference for artists who struggle to remain in Portland. We view this report as a wonderful start with some great recommendations that we stand ready to implement with you in the months and years ahead.
 From our point of view, low-hanging fruit includes the creation of an online searchable database of art spaces because RAC conducted a comprehensive venues inventory in 2010, and local arts advocates have already updated that open-source inventory and built a starter database in partnership with Fractured Atlas out of New York.
 With adequate funding, RAC could work with them and the city's IT department to expand this database, promote it to local artists, and keep it up to date.
 We also support greater intentionality in decoupling percent for art projects from the originating construction site so as to create more public art in East Portland and other underserved neighborhoods in the city. This is something that RACS has already started doing, but I think it's a very good idea to codify this as a deliberate strategy. Thank you.
 We also applaud Commissioner Udaly for reinstating a concierge at BDS. And the arts community will be encouraged to hear that several city bureaus are already starting to work to revamp their permitting processes to work better for everyone in Portland. We love to talk about filling empty spaces with artists temporarily.
 and we'd love to take this conversation to the next level by partnering with you and Prosper Portland to acquire buildings that could be held permanently as flexible spaces for ongoing arts programming, like they do in Chicago. Going forward, RAC is well-positioned to convene the arts community and continue the conversation about what it means to live and make a living in the arts in Portland.
 We will collect even more good ideas in the months ahead and will remain in close contact with you and Commissioner Fish to share other smart approaches and promising practices. But let's be clear, a lot of the hard work is still to come. And some of these solutions will require investment. In the meantime, RAC intends to hold the line by supporting artists through grants, public art commissions, professional development opportunities, and more.
 I'd also like to remind you that at one time, the city used to invest $200,000 a year to help RAC respond to special emergencies as they arise. For example, helping an arts organization get back on its feet when it loses its facility to development, flood, or fire. Should you ever want to reinvest in something like that again, you know where to find us.
 Commissioner Fish, thank you so much for your leadership on this and for being our liaison to the Regional Arts and Culture Council. And I appreciate all of you for having this conversation with the arts community today. I also appreciate your understanding that Portland would not be Portland without the artists and creatives who inhabit this special place. Artists help power our economy, enhance our children's education, and connect us to a more equitable future.
 Local artists are a vital resource for solving very real problems here at the city, and we rely on them to keep Portland healthy and whole. For all of these reasons, I recommend that you accept this report and work with us at RAC to pursue the recommendations within. Thank you. Jeff, I want to also publicly acknowledge that Eloise Damrosch is with us, your predecessor, longtime executive director at RAC. Eloise, thank you for being here today.
 And, Jeff, you have done an outstanding job as the interim executive director, and we haven't missed a beat. So thank you for your service. Thank you. Subha. Good afternoon, Mayor, commissioners, and all present at City Council. Thank you for providing much-needed visibility for the artistic and creative community of Portland, a community that relentlessly continues to serve as a key factor in our city for tourism, relocation, economic growth, and cultural vibrance. Thank you.
 I'm an artist, arts administrator, instigator, activist, woman of color, recent immigrant, and currently Creative Laureate of Portland. And I would like to offer my thoughts on four of the ideas recommended in the document. Much of my statement is a result of many conversations I have had with artists and art makers. The population that this affordable arts-based document is ultimately seeking to serve.
 I'll start with point number 18, or idea 18, culturally specific creative space development. This is very much in alignment with what diverse, multicultural, professional artists are seeking in this city. More creative spaces where artists of color can thrive and make work on their terms and elevate their stories. Idea six, creativity.
 Explore options to incentivize creative space landlords. This is a truly popular idea as this creates a sense of possible home for artists and art makers. The concern of course is length of lease, conditions of the space. There's also a question of the type of art that gets space through this idea.
 Dancers and theater artists typically need more space than musicians and 2D or 3D artists. So more square footage is needed for certain artistic practices. How will the city help provide equitable incentives so that all artistic forms can benefit from this idea? Thank you.
 Idea number three, creative space certification. It's interesting to artists, especially newcomers, who see this as a list that introduces them to the artscape of the city. The questions raised are about criteria for space certification and if certification could create a side effect of hierarchy in the venue landscape of Portland and if that could lead to loss of revenue for non-certified venues.
 And lastly, idea number one, concierge at City Hall. Artists and art makers want to be assured that this paid position at the city level is for someone who will advocate and go to bat for them. Someone who knows what it means to be an independent artist trying to make a living in this city. Someone empowered to help cut the red tape.
 What artists are afraid of is someone who will pull out a map that shows all the stops to the fire marshal, noise ordinance, PDC, OLCC, etc., etc. But we want someone who can streamline bureau needs and advocate for artists.
 One point that is outside of the current recommendations comes specifically from the disability arts community. There's concern that there's a lack of language around art spaces that are intersectional and accessible. In particular, it was encouraged for the document to mention ADA Title I or II. Title I addresses accessible places for performers and artists, and Title II addresses access for audiences and public.
 My experience as an artist and arts administrator in Portland for the last 10 years is that there are organizations, venue managers, artistic directors, and artists who have been on a shoestring budget creating some version of several of the recommendations proposed in this document. While the city is embarking on implementing new programming,
 I hope that the city can provide visibility for all these different individuals and entities who have been tirelessly doing the work thus far in each of their communities to the best of their ability. Recognition and fiscal assistance from granting entities connected to the city are also great ways to honor the work that has been done thus far.
 As the Creative Laureate, I'm happy to receive information from our city's artists and arts organizations so that I can bring a comprehensive list to the city. I'm committed to make sure that the city that works can be more creative as the city that works together. Super well said. Could you remind us where we can find you on Facebook? Creative Laureate of Portland, but I even now have an email address.
 Even better. Creative.Lauriet at Portland.gov? PortlandOregon.gov. Yeah, I haven't gotten that second part yet. Creative.Lauriet at PortlandOregon.gov. Thank you. Bravo. Thank you very much. And now we're honored to turn to Brian Rogers, the Executive Director of the Oregon Arts Commission. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and Mayor and the rest of the commission. For the record, my name is Brian Rogers, and I'm the Executive Director of the Oregon Arts Commission and the Oregon Cultural Trust Commission.
 We're two state agencies that are housed within Business Oregon, the state's economic development department, and we fund arts and culture activities all across the state in a number of different programs and services, including operating support, specific projects, and individual artist support. We also block fund every county and federally recognized tribe to make local grants in their community.
 The value and importance Americans have for the creative expression is very high. 82% of Americans believe arts and culture are important to local businesses and the economy. 87% of Americans believe that the arts and culture are important to the quality of life. In a recent American for the Arts, Arts and Economic Impact study, the following data was presented. The impact of the nonprofit arts and cultural industry in Oregon
 is $687 million. 48% of that economic impact comes from Portland, for a total impact of $330 million. Across the state, nonprofit arts and cultural organizations support 22,299 jobs, and 52% of those jobs are in the Portland metro area, for a total FTE support of 11,505 jobs. Thank you.
 Attendance across the state to arts and cultural organizations is around $9.9 million, and 47% of those people, or 4.6 million, attend events in the Portland metro. Attendees spend an average of $23 per person per event, excluding the cost of admission. Thank you.
 The improvement to quality of life is also evident by arts and cultural programs and services, in addition to creating a sense of place through arts organizations, public art projects, events, and festivals, and the presence of artists living and working and presenting their work in a community. We recognize that this density of the creative community encourages other businesses, including restaurants.
 More and more cities and community leaders recognize the economic impact and community well-being and livability the arts and culture provide. Citizens are asking for increased arts and cultural events and support and promotion of the artists. Artists are the core to creative communities or districts.
 often have a difficult time in acquiring space or retaining the space they have. Oftentimes the Soho effect comes into play, where artists and arts organizations are priced out of the very community or neighborhood they help build and make vibrant. And without affordable space, artists and arts organizations have no choice but to leave the very communities they help revitalize and make desirable. Thank you.
 Some communities across the country have taken active measures to ensure that artists and arts organizations are welcomed and have the resources to maintain residents and presence in the community. These communities, just like Portland, know the importance of supporting the creative industry and its growth. For example, the Three River Art District in Asheville, North Carolina, consists of a wide array of artists and working studios and 22 renovated buildings in the former industrial area.
 on a mile-long stretch of the French Broad River. The Paducah, Kentucky Artist Relocation Program attracted working artists of all types to participate in the city's creative energy and reside in the oldest residential neighborhood.
 When the arts were being cut, Paducah fostered an environment where artists and the arts could flourish by offering properties at minimal cost to become part of the true art enclave. Paducah Bank has invested over $30 million in artists restoring their community. Thank you.
 Recently, we have begun the Arts Commission and the Cultural Trust administering the Creative Resource Economic Fund, which is funded by the legislature, and support capital renovation projects around the state. In the current fiscal year, we are administering $4.1 million in state funds for capital construction.
 And in the Portland area, projects this year include the Portland Institute for Contemporary Art, and PICA received a $100,000 grant. And the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, APANO, received a $300,000 grant. Both grants are for their new space renovation, including APANO's ground floor art gallery.
 While this funding and funding like this from other sources is vital, it does not address the ever-expanding need for affordable space for artists and arts organizations. Incentives and direct services are needed to encourage artists and organizations to stay, grow, and continue to make Portland a vibrant city it is.
 This proposal, Affordable Art Space in Portland, provides a very solid platform to address the very real issues facing the city. The proposal provides a very clear outline of 24 ideas, now 23, that will help advance the city's creative community, thereby increasing the livability and growth of the economy. This type of proposal is rare across the country. I applaud the effort and thoughtfulness.
 Thank you for your time and consideration. Brian, thank you very much for joining us. Two things. Thank you for making it so easy to give to the Cultural Trust, and I think the partnership with the Willamette Week Give Guide, Ticket to the Next Level, for those of us who are procrastinators, to give to arts organizations, then it tells you how much you can do as a match. So that's fantastic.
 And thank you for reminding us that overwhelmingly Americans support the arts. You wouldn't know that from the President's proposed budget, which proposes to zero out public funding for the arts. But it's good to be reminded about how robustly we support the arts in this country. Thank you, all three. Colleagues, the next panel is Ross McKean of the Oregon Children's Theater, Andre Middleton, Executive Director of Friends of Noise. Andre, we made appointments this morning to the Noise Oversight Board, so this has a nice little symmetry.
 Their job is to keep the noise down. Your job is to make as much as possible. And we have Charlene Zeidel of the Zeidel Corporation. And we welcome all three of you. Ross, would you like to kick it off? Yes, thank you. For the record, my name is Ross McKean. I'm the Managing Director of Oregon Children's Theater. We're a non-profit organization.
 performing arts company that reaches over 120,000 children and families in any given year. And we're proud of the work we do. I'm actually here today standing in for Stan Penkin, who's a community and arts advocate who you know and who worked on this report as one of the stakeholders. I'm standing in for him. I will watch the time and take away my page of talking about me, which those of you who know me will know what a loss that is for me.
 So let me read Stans, and if I get to the end and have some time, I'll plug a show we're doing. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, in recent years, Portland has grown dramatically as a hub for arts and culture. While it is not New York, Portland has become a vibrant center for artists, theater, dance, music, makers, and much more. The arts speak to the heart and soul of Portland's culture and are something we must nurture and cherish.
 But in this era of rising rents and development focused largely on high-paying tech and creative users and our most affluent residents, we lack affordable artist housing, rehearsal and performance venues, and studio space. Additionally, it is difficult for professionals to develop arts-related careers in our city, so we often lose the rising stars of arts administration to cities such as San Francisco, Chicago, New York, or elsewhere.
 Lastly, there is inadequate acknowledgement of the significant economic impact of arts and culture and of its central role in making Portland attractive to high-quality employers and the next generation of those who will define and shape our amazing city. According to a study by the Urban Land Institute, Portland is at a crossroads, particularly as it regards the evolution and transformation of the Central Eastside Industrial District.
 If our artistic and maker communities are priced out of the central city, we risk losing some of the essential ingredients that enhance the fabric and spirit of our city. Smaller and culturally specific arts groups in particular struggle to find office and performance space as property values grow and as landlords raise rents to unaffordable levels or redevelop their properties for other uses. Portland must protect this vital community.
 Finding ways to preserve and enhance with the many tools and methods available to do so. Public-private partnerships, land banking, community investment trusts, repurposing existing and or surplus assets, development of mixed-use urban projects, integrating subsidized and market rate components in the same project, and creating districts or campuses are all possibilities that must be fully explored.
 Now is the time for our leaders and stakeholders across the city to come together and create a cohesive, ambitious, long-term strategy for securing a place for the artistic and maker communities.
 The 24 ideas for preserving and expanding affordable art space presented today are a much-needed start in recognizing our urgent need to act, and to act quickly. Some of these ideas could be implemented relatively quickly, and others will understandably take some time. Today is the day to get started. Time is running out. Many thanks to Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fish, and Commissioner Udaly for initiating this arts affordability effort, and a most special thanks to Jamie Dunphy for his diligent efforts in leading the charge.
 On behalf of Oregon Children's Theater, I extend an invitation to attend our opening this weekend or any time during our run of a fabulous play called And In This Corner, Cassius Clay. It's a story of a young Cassius Clay before he stepped into his role as Muhammad Ali and his charge for social justice. It's an important and wonderful story, and we're proud to be presenting it. Thank you. Ross, thank you very much. Thank you for being here. Andre Middleton, welcome.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, your fellow city commissioners, and my name is Andre Middleton, and I'm the executive director of Friends of Noise. Friends of Noise was started about two years ago as an art organization with the desire to address the closing of several youth-centered creative spaces in the Portland metro region. Obviously, it's hard to cover the rising cost of rent for these creative age spaces if your revenues can't include alcohol sales.
 We have seen the joy, the sense of accomplishment, the growth of an all-ages community that supports each other whether on stage or off. And thus, our mission has grown to include professional development, youth empowerment, workshops, support navigating the early steps in their entry into the music and entertainment industry.
 We have joined a constellation of stellar youth-focused organizations like MARO, the August Wilson Red Door Project, the Kukatuna Children's African Dance Troupe, Morpheus Youth Project, World Stage Theater, Rock Row Camp for Girls, and D-Humper Underground, just to name a few, that are providing access and instruction in creative self-expression
 and youth community engagement. Yet many of these organizations, as are we, are often space threatened or actively searching for a home within the communities that we serve.
 These organizations are led by people that believe, as we do, as I'm sure many of you do, in the restorative and healing power of the arts. We live in a society and a system that has centered the arts on the privileged few that have had the means to share their stories, their history, and their music through the arts. I was born in New York City, and I can attest firsthand to the impact
 that access to housing and arts and creative spaces can have on a region. From my neighborhood in Brooklyn, it was an hour and a half each way via public transportation to see a show in Manhattan that really told stories that reflected me and my community.
 From my neighborhood in Brooklyn, there were housing projects that stretched for blocks in many directions. They were so focused on providing the minimum requirement for housing that they overlooked and failed to save or create spaces to build the community soul through the arts.
 So as we wrestle with the growth and upheaval in our region, I'd like to add my voice to the chorus of those that are advocating for comprehensive solutions to the issues that we seek to address some of the fundamental facets that make our city livable. No matter what one's income bracket may be.
 Artists like the Resistance Crew, Ashley Williams, Esperanza Spaulding grew up in an art-rich environment that we are at risk of losing. The Nikes, the Ebays, the We Out Here magazines are strengthened by having a diverse pool of homegrown creatives to draw from.
 So I fully support the resolution before City Council today. My many thanks to Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fish, and their staffs for their leadership on this important issue regarding maintaining the livability in our city. Thank you. Thank you very much, Andre. And now up is Charlene Zydel of the Zydel Corporation. And Charlene has not been...
 shy about expressing a vision for bringing arts to the South Waterfront neighborhood, and we're delighted to have you join us. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and distinguished council members. My name is Charlene Zydel, and I am here on behalf of the Zydel family to testify in favor of the city's plan for preserving and expanding affordable art space in Portland.
 We are in complete agreement that the value of art in our city is undeniable. It's core to the fabric of our identity. And further, that we are facing a crisis as artists and art organizations are being priced out of the market. We applaud the council for taking steps to encourage continued conversations and ideas for new, innovative ways to maintain and grow the vibrant, diverse, creative economy that is so important to our city.
 As you know, we have completed the master planning process for the redevelopment of our 33 acres in South Waterfront that has been home to our industrial businesses for the last 90 years. Zydale Yards will be a 5 million square foot mixed-use development consisting of residential, commercial, and retail spaces, as well as 10 acres of public space.
 One of the tenets of our family vision for the redevelopment of this site is the incorporation of arts and culture into the community. Unlike an arts district, which might include shops, galleries, restaurants, and bars, our vision includes the creation of an art ecosystem, which includes every component of the art cycle, from funding to housing to workspace to performance space to visual and literary arts.
 Because of the size of this project and the mixed-use nature of the development, we will have housing, we will have office space, we will have retail space, and we will have outdoor space to accommodate these various needs. Our goal is to have arts baked into the entire development.
 a part of the fabric that's so ingrained that one can't sense where it starts and where it stops. For example, an office building may house an anchor art organization as well as an art collective, a space specifically designed to house multiple nonprofits that have chosen to work together within a single space. The ground floor retail space of an apartment building where artists may choose to live and work
 may be studio spaces operated by an art institution providing classes for its students and the community, but also being available for artists to rent. Conceivably, a portion of the repurposed barge building, located closest to the river, might house a flexible performance venue program 10 to 12 hours a day, with classes, exhibits, poetry readings, dance and theater performances, events, etc.,
 We also see the opportunity to work with OHSU and OMSI in the creation of a world-class 77-acre outdoor walkable sculpture garden connected by the Tilikum Crossing. What an amazing feature this would be for our city. We are deeply engaged in conversations with the arts community, exploring the needs and innovative solutions to meeting these needs.
 We know we need to find a new business model for the arts. We are engaged in conversations with the business community, soliciting their input on how to approach these challenges. We are looking for ways to do things differently. We are extremely inspired and encouraged with the collaborative approach and enthusiasm we are finding amongst the people we are talking to.
 We believe the answers will come through partnerships, collaborations, and a new way of doing business. Our family looks forward to a positive and productive partnership with the city as we move forward on our vision for Zydale Yards. Colleen, thank you very much. Thanks to all three of you for joining us. Colleagues, last but not least, Damaris Webb, co-founder of the Vanport Mosaic Festival, and Carlos Chavez, executive director of the Morpheus Youth Project.
 We're delighted both of you could join us today. Ms. Webb, you want to kick us off? Sure. Hello. Hello. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Damaris Webb, and I am here to testify to City Council in my capacity as co-director of the Vanport Mosaic. We are a community-driven, artist-led nonprofit dedicated to sharing and preserving the underrepresented stories of the Pacific Northwest.
 Our work is that of telling stories with and not about communities. As such, I am required to be a convener. I work with individual artists, city agencies, arts and humanities organizations, and local businesses across multiple communities to bring together sustainable projects that engage the public in learning about local history and policies with an equity lens.
 This way of community building brings me to the intersections between access and equity and arts and activism time and time again. And I believe this is where cultural life grows to be civic life. We've heard today about the importance of Portland's creative economy and how it enriches every aspect of the fabric of our civic lives, attracting newcomers to our city and engaging long-term residents.
 I would like to take this opportunity to also reflect on how a community's identity and experience is tied to specific physical spaces and is impacted by city planning and legislation. When we choose to invest our resources or where we choose to invest our resources is equally important as how we allocate them.
 Historically underrepresented neighborhoods in the North and Northeast, the Jade District and East Portland, have rich and multi-lens perspectives to contribute to the dialogue and diversity of our City of Roses, yet are historically underfunded and lack quality art space where their voices can be heard.
 The city's commitment to equity and inclusion also means access to resources and opportunity. That is why I applaud the council's intention to directly address these inequities. Just as important as the creation of new affordable spaces for artists to live and create work is the importance of preservation of currently existing city arts landmarks.
 The city owns or manages several historic arts and community venues, such as the Interstate Firehouse Cultural Center, whose history as an arts hub, giving shelter and platform to several generations of our city's professional artists of color is indisputable. The value and impact of the city's recent commitment to reopen the doors of this venue to a hoped-for sustainable future cannot be overstated.
 The stories the Vanport Mosaic has engaged in in the past three years have been stories of communities that once thrived in the neighborhoods of North and Northeast Portland. And this year we are excited to offer dozens of free or sliding scale events to the public that shine a light on the impact of the lost city of Vanport.
 the building of the Coliseum, expansion of the freeway, and the failed Emanuel Hospital expansion had on communities in inner north and northeast Portland. Now imagine the irony of not being able to present a screening of Priced Out, a new documentary on the recent gentrification of Albina, because as presenters we had been literally priced out of the neighborhood, or prior affordable venues had been closed.
 Well-meaning individuals may suggest that we share these stories in the already well-established venues of downtown Portland, missing entirely the irony, again, of not being able to have your stories heard in your community. And disregarding the possible benefits of having a multidisciplinary and multicultural festival bring economic activity to your neighborhoods.
 Let us therefore applaud City Council for moving forward to find ways to expand equity and inclusion to all communities via the arts. Thank you. Thank you so much. That was beautiful. Thank you. Mr. Chavez, welcome.
 Thank you. I appreciate the time for you all to let me speak. My name is Carlos Chavez. I run an organization. I'm the executive director of Morpheus Youth Project, an arts and culturally responsive type of programming organization that primarily focuses our work in three strategic areas, one of them in the outer East Portland area,
 and within juvenile justice, the entry-level juvenile justice at Multnomah County Juvenile Detention, as well as at the state level at the Oregon Youth Authority, working with youth that are locked up primarily at McLaren Youth Corrections, the largest facility. I'm speaking on behalf of youth and on many of the marginalized communities who end up in areas, those three strategic areas that I'm speaking of.
 I can attest, like I said, I can attest to the very real struggle that these young people have to have access to arts opportunities and in particular space to host events and to be involved and to have a place to kind of call their own.
 I'm often asked, you know, I do lots of presentations in different, you know, at schools and community events and what have you. And in particular, I work with a lot of youth who are gang affected or gang impacted. And folks are always asking me, you know, what is it that we can do, you know, to help these young people? You know, why is it that they're getting involved? And, you know, the way that I respond to that is that, you know, these young people are attracted to these things because of certain elements.
 there's a certain element of family, a rite of passage, ownership, respect. There's all these different elements that's built into these structures that the youth are attracted to. Well, in order for us to redirect them and get them involved in something that's more positive or more healthy for them is that we need to create something that's equally attractive or more so that they can be involved in something that's meaningful. So the arts is where it's at.
 The arts, you know, encompasses all of the different areas that these young people are wanting and needing. And to have an arts space is a way to provide them with some real opportunity to grow and to become, you know, something much more positive in their communities and to give them some opportunities to work, to learn, to explore, and to express themselves. So I want to...
 The other thing that I wanted to mention is that I would very much like to see diversity represented in this. And I was very pleased to see that these elements that I'm talking about are things that have been mentioned in this resolution. And so I applaud you for that, and I thank you for putting this together. And I look forward to the opportunity for these young people to really have access to these arts-based resources.
 programs and opportunities in their community. So thank you. Thank you both for joining us. So, folks, we're now going to move to some public testimony. If someone has already said something that generally mirrors your view, we would encourage you to be – Commissioner Fritz. I have an amendment. Commissioner. Okay, yep.
 Thank you very much everybody for the presentation and thank you Commissioner Fish for your leadership of this project. When we had the work session I raised some concerns about the proposals, the language in the recommendations about Portland Parks and Recreation. So I just want to clarify that this was the following amendment and it would be added as a second, be it further resolved, right before the one about the Bureau of Development Services concierge service.
 and the proposed amendment would say, be it further resolved, Portland Parks and Recreation will consider ways to integrate recommendations in this report in its long-range planning efforts currently underway to shape future services across the park system. I'm going to second the amendment. Commissioner for its moves, Commissioner Fish seconds. Consider it a friendly amendment. Thank you. And so happily we are...
 at Portland Parks and Recreation looking at. We currently have a Parks 2020 vision plan, which is obviously 2020 is sneaking up on us. So it's really important to look at these things in the context of all 214 properties that Portland Parks and Recreation manages and holds in stewardship for everybody. Thanks to PAC, who is here today and who's been working at Damaris, who I've mentioned about the interstate firehouse. So we are very...
 concerned to make sure that these opportunities are shared equitably across the city, that we have appropriate involvement of cultural communities in making decisions not only about where to have these spaces but who gets to use them. So that's the meaning for that. Commissioner, I don't have a second amendment but I just want to put it on the table there that I think that as we go to implementing these pieces we are going to need to think about how do we encourage
 individuals and groups to move out of spaces when they become successful. I know that we found this with affordable housing, that we don't necessarily have appropriate checks and balances so that once an organization is established and thriving, there needs to be an incentive to them to move somewhere so that the next generation of new makers and...
 artists can move into that property. And so I think throughout the recommendations, that will happen through the implementation phase. Just wanted to put that on the record. Thank you. We consider this a friendly amendment, Mayor, but let's take a vote. We can take the testimony first, if you like. It's your call. Either way. Yeah, I always like to hear testimony. So, Carlo, we have a bunch of people signed up. We have...
 about a four-hour hearing to follow, so I would ask you to be as brief as possible. State your support. I don't want to take the drama out of the room, but we do have the votes to adopt the resolution. So give us a perspective maybe you haven't heard, and then, Carla, let's start with the first three. Are we going with three minutes or two? Two minutes. The first three will be Mia O'Connor, Janessa Narciso, and we're going to go with Josh Hecht. There are one. Oh. The two of us. Okay.
 Welcome. Why don't you all three come forward? Why don't you kick us off, please? My name is Mia O'Connor-Smith. My name is Victoria Janessa Narciso. We are here today representing an entire community of black and brown artists through our collective Deep Underground. It is critical for us to be here today because any plan for accessible and affordable art space in Portland
 should include us. When I say us, I mean the black and brown artists of Portland. Our genesis of work that includes speaking to formal art and educational institutions such as Reed College, Lewis and Clark, Disjecta, the Portland Art Museum, and PICA began in a place we call The Lost House. The Lost House is a house in Northeast Portland that we started, dug in. In truth, it's run down, unloved by the landlord, but we managed to give it life.
 Our ideas as a collective were cultivated by a space that we were able to define for ourselves. Creative leadership and having autonomy and agency is crucial to making art. Lost House became all of the things that we didn't or couldn't have access to, like a traditional art gallery, art museum, or music venue. The impact of our art lived to its full potential because we had full creative control.
 Murals were up in the house everywhere. We would use the living room as an art gallery. We used the living room to screen films. If you walked down into the basement any day, there could be an open mic, film screenings, dance parties, jam sessions. However, there is irony in the fact that we are losing this house.
 Lost House is being torn down and replaced with an unaffordable housing development. A space that is not welcoming to our community. A space that would never be available or welcoming to the people that live there now. But the Lost House is just a place. Places can be torn down as they are. Doug is the people and the people are resilient.
 And Doug is evidence of that resilience. We share this story with you because the Lost House is symbolic of the need that is not being met for affordable art spaces. It is especially not being met for artists of color. It is symbolic of artists being displaced from a part of the city that is historically black and rapidly being gentrified. It is symbolic of a place that was valuable for artists because it belonged to them.
 If this is a plan that makes spaces affordable and accessible to artists, then we need access to those spaces. Not only that, we need to be a part of the design and plans of that space. How are your offices getting this information into the hands of the artists? We would have never found out about this opportunity today if it weren't for PICA. So much of our community can't be here today because this meeting is held at 2 o'clock in the afternoon on a work day.
 If your goal is to make Portland accessible and affordable to people who choose to live here, what about the people who never left? What about those of us who can't afford to leave? The Portland art world and creative economy is inaccessible. It is not representative of the art or the creatives in this city.
 So we want to know, how will you ensure artists of color are prioritized? How are you taking into consideration that many of the areas that have been economically developed are historically black neighborhoods? The idea of a creative economy, who does it actually benefit? What do you even mean by affordable? Okay.
 This is clearly a first step for City Council and what will be a long process that will not be complete or successful unless it is inclusive of artists themselves, black and brown artists, poor artists, and especially artists that don't fit the mold of your mainstream Portland art world. Reparations. Thank you both very much. Very powerful. Welcome, sir.
 Good afternoon. I'm sorry. I can't let that go. And, by the way, thank you for the creative presentation. And, Carla, thank you for being quick to adapt to that. You came in here and you laid it down, and I appreciate that. And you raised a very valid point, and it's one we actually have had a chance to talk about fairly recently. You asked, how do we insure?
 access. And I think, this is just my TED talking here, I believe it's through the leverage that we exert in our partnership with the arts and culture communities here. We're not just supportive
 through words, we actually are supportive through financial support of the arts in the community, predominantly through the Regional Arts and Culture Council, to which we contribute millions every year. But we also have institutions of arts and culture come before this council and ask for things from time to time. And you are right both about your comments about historical exclusion –
 from those conversations. And you are right that this group here, we're not solely accountable for the arts and the culture community, but we definitely have some power and influence in that community. And you are right to raise the question overtly. So I just want to say, great.
 Thank you for being here. I appreciate it. Thank you. I'm not sure you mentioned your name for the record. Would you mind doing that? Victoria Janessa Narciso. You did. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you both. Commissioner Fritz. And I would just suggest that Jamie Dunphy, who's standing over here, if you could make sure he has your contact information, because not only are you here, you heard through PICA, you know people. You know who else needs to be involved. And as you said, it's going to be all about the implementation and you being involved. Thank you.
 perhaps you two specifically, but also the people that you're representing here today. So thank you so much. Carlo, in addition to holding our testifiers to two minutes, I'm going to start holding the mayor to ten seconds in his responses. Welcome, sir.
 Thanks. Good afternoon. My name is Josh Hecht. I'm the Artistic Director of Profile Theatre. Now in our 21st season, Profile Theatre is one of the oldest continuously running theatres in the state. We have a unique mission. We center an entire season around a single playwright whose vision broadens our perspective on the world and deepens our collective compassion.
 Among our awards are the American Theatre Wing's New National Theatre Company Award, designed to bring national attention to, quote, the most inspiring and innovative theatre companies on our national landscape, end quote, and two awards from Age and Gender Equity in the Arts for our leadership in equity and diversity. In 2016, we launched our Diversity and Inclusion Initiative, a three-year commitment to producing only the works of women and people of color.
 In addition to mounting four productions each season of work by some of our most important national playwrights, we also bring these writers to Portland for one-of-a-kind public events. We have a deep commitment to community building through our Community Profile Program, which last year engaged local military veterans and their families, and this year engages people living with chronic illness and their families, mentoring them in a writing practice to reflect upon and share their experiences.
 The program is 100% free and has been called a life changer by one participant. We do all of this on an annual operating budget of less than $600,000. For a theater company of this size, that means we are always on the edge. Every dollar has a dozen uses and we count every penny.
 For the last five years, we've made our home as a company in residence at Artist Repertory Theater, where we get performance space, rehearsal space, year-round office space, and community space at a deep subsidy. As you no doubt know, Artist Rep is selling half of the building, and while their leadership and I are hopeful we'll continue a long-term partnership, the demolition and renovation will mean that for a minimum of two years, we will need to find another home for all of our space.
 Two years is a lifetime for a non-profit theater company and is nothing less than an existential threat for us. Portland's arts community draws talent from across the country, and in turn the art we create gives this city a cultural depth that rivals cities two or three times our size. It's what makes this city one of the fastest growing in the country. We cannot take it for granted. Arts have never survived on the open market, and we ask that you please adopt these recommendations in the report written by Commissioners Fish and E. Daly. Thank you very much.
 Next three, please. The group from PICA looks like Roya, Sophie, and Van. And just a reminder, just name for the record. We don't need your address. The yellow light goes on with 30 seconds. When the red light comes on, please stop talking. Thank you. Because I don't like being mic'd, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for holding this session. I'm Roya Amir Soleimani. My name is Van Pham. And I'm Sophie Mayhook. We're all from PICA. Welcome. Thank you.
 It's no mystery that most of our city's artists and art organizations are struggling as the cost of living and operating in Portland increases. A struggle even more pronounced for black, brown, indigenous, POC artists, queer and trans, disabled, poor, unhoused, and immigrant artists.
 We appreciate that the City Council recognizes the urgency of the situation and is initiating a conversation at the municipal level about how to address the lack of affordable, accessible space for artists and organizations because art institutions and artists cannot solve this problem alone. We need direct financial investment, subsidy, and advocacy from the city as well as a voice at the table.
 Founded in 1995, PICA for many years operated on a pop-up basis throughout the central city. But in recent years, that model has become unsustainable in a developing Portland. In the last five years, we housed our offices in a flex space downtown that would have become impossible for us to afford after the end of our lease. And we would have been desperately looking for a new home like so many other local art nonprofits and artist-run spaces.
 As some of you know, if not for a 16,000 square foot warehouse at Northeast Hancock and Williams that we were generously leased rent-free for the next 20 years by a visionary local philanthropist, we might too be homeless, literally. This building is a gift to PICA.
 And in a few short months, we've activated it with countless programs and people. But in a historically black neighborhood, deeply impacted by gentrification, and in a city that lacks enough affordable, accessible, and welcoming art spaces, a building like this is also a responsibility to community and essential to the breadth of artists and cultural organizers in critical need of free or low-cost space to cite their programs. Thank you.
 Since we officially moved into our building on Hancock and literally flung our doors open on November 4th of 2017, we have said yes, in big capital letters, to dozens of requests and programs in our space. A mix of PICA programming, community organized events, workshops and collaborations with other local and national arts and cultural groups.
 As Roy mentioned, the space that we have on Hancock is indeed a gift and we are willing and able to share this resource with the wider community in order to provide space for all to be safe, create, express, gather, share and heal. We are fulfilling these needs by supporting and mentoring in other capacities outside of the use of our space
 including help with permit applications to the city and cutting through red tape, which consistently changes and is increasingly restrictive and cost prohibitive to a lot of the communities we work with and prevents work by these communities. We've noticed a severe impact on smaller organizations and smaller venues in town. We provide financial assistance where and when we can by covering costs associated with putting on events.
 Our facility, staff, equipment and resources are available to all who use our space, often at no or low cost, as well as to outside groups and organisations. We make connections between individuals, collectives, funders, presenters and the like in order to support the growth and expansion of the arts in Oregon. Thank you.
 In conclusion, our building comes with responsibility, expense, and an attention to ethics for PICA that mirrors the same responsibilities, expenses, and ethics for City Council as you pronounce a commitment to sustainable living for artists. In short, PICA's building and others like it have the potential to serve local artists and communities in game-changing ways.
 but they require public subsidy and support to do so. We, PICA, are fully committed to our work, and we will continue to be a resource for all, especially marginalized communities. But the responsibility is on all of us to create change, from policy and institutions to community-based solutions.
 We ask the city to commit to investing in and subsidizing existing art spaces and organizations who already hold trusted relationships in the community, so those organizations can fully function as part of a solution to the problems and opportunities we are all here to discuss today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good testimony. Thank you.
 The next three are Natalie Sepp, Donovan Smith, and Jerry Teschleder. I believe that's the last name. And they'll be followed by Jeff John, Don Lukoff, and Erica Thomas. Natalie, why don't you kick us off? One minute? I'm just kidding. Thank you so much for this opportunity to speak with you today. My name is Natalie Sepp, and I'm a registered lobbyist with the City of Portland working for Open Signal. But today I'm here in my capacity as an artist.
 I wanted to thank you again, Commissioner Fish, for your leadership on the arts and Commissioner Udailey for your vision and specific experience in the arts community. It's been a privilege and an honor to be able to work with you in my capacity with Open Signal. I've had the privilege of working both in City Hall and some of the best studio spaces in the city, the Falcon Art Building, Thurman Street Studios, and more recently, Northwest Marine Ironworks Building, each of which is brimming with talent so gracious for the space to express themselves. Thank you again for consulting with Ken Unkelis on this process.
 As a multi-generation Portlander, I've seen the city change and the identity shift. This plan is a great opportunity for us to grow as a haven for arts and culture and artists. I encourage you to continue to think about the lives and livelihoods of artists beyond programs that maintain art spaces and infrastructure. Affordable housing and family wage jobs, all of these things which allow artists and people of all backgrounds to live and thrive in the city. As Richard Florida has now said, diversity of all kinds is the key.
 Thank you for recognizing there are some barriers that naturally exist within the government structure. Items 17 and 19, which embolden Prosper Portland to work with artists on ambitious, imaginative projects in unused space, and cut red tape is a wonderful start to the vision that I hope goes to all the different departments that you consider in the future.
 As someone who has been both in City Hall and in studio, I recognize how challenging this is to be both sides, creative and legislative. But I would love to be a resource as you refine the role, specifically of arts concierge. This has been an engaged and collaborative process. And I know that OpenSignal would love to continue to be involved in the more difficult next phase of implementation,
 We are open to cooperative and share resources as you look for venues and spaces for artists and opportunities to reach goals of this ambitious plan. Thank you so much for your consideration for keeping artists in Portland and our city focused on vision, depth, and imagination. Thank you very much. Welcome. Good afternoon. The statement gentrification is where it began as my artistic take on how Portland's image as a pro-art, free-spirited place for all too often left black communities behind in 2015.
 Not an organization or a collective, gentrification is where it has become a rallying point for community members to explore the past and future development of our city and state. It's a point of galvanization and reflection for those who call this place home. It's grown from a static statement to take to exhibits to explore black resistance and vitality in the state through visual art, performances, and conversation across generations.
 and weaving the young and seasoned through the lost city of Vanport back to St. John's for an annual bike ride with organizer Laquita Lanford and the Community Cycling Center and later the Vanport Mosaic Festival, whose first installment included the first interview and community Q&A with our mayor, Ted Wheeler, after his election about his commitments around housing and making this a more accessible city for all.
 These moments and more organized under the gentrification is weird banner have come as a result of community recognizing the statement's poignancy and knowing we can do more. Through my experience of collaboratively rallying folks behind the statement and being a lifetime multi-generational Portlander, it's become increasingly clear that the need for affordable art spaces in our city is at all-time highs.
 Between historical spaces increasingly becoming priced out, falling victim to the bulldozer and red tape that locks too many folks out, it's imperative that the city that prides itself on working for everyone moves forward with fair, inclusive policies for the folks that breathe soul into it.
 Gentrification is weird, but it does not have to remain a fact. This plan is a good step in the right direction. Let's make sure we continue to work forward with stakeholders to implement this plan in a truly equitable way. And I do not like that buzzer. No, it's really annoying, isn't it? It is. It is. I've worn the heck out of the T-shirt, but I still have the bumper sticker up in my office. Oh, that's tight, Ted. It is. It is. I love it.
 Could you give us your name, please? Donovan Smith. Thank you. Donovan, thanks again. It's good to see you again. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jerry Tischlitter. I'm the Art Subdirector at Artist Repertory Theatre and the Producing Artistic Director at Risk Reward. Through those capacities, I've worked with hundreds of artists every year who are looking for rehearsal space, performance space, office space, and I've been able to do that.
 Helen from RAC twisted my arm to come down and talk to you because we ran into each other last week. And I was mentioning that I think there are actually a lot of spaces out there in the community that are open to hosting artists, much like we've done at Artist Ref, but the administrative capacity to open their doors is often the biggest obstacle to letting people actually activate their spaces. In the last year, because of the success of our program, I've been approached by Masonic temples, synagogues, community centers, churches.
 other flagship arts organizations who want to know how they can activate their spaces. And I think the fact that it's actually really, really difficult and really a lot of work to open your doors, to schedule people, to make a secure space that a lot of people can have access to. I don't see a lot of recommendations in here about how to increase administrative capacity to actually activate some of these spaces. So that's mostly what she wanted me to come down and explain.
 testify to. And personally, I might actually put Portland 5 and the firehouses on the list of underutilized spaces in this city. If you look at the number of groups using those spaces and the number of nights per year that are actually being utilized, I think we could look at some of the spaces that the city already has control over to get more use out of them. We're working on it. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three are Jeff John, Don Lotlukoff, and Erica Thomas. Thank you.
 And they'll be followed by the last three are Kate Murrah, Leroy Bynum, and Suzanne Gray. Good afternoon. I'm Jeff Yan. I'm a Portland-based critic and curator. I run PortlandArt.net. It's a web-based arts criticism site. It reaches over 1.5 million unique readers per year.
 As an independent curator, I was very much responsible for instituting a series of programs in warehouse spaces and other alternative spaces that sort of activated Portland early on about 18 years ago. And what I want to bring to the fore here is almost a question of tone. It's great that the council is doing all of this, but
 On the cover of this report, there is a child with fingerprints on their glasses.
 and that sort of thing. That's great and it's a non-threatening image, but really the arts are a serious thing. And in terms of messaging and tone, what we want to do is we want to maintain Portland's edge as a creative hub. Cities like Houston always come back to messaging how they are going to be an important international artistic hub.
 And if we don't get that messaging right, if we don't get our application of funds that we're putting out there and saying, hey, we're being serious about our arts,
 It's all for naught. And I'd like to see a message that conveys that seriousness at all points along the way. A lot of people just don't know what great things we have, like the Mark Rothko thing and other things. And that's coming along now. But we need more of it, and we need to message it from the top to the bottom. Thank you. Thanks, Chair. Thank you.
 Erica Thomas, I'm here as an independent artist and the co-director of MATTER, which is a new independent, self-funded, and women-run art space in central Eastside Portland. We started in spring of 2017 and we're focused on contextual and socially engaged art about labor, politics, social justice, place, and economics.
 I came here and I live here because I wanted to get an MFA in art and social practice from Portland State. And I want to stay here and so I'm invested in maintaining and improving the health of our creative and artistic place. There are many Portland art spaces that are precariously existing on the goodwill of their landlords. For example, Flight 64, a 16-year-old community printmaking collective on Alberta.
 They're able to exist almost exclusively because the landlord has not voluntarily raised the rent, which is often referred to as market-to-market rate. So in many cases, spaces like these are barely hanging on, or they're not. For example, New Space Center for Photography, which closed last July after 15 years due to financial strain, a place where I formerly volunteered youth workshops.
 Most of these small independent art spaces would not be possible to start now under current development and economic conditions in present Portland. And I'd like to encourage the city to provide support for artists and art spaces, their important ideas, culture happenings, and the things that they produce independently from their value as financial commodities.
 These spaces provide our city with our way of life, and they're what make Portland a great place to live, if you can afford it. And I would like to see us have a conversation that doesn't revolve around what we're here to provide only for businesses. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, I'm Don Lukoff, the Executive Artistic Director of PDX Jazz. We just concluded our annual jazz festival. I want to thank Nick Fish, who's been a tireless supporter of our mission.
 This morning we convened two sessions at the Schnitz for Title I schools, and it was filled to capacity. And that's our next generation of jazz audience. And to give those people the opportunity to hear jazz in the future, we need the proper venues. We do shows creatively from the southwest, from Lewis and Clark, all the way up to the University of Portland in the northeast.
 We have an abundance of jazz artists that live here. For a city its size, it is unrivaled across this country. We are a nomadic organization. We recently left the Alberta Abbey thinking that that would be a home for us. The last show we did there was a year ago. People had to wear downcoats because there was no heat in the building.
 it's a serious situation losing Jimmy Mack, who is a cherished, cherished person in our community, and then his building shortly thereafter to gentrification has compounded the issue. So we're out there fighting for this music. It's America's only indigenous art form, yet our festival had over 100 events, 35 headline artists from 12 different countries.
 Thank you. Don, the Oregon Experience last weekend featured jazz on Williams Avenue and all the venues that we lost, and it was very sobering. But what I really want to say is thank you for bringing Esperanza Spalding back to Portland. You're very welcome. She'll be back again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The last three are Kate Mura, Leroy Bynum, and Suzanne Gray. Good afternoon. Hello. Hello.
 My name is Kate Mira. I am a founding member and artistic ambassador of Fuse Theatre Ensemble, one of the small arts organizations in Portland that produces the Outright Theatre Festival, one of the largest celebrations of GLBTQI theatre on the West Coast. And I also happen to be the vice president of IATSE Local 28,
 the Stagehands Union here in Portland, but today I am simply here with my hat on as an independent artist. And I have been listening to the testimony of so many before me, so in the interest of time,
 I won't repeat anything. However, I do want to echo an importance of utilizing underutilized spaces that Jerry with Risk and Reward so aptly spoke of. And having been one of the administrators of Theater Theater, when it was still around, I can...
 add to that story of how challenging it is to keep creative spaces open, as well as what it feels like to become homeless when Profile, who you heard from earlier, was also affected by the loss of theater theater, which I certainly hope part four of the affordable art space, the incentivizing creative landlords, will go to help
 make sure that we don't lose more of the arts spaces. And so to finalize, I just want to say thank you, and thank you to everybody who is here and lending their voices so strongly in support of keeping the creative heart of Portland that has brought so many here. And unfortunately, we mourn for those who have had to move away because of rising costs. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon. My name is Leroy Bynum, Jr., and I am the brand-new dean of the College of the Arts at Portland State University. My comments will be very brief. I moved here to Portland last summer from upstate New York. And like so many newcomers to the city, I was drawn here because of the incredibly vibrant community
 arts community, and I take very kindly to the obligation and to the privilege of doing all that I can to ensure that Portland is a place where artists of all backgrounds can thrive. And so the recommendation in this artist report will help us to ensure that students who graduate from
 Portland State, for instance, with degrees in fine and performing arts, will be able to stay in Portland and put their many talents to work. The arts are not merely the spice that you sprinkle on top of a healthy community. They are one of the main ingredients.
 Artists are uniquely equipped to help address the critical challenges facing the city today. And I urge you to adopt these recommendations in the arts report and to partner with the College of the Arts and arts organizations in all disciplines in order to strengthen our community and ensure that Portland is the place where artists of all backgrounds can thrive.
 Dean, New York's loss is our gain. So welcome. Great to have you. I was just going to say thank you for being here at the hearing and also thank you for coming. I moved here from upstate New York 32 years ago. I hope you're as happy with your choice as I am. Oh, I am. Well, not so much today, but...
 You don't have to shovel rain. Just remember that. Dean, you may have noticed Commissioner Fritz still has a little of that New York accent. But congratulations in your new role, and we wish you the very best. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Hi. Thank you for having me. My name is Suzanne Gray, and I work as the Marketing and Communications Manager at College of the Arts at PSU. But I'm here representing myself just as an arts supporter.
 In 2008, I was living in New York City, and when I visited Portland for the first time, I talked to a gallery owner on Northwest 21st Street, who explained to me that Portland was a place where artists could work part-time in a shop or a restaurant and have plenty of time and energy to dedicate to their art and still pay rent on a home in the inner Southeast neighborhoods, and that that was what made Portland such a vibrant and creative city.
 Ten years later, that gallery is long gone, and so many of my artist friends are hanging on by their fingernails. Portland's economic growth cannot come at the expense of our artists, performers, and makers. If it does, we will lose the very thing that made people like me fall in love with Portland in the first place. So I urge you to pursue these recommendations in the arts reports so that Portland's artists can continue to thrive. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes our presentation. Very good. Excellent presentation. Thank you, everybody, for your testimony. We're going to call the roll first on the amendment. Are there any questions on the amendment? Please call the roll on the amendment. Fritz. Thank you. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Good amendment. Thanks. Aye. The amendment's adopted to the main motion. Thank you.
 One more. There's one more. We appreciate the support for parks, but yes, we've got one more to go. It's like third run bobsled. Anything can happen. To the main motion. Fritz. Well, thank you, everybody, for being here. Thank you for those in the council who've worked on this. I'm particularly appreciative of those who came to testify. I was kind of expecting a rah-rah, yes, this is great. And instead, what we got was a lot of provocative and insightful responses.
 to do better and to do more. And so I am surprised and delighted that that was the case. Thank you for making the effort to come, and I know that we will take note of what you were asking and include you as we move forward. I. Bish? You know, as I listen to all the wonderful testimony here today, I think about what would happen if we lived in a city that did not honor arts and culture.
 What if we couldn't go hear Esperanza Spalding when she is in the jazz festival or go to see a Japanese film that's provocative at the film festival or see modern dance throughout the city or celebrate our public art collection, go to galleries and independent bookstores, catch a show at any number of theaters around the city? What if that wasn't part of what we just expected as what Portland was all about?
 And as I've said many times, there's nothing inevitable about Portland being an arts and culture capital. And it's up to us to seize this moment to make sure we don't lose it. So I'm immensely proud today of the council's action, and I'm thankful for my council colleagues for their support and their thoughtful engagement on this issue.
 We've heard loud and clear from our community that the arts are core to who we are as a city and that it will take thoughtful, proactive action by local government, philanthropy, nonprofits, the private sector, and artists to preserve our sense of identity.
 I want to especially thank Jamie Dunphy, and Jamie doesn't take easily to praise, but he has done yeoman's work pulling this together. And I want to thank Jamie on my staff for starting this work, for working so collaboratively with my colleagues and everyone who's here, and frankly for wearing a suit again today. I want to thank all the community members who helped craft these recommendations today.
 to everyone who testified today, and to the advocates who recognize the urgency of this problem, and who continue to challenge us to do more. The city has a long history of good intentions and detailed plans, but we often fall short on the follow-through, especially when there are changes in who is sitting in one of these chairs. So I call on this community to hold us accountable for these recommendations and commitments over the long term.
 And today's vote, excuse me, after today's vote, we will be implementing a number of these recommendations and we will be going deeper. Today isn't a day to congratulate ourselves for a job well done. Today is when we really start to do the hard work. And I'm proud to live in a city where we recognize that this is important work. You, Daly. Thank you.
 So we're obviously a little pressed for time, and I've done my best to condense my remarks and thank yous, so everyone bear with me. This is a personal issue. It's very near and dear to my heart because it reflects my lived experience as an independent bookseller, a publisher, a writer, an events organizer, an artist, and a patron and fan of the arts.
 I've been involved in Portland's arts and culture community for over 25 years and started sounding the alarm about the loss of affordability a decade ago when I started seeing businesses and arts organizations and individual artists start to lose their long time spaces to produce and exhibit their work.
 Sorry that we're just now getting to this conversation, but I'm really thankful that it's beginning, and I'm thankful to be in a position to actually do something about it. So as we know, Portland's becoming increasingly unaffordable for probably what's now the majority of our residents, and artists certainly are not immune to that.
 I want to acknowledge that Portland has really built its brand on the backs of our arts and culture community without doing enough to support them and in particular preserve affordability.
 we've lost so many vital creative businesses, venues, arts organizations, studio spaces over the last decade. And while I'm pleased to be bringing back the small business liaison, aka arts concierge to BDS today,
 and I'm hopeful about many of the innovations offered in this report. I'm personally less interested in how we can incentivize developers and businesses to create new spaces than I am in preserving existing naturally affordable spaces and supporting our culturally significant businesses and organizations and artists to make their art,
 own way and in particular to own their own spaces. My favorite proposals really quickly, create the inventory and map of creative spaces in Portland. I don't know how we defend these spaces if we don't know the territory. So that's number one and I think as Jeff said it's low hanging fruit and it sounds like a really fun project so sign me up.
 explore the creation of an art-specific real estate investment model. I know it doesn't sound terribly sexy, but again, I think artists and arts organizations really have to have an ownership stake in their spaces if we're truly committed to preserving long-term affordability. I think the short-term use of spaces for feature development is exciting. Um...
 So let's look at that. And also working with neighborhood associations and business districts to establish creative districts, obviously based on what is already naturally occurring in their neighborhoods. So I look forward to working with all of you. It's not every day that I get to see so many friends and colleagues in this room. And my past life intersects with my current life. So it's very exciting.
 And I just want to say that art is vital, it's essential, and it's non-optional. I just want to put that on the record, personally. And finally, I want to thank a few people. First of all, thank you, Commissioner Fish.
 It's been a pleasure to work with you on this issue and have what some people may think is an unlikely ally, but is very much a friend and supporter. I've lost track of my thank you since I rewrote that entire intro. Here we go.
 I really did lose my thank yous. I'm sorry, everybody. So thanks to Jamie Dunphy, to all the staff who worked on this, all the community stakeholders, all of you who are going to help us further this mission and hold us accountable. That's a really important part.
 Don't let this fall through the cracks. And my final thank you, and I'm sure I'm forgetting someone, and I apologize, is to Pollyann Burge from my office, who I've actually been working with or collaborating with for most of the last couple decades. So thank you. Aye. Wheeler. So thorough was the report. So thorough.
 was the testimony that I need not make any comments except to say I support what people have said today about the importance of arts and culture in our community. I do want to say a couple of thank yous. First of all, thank you to Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Udaly for your leadership and your partnership on this. I'm certainly happy to be a co-sponsor.
 I'd like to thank your respective staffs. I don't think we've quite embarrassed Jamie enough, and the reason being he's hiding behind our large novelty city hall clock that
 So please give them a high five on your way out. Pollyann Burge, thank you. Thanks to Lisa Taylor and Jennifer Arguinzoni in my office for your hard work on this. And thanks to all of our incredible presenters today, Subha, Brian, Jeff, Russ, Andre, Charlene, Damaris, and Carlos. You did a great job. We've got lots to work with here. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. We will take a five-minute break, and then we'll come back. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Chloe, thank you. Nicely done. Are we good? We are back.
 In session, welcome back, everybody. The rules remain the same. No disruptions, please. Please be respectful of people at the mic. Understand you will hear opinions that differ from your own. Council rules are that we don't boo people. We don't shout at people. Thumbs up if you like it, thumbs down if you don't. None of us like people to be removed from the chamber, but if you're disruptive and you don't abide by the warnings that are given to
 if you are being disruptive, you will be asked to leave. And we don't want that to happen. So let's all just listen respectfully. It will be a long afternoon. For those of you here to testify publicly, thank you. Plan on two minutes for public testimony. The way it works is...
 uh... you'll come to the microphone the microphones move around keep the microphone about this far from you they're really sensitive microphone so is six ish seven inches is usually about right name for the record we do not need your address if you're a lobbyist we do need to know that your if you're a lobbyist
 And if you're here representing an organization, that is helpful too. You'll have two minutes. When one minute and 30 seconds has gone, a yellow light on that little box in front of me goes off. When your time is up, you will hear a beeping and you will see a red light. That means you need to finish at that time to be respectful for the people who follow. So without further ado, Carla, please read the next item. Okay.
 Item 204, amend to make permanent the mandatory relocation assistance for involuntary displacement of tenants under affordable housing preservation and Portland renter protections. Colleagues, today the City Council will take up a set of policies that are designed to protect tenants in an increasingly un-affordable rental market.
 This ordinance, in my opinion, if adopted, cements three significant policy wins. First, this makes permanent an existing policy requiring landlords to provide relocation assistance to tenants they evict without cause or who cannot afford a double-digit rent increase.
 Next, we cover more renters under the policy by removing the exemption for landlords who only operate a single rental unit. Finally, we lay the groundwork for a rental registration system so that we can collect quality data on the rental market in Portland. This is something that both housing advocates and landlord advocates have asked for.
 These three items move the ball forward significantly as we work to ensure that housing in Portland remains both accessible and affordable. And more so, I see this as a pragmatic approach that addresses the primary issues that have been expressed throughout this process. I know that there are those in this room and elsewhere who think this measure goes too far.
 that landlords will be unduly burdened by some of the provisions in the ordinance. I also know that there are many in this room who think the measure doesn't go far enough and that we should consider changes both big and small to address this particular criticism. As we worked on the policy that's in front of us today, I had to take time to consider recommendations from our technical advisory committee.
 I relied on the ideas and the advice of my fellow city commissioners. I sought to understand alternative points of view. And there wasn't always just one view or another. Sometimes there were three or four or five or six views on a given issue. I worked hard to engage all of those who historically have had limited access to City Hall.
 And finally, I took feedback from those who would be the most directly impacted by these policies. Ultimately, it's my obligation to craft the best policy possible. I know there will be criticisms. For example...
 The question has been raised, could this policy affect the rental landscape for landlords who have only one unit of rental housing? In other words, could it cause some landlords to remove their units from the rental market? On the margin, I believe it is very possible that some landlords will remove their units from the market.
 The broader stability provided to the overall rental market, in my opinion, outweighs the concerns of the loss of some units in the near term. Our goal has never changed. We have continued to ensure that we protect tenants in this market by being reasonable about the policies that we put forward.
 In removing the single unit exemption, we've placed other exemptions in place that support our values. First, we're exempting duplexes where the owner is in residence of one of the units. This supports the council's current policy around maintaining existing density in our neighborhoods. Second of all, we're exempting all auxiliary dwelling units, otherwise known as ADUs,
 on a property where, once again, the owner is in residence. The city has long had a policy of increasing ADUs as a way to alleviate the housing crisis and increase our housing stock. Third, if an owner rents temporarily for up to three years and then returns to their residence, this is also exempt.
 We want owners to be able to temporarily increase our housing stock rather than leaving units vacant and unused. Fourth, if a member of the military is deployed and returns, this too will be exempt. This is simply the right thing to do, and I'm happy to include it in the ordinance.
 Fifth, we live in an ever-changing world. Parents are aging. People have older relatives. Adult children are struggling in the midst of this housing crisis. People need to support their families. If a family member is moved into a unit, this will also be exempt.
 That said, I've heard examples from people who have noted that in other cities that have similar exemptions, those exemptions can be gained. So I've directed the Housing Bureau to carefully construct rules around this to prevent abuse. Defining what a family member is could in and of itself become a very complicated process.
 In some communities here, we have grandparents raising grandchildren. They're doing the right thing, so I don't want to be punitive. If a family is in crisis, we want to help support them. I also want a time threshold so that the unit will be occupied for a period of time to prevent abuse. Personally, I believe that should be at least one year or longer.
 Sixth, if an affordable housing unit is already regulated by the federal, state, or local government, that should be exempt. Seventh, if a dwelling unit is rendered uninhabitable through no fault of the landlord, this too is exempt.
 It's not just natural disasters we're talking about. Think about the gas explosion that we had in northwest Portland a little over a year ago. That was no fault of the landlord, and frankly, in good conscience, I could not subject a landlord in that particular circumstance to additional burdens. There is significant legal precedent on this issue, and it's also generally included in the vast majority of rental contracts.
 These are all reasonable. They include Portland Housing Bureau monitoring and reporting requirements and will also be carefully constructed through administrative rules in many cases. During this process, I was reminded of one thing overwhelmingly. We are in a housing emergency and people are suffering. I was reminded of the choices that renters are frequently asked to make.
 of moving farther away from places of employment and farther away from where their kids get their education in search of affordability. I was reminded of people deciding which utilities they could afford to forego. I was reminded of people who delayed the reporting of needed housing repairs out of fear of eviction.
 I was reminded of how rent increases and evictions have families in constant fear of displacement, and sometimes that even means displacement right onto the streets of our own community. As mayor, I must lead in addressing these concerns, and this policy puts Portland in a leadership position with regard to tenant rights.
 I'm also reminded of the limited sets of tools that the city currently has at its disposal. I want to remind everybody that for several years I have been a supporter of, and last year I asked the legislature to support, a just cause eviction standard.
 The legislature was not able to do that to get it done last year. So while we're going to continue down that path, because I think it makes sense to have a broad framework rather than a narrow one, we have to do the best we can to address the crisis that exists today in our community with the tools and the resources that we have available. Thank you to the advisory committee.
 I advocated for the creation of this committee so I could be informed by industry professionals. I value the work you did. You provided me no fewer than 46 different specific policy recommendations. Not all of them made it into this particular ordinance, but the vast majority did. And again, I want to thank you for your hard work.
 I want to thank my colleagues on the City Council. You've helped my team and I think through some very complex policy issues, and you'll find that each aspect of this ordinance has very significant tradeoffs, and my job is to weigh those tradeoffs, and I did my level best in helping to draft this ordinance. I look forward to having the Rental Services Commission in monitoring the continued future of our relocation policy.
 And I'm going to continue to work for advocates both on the renter and owner sides of this equation, along with property management companies and professionals on the tools that can aid us nationally, at the state level, and most especially at the local level to help us to continue to address this housing crisis. My belief is that housing is a human right.
 And I'm pledging wherever you are in this equation that I will work with you to continue to positively address this issue for the betterment of all of us in this community. Thank you. And at this point, I will turn it over to my colleagues, starting with Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor.
 Last January, our city was facing the heart-wrenching realities of a rental market that provided no protection for tenants from unexpected displacement from their homes, including multiple instances of entire multifamily developments with primarily low-income residents being issued no-cause evictions or receiving huge rent increases as high as 100%.
 We had families with jobs and small children being turned out into the street because they didn't have the means to pay thousands of dollars to secure new housing that they could barely, if at all, afford. We had school principals and teachers pleading with us to protect their students from being torn from their school communities. We had communities begging us to help keep them together and keep them in homes they had lived in for years, sometimes decades.
 As a renter myself, I could directly relate to what they were going through. I had borne the cost of no-cause and economic evictions twice. I had struggled with housing costs that ate up 50% or more of my income for years. Through our inaction as a state and as a city, we allowed for conditions to progress to the point where few renters could feel safe or stable in their homes anymore.
 We allowed an unregulated market to dictate what happened to children and to seniors and people with disabilities on fixed incomes. We weren't protecting some of the most vulnerable members of our community, which is our primary job as far as I'm concerned.
 When we introduced relocation assistance last February as a step toward increasing stability and the chances that families could afford to find a new home, we knew it wasn't going to solve our housing crisis. We only hoped that it would stem the tide of cost-burdening displacement and homelessness, especially for the 25% of our residents currently struggling to afford the roofs over their heads.
 Because of state interference with our local power to regulate and manage our rental housing market, relocation assistance was virtually the only tool left at our disposal. And I'm so grateful to my colleagues for recognizing its value in supporting this effort. I want to acknowledge that this policy would look very different if it was left up to any single Commissioner. But this is a group effort requiring compromise from all of us.
 And while I have some concerns, I'm going to call them yellow flags that I've raised, in which I'll be watching closely. I want to acknowledge that we are taking a huge step forward today in the right direction, and that is something to celebrate even if it's not perfect. Thank you for the twinkle fingers. I welcome them.
 Um, today we had Michael Buonacore, the ED of Home Forward, giving testimony on another item, and he mentioned the feeling that, um, it's never enough. We can never do enough. And, and I, I have that feeling every day. I have that feeling today, but let's take a moment and celebrate this today. So, um,
 I can say with confidence that this policy has had an overwhelmingly positive impact for the tenants who were covered by it. There has not been a single day, and this is not an exaggeration, that has gone by since this policy was originally passed that our office hasn't received a phone call or an email about relocation assistance. As expected, some but not all landlords are unhappy with it.
 Also, as expected, many tenants thank us for providing a modicum of stability and security amidst this unprecedented eight-year-and-counting housing crisis. But the communications that have been the most challenging are the ones that we have gotten from those tenants, often very low income, who were not covered by relocation due to the one-unit exemption.
 What we have learned over the last year is that there are as many as 20,000 single-owned units on the rental market, which provide housing for over 40,000 residents. These homes are concentrated in some of our most racially diverse and low-income neighborhoods, which means that our policy wasn't benefiting tens of thousands of the residents that it was designed to protect.
 I am pleased, so pleased, that we are here to consider eliminating the one-unit exemption and making this policy permanent today. I want to be clear about my stance. This is absolutely the right thing to do.
 However, I also want to acknowledge that the elimination of this exemption could create a true financial hardship for a small number of landlords. And that's why I strongly urge the mayor's office and the Portland Housing Bureau to proceed with creating a hardship waiver process for those landlords. The city alone cannot solve this crisis. It's a crisis that's driven by many circumstances beyond our control.
 from the federal government abandoning its obligation to fund affordable housing, to growing income inequality, to huge Wall Street investment firms and foreign investors buying up our real estate and rental properties. We are also facing as a city the ultimate outcome of social engineering through discriminatory public policy,
 that began decades ago. We are not responsible for creating that policy, but we are responsible for the remedy, and this is part of it. So I'm going to save my thanks for the end, which actually might be next week. And with all that being said, I look forward to hearing from the public and for our deliberations, the deliberations we're about to have. Thank you.
 Very good. We have Housing Director Shannon Callahan and Matt Scheibold to provide an overview of the policy framework. Why don't you kick us off today? Thank you, Mayor and Commissioner. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau.
 So as you've retold today, Council first adopted a temporary relocation assistance policy in 2017. You convened a technical assistance group who met and discussed over 43 distinct policy issues, working for nearly a year in more than 45 hours of very involved meetings.
 After all of these issues were discussed, we consulted and worked with the Mayor's Office on the development of the policy that you see before you today. You'll see a timeline of all of the work that has gone on to the various stages of this policy. Matthew will now give you an overview of some of the policy choices, and then I will close with a little bit regarding next steps for the Housing Bureau in terms of administrative rule development.
 So the mayor already mentioned many of the changes, but I just want to hit the key highlights, and then we can field questions. So there was requests from the technical group to add some clarity in the code language around payment and notification timelines. So through the process since last year, we've made those adjustments there.
 We've added a requirement for landlords to provide tenants information on relocation assistance and their rights and responsibilities, given that it can be somewhat of a complicated process in terms of what their options are, that they'll get that information when they receive different notices that are in city code.
 And we added some clear differentiation between what we call the triggering events, which are the no-cause eviction, a rent increase of 10% or more, as well as non-renewal of lease or not renewing a lease on similar terms. So those are some of the larger modifications that don't relate to the exemptions.
 Again, looking at the exemptions, just to kind of go through really quick, the single-unit exemption was eliminated, and there are 11 exemptions in here.
 The owner-occupied duplex, the owner-occupied site where there are ADUs, ADUs when the owner is on the site, landlord renting a primary residence during absence of not more than three years, and military service, moving in an immediate family member, regulated affordable housing.
 housing paying federal relocation assistance, units uninhabitable through no action or inaction of the landlord or the tenant, and then units that are permitted for demolition before being rented and the renter is informed that the unit will be demolished and it is a short-term rental. It's a long-term rental but for a shorter period of time. So those are the exemptions in the ordinance.
 Can you go back one bullet? I don't understand this. Sixty-plus years of regulated affordable housing. So if it's affordable housing and it's regulated by the federal government, the state government, or the local government, for at least 60 years it will be exempt from relocation assistance payments. So if it's less than 60 years? Then it is not exempt in the ordinance.
 And, you know, most regulated affordable housing is exempt anyway, given the provisions in the lease about having to make only a certain amount of money. And most events that an agency that owns and operates regulated housing would come with federal relocation requirements.
 And so most regulated affordable housing would be already exempt, but there was some request for clarification in the code, just because there was some confusion in the earlier versions, and so we wanted to add that in to clarify that. It was a request of some of our members of our technical committee. Thank you. Yep. Thank you.
 Also added to this ordinance is the requirement that all landlords must report to the Housing Bureau after paying relocation. We're trying to make sure that we collect good data and are tracking our policies going forward. All landlords must also submit applications to the Housing Bureau to be eligible for any of the exemptions that you see on this list.
 And finally, we will, at the Housing Bureau, develop administrative rules, both on an interim basis and on a permanent basis, if you move forward with this ordinance. We also have been requested to provide staffing for an information line to be able to answer tenant questions as well as landlord questions. We have some...
 triage in place with the current staffing. But I will note that we'll be talking with you through the budget process as well. So thank you. Very good. We have two panels of invited testimony before we get to public testimony. I know that we have one amendment on the table. Commissioner, I'll let you provide that at your leisure. You can either do it now or later.
 I'd like to just put it on the table if that's all right with you. Let's go ahead and do it. So this is to add number 12 to the list of exemptions and under Code Chapter 30.01.08,
 8.5G. And this would add number 12, a dwelling unit where the landlord has provided a fixed term tenancy and notified the tenant prior to occupancy of the landlord's intent to sell or permanently convert the dwelling unit to use other than a dwelling unit subject to the Act.
 And I will second that for discussion purposes. Is there any further discussion on that before we go to the panel and then take public testimony? This is to address one of the challenges that we've received in testimony, which is about where there's a fixed-term contract, where at the beginning it was clear to the tenant that it was going to be for a certain length of time. And I believe that this is true to that. Very good. All right, our first panel. Thank you.
 Laura Galino DeLavado, Northwest Pilot Project, and she was on our Technical Advisory Committee and is also serving on the Rental Services Commission. Thank you very much for your service. Mike Noose, Rare Bird, Real Estate Investment. He also served on the Technical Advisory Committee and the Rental Services Commission. Again, thank you. Appreciate your being here today. Thank you. Thanks so much. Shall I start? Please do.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners, and thanks for the opportunity to speak about this important issue. My name is Laura Galino de Lovato. I'm the Executive Director of Northwest Pilot Project, and as the Mayor said, I served on the Technical Advisory Committee for the Relocation Ordinance and am a member of the Renner Services Commission.
 For those of you who aren't familiar with Northwest Pilot Project, we are a small but effective nonprofit organization that provides housing assistance to individuals 55 and older in Multnomah County. The majority of our clients, about 80% of them, are extremely low income, meaning that they have an income of $15,700 or less annually. That's their entire annual income.
 While we don't own or manage any properties, our services are critical to housing stability for this very specific population.
 Last fiscal year, we stabilized about 250 low-income seniors in housing, preventing their potential homelessness. And we also placed into housing another 250 low-income seniors from a situation of homelessness. And that was in a really, really tough housing year and a housing crisis.
 So I'm here on behalf of the clients that we serve. Our clients are on fixed incomes from Social Security, Social Security Disability Insurance, or SSI, Supplemental Security Income. None of these sources of incomes have large annual increases and are pretty minimal to begin with.
 Most of our clients have at least one disability and are unlikely to be able to supplement their income by getting employment. So being able to go out and raise their income to address higher rent is not something that they are likely going to be able to do.
 They rely on Northwest Pilot Project to provide assistance with navigating the rental housing search, getting on waiting lists for subsidized housing, paying a deposit, or getting short-term rent assistance.
 I'm also here to request that the City Council today vote in favor of making this ordinance permanent. While the ordinance isn't perfect, it is an important part of the support network and a protection that is especially important for low-income renters. Because of their low income, many of NWPP's clients stand to benefit from this ordinance if their rent were raised 10% or more or if their existing lease was terminated for no cause.
 In our experience in the past year since the ordinance first passed, some of our clients' landlords or property owners were deterred from raising rents more than 10% because we believe of the ordinance and the desire to avoid paying the relocation. That actually did what it was supposed to do. It helped tenants stabilize in their housing.
 We also had a few cases of landlords choosing not to end a lease because of the potential of triggering relocation. I can't emphasize really enough how important it's been for our clients, for whom...
 a significant rent increase or a move not of their choice puts them at risk of being homeless. And that's one of the things that we see as an important role in what we do.
 While we support the ordinance being made permanent, there were a few issues that were included in the ordinance after the Technical Assistance Committee's last meeting on February 9th that weren't shared with those of us who were on the committee until last Friday in the final copy of the ordinance.
 I'm happy to hear that you, Mayor Wheeler, and the Housing Bureau are going to address some of the issues through rulemaking and administration. We're particularly concerned about Item G7.
 that exempts a landlord from paying relocation to a tenant whose lease is terminated in order for an immediate family member to occupy the dwelling unit, in part because of the possibility of abuse, lack of definitions about what a family member is, lack of definitions around timing, and in part because the Technical Advisory Committee did not have an opportunity to discuss the pros and cons of that and how it would affect tenants, how it would affect tenants,
 landlords and homeowners. So from a process standpoint, it was disappointing to have that show up after we had met. But we understand, again, that it's going to continue to be addressed. And I think those of us who are serving on the Rental Services Commission are going to be pleased to be able to continue to address this and make sure that some of these are addressed. Thank you.
 I have to say personally, from a personal perspective, as well as from the perspective of representing low-income renters, I found the experience of being on the technical relocation, the relocation technical assistance committee, to be very informative, educational. It was emotional and frustrating.
 I appreciate every single one of the other members in that committee. I learned so much. And I think we all benefited from being able to listen to the different perspectives. So thank you all for doing that service.
 And I would add one other small thing, which is that as a member of that committee and also as a member of the Rental Services Commission, I've found that people who are giving their time, whether in a professional volunteer capacity, to these committees or commissions, are doing so out of a real desire to be helpful. So leverage our expertise. Use that expertise. You asked us for it. We're at the table.
 Ask us. Let us participate. Let us help. Well said. Thank you. Appreciate it very much, and thanks for your service and your continued service. Good afternoon.
 Hello. Thank you very much. I just want to thank the City Council for inviting me to testify today or to provide testimony today. Thank you for the invite to the Rental Services Commission. I'm very proud and privileged to be on that. And thank you for the invite to be part of the Technical Advisory Committee.
 No one can argue that Portland has seen a major economic shift over the past few years. It's no longer the little big city that I visited as a young child. It's no longer the big little city that I moved to as a young adult in my late teens. That's led to record level of tourism, record level of commercial real estate investment, record level of multifamily real estate investment, and at the end has resulted in a housing crisis. I don't think that that can be ignored.
 When we're facing an economic shift like we've seen, the onus is on leaders of our city to provide new tools to combat what's going on. I do believe that the relocation policy is the best tool that we have to treat what I believe is the largest symptom of a housing crisis, which is displacement. By no means do I believe this is a comprehensive tool, but it's the only tool that we have that directly affects the biggest...
 problem I see that our community faces. I think we need to create more tools. I think Mayor Wheeler, your recent public announcement of being invested in the framework building in the Home Forwards Project, Affordable Housing Project over by the Convention Center, your state legislation to combine different forms of government financing as another tool to provide more supply to the market. And I like the fact that you're looking at that from a comprehensive standpoint.
 I was asked today to talk about two things, one on the policy and my thoughts in general, and then also on the process. I've chosen to address three points of the ordinance today that I feel were well heard.
 and the outcome of those. First, the mismatching of the timelines in a federally backed owner-occupied loan requiring occupancy of a buyer 60 days after purchase and how that contradicts the policy for the 90 days timeline in the relocation policy. I think that that will go a long ways in helping keep from disrupting the retail market, the house-selling market,
 by recognizing that mismatch and creating a policy around it. With a permanent relocation housing policy, I think it's extremely important. And I think there is a lot of agreement on the technical advisory committee to recalculate, reload costs on a consistent basis, whether that's going to be one years or two years. I think this is the best way that we can actually make this a market driven policy. And we have to look at market conditions going forward on a consistent basis. That may mean,
 market's going down. It may mean market's going up, but it gives a tool in place to allow the policy to change to given market conditions. And I believe that this is a policy that does need to be tied to the market. I think the most discussed topic outside of the timeline of relocation assistance and when that gets paid and notice is given was the one-unit exemption. There's a lot of debate about that.
 I believe Mayor Wheeler and the council that you will put forth a good fourth effort to create a waiver policy. And I think that's essential. One, I think basically this policy takes a symptom in the marketplace and puts the funding solely on one part of the population. I think by exempting all one-unit landlords, it's actually...
 segmenting that onus on a smaller part of the population. And I think it's important to lift that exemption, but create a hardship waiver for people, for landlords that truly do need that financial assistance. This policy isn't perfect, and I'm sure you're going to hear plenty of testimony today as to that fact, unintended consequences on the tenant side, unintended consequences on the landlord side. And I agree with you, Mayor Wheeler, when you say that
 There's plenty of complaining on both sides of the table, which probably says that this is a good point to start. And I also believe that through the Renter Services Commission, we'll have the ability to add more feedback and potentially tweak that ordinance to make it better moving forward. Regarding the process, I felt compelled to...
 get engaged in the process this time last year coming to my first City Council meeting and seeing what's created behind that process. I engaged for two reasons. One, I wanted to have a positive impact in my community and two, I also wanted to be heard and I wanted to add more perspective to the Commission. And I think for the most part all of the stakeholders at the Technical Advisory Committee and also the Commissioners on the Rental Service Commission have that same desire to provide impact and to be heard. And
 In order for us to produce positive solutions, both sides have to feel like they're being heard. I was also a member of the stakeholder committee for the security deposit. No one wants to be in a position when you're taking time out of your day to be part of this and feel like you're marking a box in a procedure. Unfortunately, in the security deposit stakeholders committee, I felt like I marked a box. I didn't feel heard. I want to contrast that with my experience with the technical advisory committee.
 The leadership from Matt and his team, Victoria, Andres, Cupid, Andrea earlier on, leadership was on point. It guided us through that process. Getting a personal phone call from Mayor Wheeler one day after a disappointing meeting made me feel heard. I think there was a lot of trust that was gained at the table over the 10 months or so while that committee was in place.
 And that was important to come to agreement on the timelines of the rental, the relocation policy. It was important to allow ourselves to be vulnerable at the table and speak what we felt in order to provide more perspective.
 Ultimately, more perspective and more experience is what leads to better policy. And I think that the advisory committee that you put together had an array of experience at the table. Some really good community leaders that were passionate, knowledgeable, and experienced providing their input. Earlier this year, the first meeting of the Rental Services Commission, we –
 We're giving a great history lesson on the fair housing laws or lack of fair housing laws in Portland's checkered past. Deed restrictions forcing creating some of the demographic divides that we had in the city. The massive use of eminent no domain for Emanuel Hospital and for the Memorial Coliseum and how that impacted our committee.
 redlining and the lack of financing available to minorities and how that affected the committee and created the community and created that direction. It's a very important part of that process for everyone to be educated on our past. Unfortunately, I do feel like there's some education that's been missing. I don't feel like there's been more perspective and education given to the factors that drive property ownership. The basic economics of owning and managing a rental property.
 The decisions that it takes to buy property, the risk that creates to buy property, the difficulty it is to acquire a loan, the ability to set expenses and reserves, the difficulty in navigating fair housing laws and state laws when placing tenants. And I believe that if we can set some more time aside to educate the commission on how these elements play out in Portland, we have a greater chance of coming up with stronger and sustainable solutions that can be embraced by landlords and tenants alike.
 And so that's where I'm at. I do feel support for this policy. I think it's a bold step. I said that a year ago, and I still believe that today. I feel like there's a lot of work to be done, and I think the Randall Services Commission can be part of that. I hope that we continue to bring more perspective in as we continue to make these policy decisions. Thank you, Fred. Very good. Thank you both for your testimony. And I like your suggestion with regard to
 the information sharing that needs to happen right up front and I'd actually love to work with you to help build a panel around those topics that you mentioned the risk ownership and
 establishing reserves, the difficulty in navigating some of the regulatory environment. I think that's a useful perspective. Thank you. I'd love to work with you on that. Awesome. I appreciate it. Thank you both for your continued service. Thank you. We really appreciate it. And our second and final panel is Christian Bryant from the Portland Area Rental Owners Association.
 Christian was on our Technical Advisory Committee and will also continue on the Rental Services Commission. Katrina Holland is here, and she is from the Community Alliance of Tenants. She was also on the Technical Advisory Committee and is on the Rental Services Commission. Welcome. And Christina Dirks, Legal Aid Services of Oregon. She was also on the Technical Advisory Committee and on the Rental Services Commission. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Hello. Would you like to start us off? Sure. Thank you. As you mentioned, I'm Christian Bryant. I'm president of the Portland Area Rental Owners Association, as well as a real estate investor association, and also own my own property management firm. By sheer happenstance and coincidence of timing, I also happen to be a tenant through all of this, too. But...
 First, I did want to say thank you for inviting us here for testimony. And I do commend the city on creating both the oversight committee for the mandatory relocation ordinance as well as the Rental Services Commission.
 And I think, you know, whether you end up liking the end result or not, at the very least, being asked to voice your opinion without being in one of the elected seats that actually cast a vote, that's the most that you can ask for. So I do appreciate that. And, you know, we can't deny the fact that we have had housing issues before.
 and, you know, all of us that represent a group of citizens in this city, of course, get our own, you know, self-selected data set because we hear from our group specifically, you know.
 I don't hear from, you know, get calls directly from tenants that are being displaced, but I do hear from, you know, those landlords that only have one unit or two units. And I'm sure those just sitting here at my table would say the same, just the opposite, you know. So recognizing that, you know, I can only speak to what I know. And I know I'll try to keep it somewhat brief because I know city council has already heard the majority of my statements through the committees that I serve on.
 First, I do think definitely not all. There's always room within legislation to help make things better for pockets of the community that are not being served properly or being protected properly. I do think a lot of the issues that have risen to the top of our debates lately,
 started off with a major divide or discrepancy between supply and demand. I know that's not the cause of everything, but us landlords, we're very competitive. Under a normal market condition, you'll see a 10% swing in rent amounts just from September to January.
 just going from summer to winter because we're very competitive with each other and we want to move, get tenants into our units and give them a place to live to be able to collect rent. Also, when there is more competition among landlords, we don't, and you don't see rents going up because we're competing with each other. You don't see us asking tenants to move out to do major renovations because we haven't seen increases in rents to really justify it. So one thing I would...
 do have to put out there which i have said from the beginning um you know i do agree with uh mike in that uh this is for all intents and purposes does seem like our only specific tool that we have at our disposal right now to address those issues
 But I do feel that it should remain a temporary fix because I do believe in the long term with landlords and tenants working together along with the city that a lot of issues will at least be alleviated. I don't think you'll ever solve all of the problems though. There's two other main points I just want to make sure I brought up here. One being on the one unit exemption issue.
 I do completely understand if there's a landlord that has many different units and they've got plenty of reserves built up and everything, I can see the reasoning.
 With our association, the vast majority, easily 85% plus, have less than three units. And the majority of the landlords that we work with, they manage things themselves. But they are, of course, the section of landlords that manage themselves and go out of their way to be part of associations like ours to make sure they know the laws and are managing them properly and responsibly.
 But there are significant amount that if they have even just one, two, even three units to where a $4,500 expense, which currently would be the maximum that it could be, that could be the difference between them being able to afford their next two mortgage payments on that property or not.
 I would hope we would maintain that exemption. But if we do have to see that go away, I would strongly urge the city to really look at how they can support those landlords that do find themselves in that position. Because the reality is if you do have a landlord in that position, it's either going to be something where their property gets foreclosed on or they're forced to sell it.
 And if it's a property that's four units or less, you have a significant amount of first-time investors out there wanting to get into being a landlord as part of their retirement plan or whatever it may be. And typically that first multi-unit they buy is going to be something where they live in one of the units. Or if it's a single-family home, there's still pretty low supply on the sales side of the market as well. And so you have a high chance of someone buying it that's just going to live in it.
 Each one of those, maybe losing 50 units here or there, doesn't necessarily have a huge impact. But when you combine that with people thinking about getting into the industry, second-guessing investing in the city of Salem, I feel like long-term that could definitely have a significant impact on our supply. Okay.
 So I would urge that we don't remove the exemption for one units, but if we absolutely have to, we definitely need some sort of plan in place to not lose those units just because the landlord can't afford it. Last thing, just really quick, I didn't – I just noticed it when housing was talking about the exemptions in their presentation.
 One of the exemptions that's proposed states that that unit would be exempt if it became unlivable by no action or interaction by a landlord or tenant. I'm sure this would probably get sussed out through the rules or through – We fixed that. We took the tenant or tenant out. Oh, okay. On their presentation, it was still in there. That was perfect. So thank you, Commissioner Fritz. That was exactly what I was going to bring up. So that's another – that is a problem.
 So we'll hear from housing on that at the end. Yeah, basically. Thank you. I thought that that had been taken out. Yeah, basically just the way it was written, technically a tenant could purposely damage the unit to where it's unlivable and still qualify for relocation. But if you remove the word tenant out of that particular sentence, then I think it creates the intent, but technically.
 Something to be discussed. So I had actually brought that to the staff's attention earlier and was under the impression that that had been fixed. So I think it's a scrivener's error. We'll have the housing folks look at that. Thank you. Other than that, thank you very much for having me. I appreciate it. Thank you for your service.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to give testimony today about the permanent relocation ordinance. For the record, my name is Katrina Holland, Executive Director of Community Alliance of Tenants, member of the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee, and also a member of the Rental Services Commission.
 Community Alliance of Tenants is a tenants rights organization that served this community for the last almost 22 years. As advocates for tenants, especially those most impacted by the housing crisis, for many of us this crisis is not new, it has stretched decades for people of color and those with barriers to housing. And we believe that the permanent relocation ordinance before us today is an important step forward toward the symbiotic housing relationship we wish to see between landlords and tenants.
 We're hopeful that this policy sets a precedent, and we believe it prioritizes a healthy balance in a severely unbalanced relationship right now in the state of Oregon, despite the long-term tools that we need.
 While we have a ways to go when it comes to long-term changes in landlord-tenant law at the state level to help support a healthier populace, more stable economic conditions across different income spectrums, and more stable neighborhoods and children, relocation is a step in the right direction. So thank you for your leadership. Thank you for the process. I can't lie, it was long and arduous.
 but it was very necessary and I think we talked through some of the issues that we needed to talk through.
 We are supportive of permanent relocation policy for the following reasons. Of course, the reasons that Mayor Wheeler mentioned today. In addition, involuntary displacement affects us all as a community, especially when it leads to homelessness. We believe and have seen and we've all experienced the externalities created by a business decision between one person and another, and we don't believe that it has to continue to fall on the rest of the population to make up that burden.
 Relocation assistance also helps to increase the likelihood of successful relocation for tenants in unexpected crisis. Involuntary displacement due to a rent increase or no-cause termination can not only be anxiety-provoking and create homelessness or transience, but it creates a situation where sometimes they're not able to relocate and they end up on our streets. So relocation helps to buffer that.
 We also believe that this arrangement brings more balance, as I said earlier, to the relationship that should be symbiotic. Involuntary displacement is a severe burden on a tenant in any circumstance, whether exempted or unexempted. And this burden, triggered by a landlord's conscious actions, should not rest solely on the shoulders of a tenant. Relocation helps to share that burden created by one party in that relationship.
 Relocation also helps in a time when we don't have the tools we need to address involuntary displacement in the first place. Absent the necessary common sense rent stabilization policies and just cause eviction standards, relocation helps to soften the blow of involuntary displacement, which at present is legally permitted in Oregon. And the outcomes we see every day is unreasonable rent increases and discriminatory or retaliatory no-cause evictions.
 Finally, though it doesn't eradicate the fear, we do believe that it helps to lessen the fear of retaliation. We have seen on our hotline that some people are a little bit more, they're not as apprehensive to ask for necessary repairs and fear of retaliation because relocation helps to add a layer of protection there.
 While we express strong support for this relocation ordinance, please also understand our grave concerns, which CAT has sent via email to the mayor's office and a few others, on February 26, 2018. We are hoping for further amendments, hopefully effective today because they are simple, that we feel help to demonstrate commitment to some very important values that we have disclosed as a city. And the city of Portland has identified its commitment to equity.
 Um, first our city and community have expressed a commitment to supporting those most impacted by the housing crisis and the city, um, has boldly claimed equity goals. However, the current long-term policy includes a flat exemption for federal state and local regulated affordable housing, um, for 60 plus years in subsection G eight. If anyone needs relocation the most, even in nuanced circumstances, it is this population.
 Due to severe shortage of affordable housing that is both regulated and market rate, when families are displaced from affordable housing, they most often have to relocate to market rate housing, or they end up on the streets or end up on the couches, often sometimes ending up on waiting lists that can be months to years long. Relocation payments are critical in these scenarios as they are the least likely population to be able to save for an unexpected displacement event and are already scraping by.
 As advocates for this population for almost 22 years, we know that exempting them from support during voluntary displacement could be one of the biggest mistakes we make as a city. The Relocation Technical Advisory Committee never talked about a straight exemption, and we talked through different nuances or different circumstances in which there should be or could be additional support.
 So Community Alliance of Tenants is requesting that this language be stricken from the code, and we specifically request that council mandate the Rental Services Commission to take up the issue with local affordable housing providers to talk through this more nuanced language that addresses the issues highlighted in the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee during deliberation in the past year.
 around federal changes, rent changes, income changes, and more. A straight exemption would not hold up our values to supporting those most impacted, nor does it demonstrate a commitment to equity, as data shows that based on median incomes, people of color, low-wage workers, and folks with disabilities, seniors, are most likely to live in some of these regulated affordable properties. Katrina, if I can just interrupt. Sure. I also thought that was a curious exemption, as you know, when I questioned a few minutes ago. Sure.
 I mean, stripping away all the code of 60-plus years and all that, are we talking about Home Forward, basically? I think we're talking about a number of groups. And in transparency, I emailed some of these affordable housing providers to let them know that we would be taking this position. And one indicated interest in engaging in this process of talking with the Rental Services Commission to develop this nuanced language. And a couple others said thanks for the heads-up.
 But no, it is not just Home Forward. Okay. I'll want to ask some questions of staff more about this later. Okay, thank you. Secondly, the City of Portland has prioritized equitable access. We talked in the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee about prescribing what kinds of information needs to be included in notice to tenants who are eligible for relocation assistance. Okay.
 And while we all agreed that a form isn't necessary and CAT withdrew its request for a form, we did agree that prescribing language should be included in this ordinance. This is to prevent a scenario where a landlord would simply place in a notice, see Portland City Code Section 30.01.085.
 And I think that we can all agree that city code is fairly cumbersome, even for folks who are used to legalese and jargon. This subsection does not help inform tenants of their rights and responsibilities as currently written. It could be abused. So we are requesting an amendment to include in the ordinance at least what type of information needs to be present there.
 and include that in city code. We believe this language should at least mandate that a notice to a tenant must include the amount of relocation to which the tenant is entitled, the time frame in which the tenant has to respond, if applicable, and the timing of payment.
 So, yeah, a bunch of other things that are going to come up. Katrina, before you get off that, and I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I want to make sure we honor what you are saying. I will have the Housing Bureau come up at the end of all of this, and so I'm making a running list of issues that we want to talk about.
 I've had this conversation with the Housing Bureau, and there are actually multiple opportunities for tenant notification. And so I personally didn't think that was necessary, and I'll make sure that we have that conversation at the end. Thank you. Thank you. And could I just ask, I've been out of the country for the last two weeks. Did you send that email about your concerns to me as well? I did not. I sent it to Mayor Wheeler's office, but I can definitely send it. Thank you. Okay.
 So again, while this is a positive direction and the process that we undertook as a city to negotiate relocation policies, we believe it's pertinent to make sure that this policy does not leave most impacted populations out in the dark. And making that exemption does leave folks out in the dark.
 So we believe that these two amendments will help prevent that from happening. We're grateful to see the City of Portland take leadership on this issue and look forward to moving with you in a positive direction. Thank you. Mayor, I have a question. I don't want to dive in too deep, but for the first concern you raised, the flat exemption, I just want to make sure I understand. You've already acknowledged it's a nuanced situation. Mm-hmm.
 Is it very common for a household to receive a no-cause eviction or a double-digit rent increase if they are in income-restricted housing, unless their income exceeds the threshold?
 So I will be entirely honest and say that I'm probably not the best person to ask. What I can share with you is that we have had several members within Community Alliance of Tenants who have received rent increases and regulated affordable housing that has caused a displacing event that forced them to relocate into private market housing. So we have seen it on the ground, and it is very distressing. Some folks...
 I believe one person that I can think of off the top of my head did end up homeless. Yeah. And one of the scenarios that we're trying to avoid is in a circumstance where there is an actual income restriction, and that's not always the case. When the household income exceeds that restricted level, they either have to move out or the nonprofit affordable housing organization
 property manager loses the tax exemption on that property. So that's a scenario where I think an exemption makes sense because it would be a burden to that housing provider
 There are definitely some nuanced situations in which I think exemptions are appropriate, but there are some others that a flat exemption does not include in which relocation would be extremely necessary. Okay. And so that's why we're recommending that the Rental Services Commission take this up with affordable housing providers to talk through those and include it in the language. Great. Thank you. But to be clear, to take the language out for now so that they are covered. Folks in those properties are covered. All right. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Christina Dirks. I am a staff attorney with Legal Aid Services of Oregon. Thank you for inviting me to come speak with you today. I am a member – I was a member of the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee. I'm currently a member of the Rental Services Commission. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. As an attorney at Legal Aid, I solely represent low-income tenants. That's my practice area. Okay.
 I've seen from working with clients directly the devastating impact that the housing crisis has had on the most vulnerable members of our community. Experts tell us that there is significant proven financial, emotional, social, and educational harm suffered by tenants as a result of involuntary displacement.
 We saw on the ground that the passage of the temporary relocation ordinance provided tenants with a critical reprieve by stabilizing the rental market. As a result of the ordinance, we know that tenants saw fewer exorbitant rent increases, less wholesale displacement of buildings for renovation and subsequent changes in the demographics like we saw at the Normandy. And if I could just briefly give a shout out to the tenants of the Normandy who are amazing and they're here today in the balcony. And we saw fewer no-cause notices.
 And I know from my casework and from those of my colleagues at Legal Aid that no-cause notices are usually a mask for retaliation or often a mask for retaliation or discrimination.
 The passage of a permanent relocation ordinance is an important step towards recalibrating the power imbalances between tenants and landlords right now in our market. I commend the mayor and the commissioners for lifting the single unit exemption. We know that the single unit exemption disproportionately impacts some of those vulnerable renters, including larger families, as well as individuals with screening barriers that make it hard to get into housing.
 This is an important equity issue. I also support the reporting requirements of landlords to submit a form to PHB if they're going to claim an exemption status. Not only does this give us the ability to gather important data, but it hopefully will put some check on potential abuses from landlords misusing the exemptions.
 Finally, I want to support the requirement of landlords notifying tenants of their rights to relocation when issuing a triggering notice. Many tenants still do not understand their rights under the relocation ordinance and this notification is an important step to helping to educate those of these critical tenant protections.
 However, there are some gaps in coverage in the current ordinance and I think the ordinance could be improved. I believe the following suggestions will make the ordinance better for tenants and also further the policy intentions behind the ordinance. The first is in the notification requirements I just mentioned in subsection .
 The proposed language fails to require landlords to notify tenants of their right to relocation prior to the renewal of a rental agreement. And as you all know, one of the triggering events is if a landlord fails to renew a rental agreement on substantially the same terms. Given the failure to renew, given that that is a triggering event, there seems to be no apparent reason why we want to leave that out of notification requirements.
 Tenants who are faced with a rent agreement renewal are often the least likely to be aware that they may be entitled to relocation. As you may have seen, most of the press and the educational materials around the ordinance focus on no-cause notices and the 10% rent increase. So lots of tenants don't know that this covers them as well. In addition, we have seen creative ways that landlords have started lease renewal options since the passage of the ordinance.
 What we have seen is that landlords will often creatively present lease renewal options as a tenant choice, leading a tenant to believe that they are electing one of these choices, and it's not a landlord actually issuing a notice that would trigger relocation. And we have talked to many, many tenants who were unaware that they were entitled to relocation based on these options that they were given. And so for this reason, because of this misleading communication, I think it's especially important that we include those tenants in being advised of their rights to relocation.
 My second suggestion is in subsection C, where it exempts associated housing costs from the analysis of whether a new rental agreement is substantially the same as the old one and would trigger relocation.
 We have seen that the exclusion of associated housing costs is not only harmful to tenants, but has created a loophole for landlords that they are actively using. Since the passage of the ordinance, I have seen landlords issue excessive increases to associated housing costs, such as parking or pet rent, in order to avoid having to pay a 10% rent increase.
 The end result is that landlords are getting more than a 10% rent increase, just in a different form. And more importantly, the tenants are paying more than a 10% rent increase in a different form. But the economic burden to tenants is exactly the same. And unfortunately, these tenants are not entitled to relocation under the current version of the proposed ordinance.
 And I'd like to point out that at the Relocation Technical Advisor Committee, we specifically discussed and agreed on this issue. We all felt strongly, or I know the tenant advocates felt strongly, the landlords agreed. They may have not felt strongly that it did not seem appropriate to allow a landlord to get around relocation by raising costs that are under their control, that are associated housing costs in a way that's not appropriate.
 to avoid having to pay relocation and issue a rent increase notice. I thought that was the purpose of this amendment. It doesn't do it, in your opinion? No.
 It doesn't. So my understanding of the purpose of the amendment, so, and I'm sorry this is a bit too, if I divert too much, but there was confusion under the prior language in that it didn't address situations where a lease renews automatically on its own terms versus a landlord just saying, yes, I'll renew your rental agreement, but there's different terms. So in the first situation, the landlord...
 automatically has to pay relocation and the tenant doesn't have to elect for it. In that second situation, the tenant would have to elect to say, no, I'm not renewing. I want relocation. So I believe the intent of the ordinance now is to separate them to make those two situations clear when each one
 would occur in the timelines and what a tenant needs to do to elect for relocation. So basically we just haven't got the language quite right yet? Yeah. So it would be my suggestion that we just strike the language or associate housing costs from subsection C and that would address this loophole that's been created. But then it wouldn't, because then...
 Landlords were, as you say, adding on utilities or pet costs. So I think if we strike the associated housing cost language, it would just be any rental agreement that's offered with substantially different terms would give the tenant the right to say, I don't want to renew and I want my relocation benefits. So, colleagues, I'll tell you why this is in, and this won't be popular, but I'm going to give you my best shot at it.
 I tried to focus, as my team and I in the Housing Bureau are writing this, on what costs can a landlord singularly control.
 plus what is legal. And our attorneys upstairs, and I've got to trust them because I'm not an attorney, advised us that we could not include utilities as part of that 10%. That's just the law. So that is what that is. Other things, parking fees, for example, storage fees, there is a choice there that the tenant can make. I realize it's not a good choice.
 And I realize it's not a happy choice, but it's not solely a choice made by the landlord. And there we didn't – so we chose not to include that because once you include it, then you're in the game of what else gets included. And we just didn't feel that was necessary for this ordinance. So, Mayor? Yes. Their choice is get rid of your pet, get rid of your car, get rid of your stuff, and don't pay the increased cost? Is that what you're saying? Yeah.
 The focus was making sure that people and their families had a roof over their head in a housing emergency, and we thought it was secondary, not unimportant, but secondary as to whether they have to park their car on the street, which is free in most neighborhoods in this community, or not.
 in immediate proximity to the rental unit. Again, tough tradeoff, but that's what we made. Mayor? It's helpful to understand. Fishner Fish. I just want to acknowledge that what complicates the question of utilities is that for many of the multifamily buildings we're talking about, there are no individual meters. So there's a significant challenge in figuring out how is that figure calculated to begin with. Is it...
 Is it the total amount of water that the landlord claims is consumed in the building and all of the outflow divided by the number of units based on square footage or just an aggregate? Or occupancy. Or occupancy. Does it include, for example, the water used in a separate part of the building that has washer-dryers that people pay for? Is that cost being included? So while I think...
 There may be some legal prohibition on us, strictly speaking, in terms of what is the percent increase in utilities in a perfect world if you could calculate per person. I don't think most multifamily buildings divide up the utility rates in any consistent way. And so I'm a little concerned that we may be putting form over substance here. And we ought to take a deeper dive here to make sure that people are not –
 larding up utility, and it may be illegal, but it doesn't prevent people from doing it, charging excessive utility rates for the purpose of getting around the 10% cap. Fair statement, and I'll get to Commissioner Fritz in a moment.
 it. But I want to respond to that. This falls under the category of letting the perfect be the enemy of the good, because then it gets into this question, and it opens up a question on a whole separate issue that we had in this council chamber two weeks ago around how do we account for individual metered units.
 And I think we acknowledged on this council that that's a subject that the council has not been able to solve over a period of years. So rather than injecting that complex policy question into this ordinance,
 We decided, number one, we'll uphold state law, which says we can't include the utility rates anyway under the 10%. And if we want to take this up, I'm all for it, but let's do it in the conversation we're having around the utility question. And we've empaneled smart people like these on the RSC to potentially be able to take these up. But I don't think it is wise to try to...
 close a policy question that's been out there for many, many years unresolved in the context of an ordinance that we're trying to get through in the midst of a housing emergency. And, Mayor, just without – I don't want to – we have lots of testimony to get to. We're going to be breaking sometime around midnight for breakfast and then come back. Pancakes, I hope. But the question the council debated recently was how do you allocate a discount program when you can't measure usage?
 That's an entirely different question as to how do landlords allocate water. And if there is, let's say, for example, if the council were to say there's a 3% increase in utility rates this year, but a renter gets a bill showing a 10% increase, that ought to be a red flag that something is happening that's out of the ordinary. And if it is designed to circumvent the cap...
 Whether we close that now or later, that's something of our concern. I will add this to the list for the Housing Bureau, and this may actually be a legal counsel question. I do not believe, or at least it's been represented to me, that landlords in Oregon already cannot legally charge more for utilities than what their utility bill actually is. Technically that is the case, but depending on the-
 depending on the circumstance, we have people who are circumventing that law. Another trend that we have seen is where we have a flat rate that is charged per occupancy for water, sewer, and garbage on top of actual usage. So you have people who lived in a unit for a certain number of years, and water, sewer, and garbage was included, or it was separate, but they never had a per-person occupancy fee, and all of a sudden they were added a per...
 per person occupancy fee or it went up or something of that nature. Which is, I mean, yeah, it's sticky, but it does happen. But you're right, Mary. I mean, the utility provisions are clearly regulated by Chapter 90 of the Landlord-Tenant Act. Yes. I think a way that this could be addressed is you could really speak to associated housing costs under the control of the landlord, right, that are set by the landlord. Because utilities are not set by the landlord. They may be padding it in ways that are unlawful under the Landlord-Tenant Act.
 But there is lots of housing costs that are set by the landlord and just fully benefiting the landlord. And they're probably covering some costs, but they're setting that amount out. Because I think the end result is you can raise the associated housing costs so far that you force someone to move out without relocation. A new person moves in and you raise the rent however much you want and you're starting from ground zero. So you raise the rent 200% or whatever the market will bear. Not that it's 200%, but maybe it is. Yeah.
 And so it just perpetuates a problem that is a big loophole that we are seeing actively being taken advantage of. Fair enough. So, colleagues, would you like to hear from the Housing Bureau or go to public testimony? Oh, I'm sorry. She's not done. I'm sorry. I have one more. I apologize. It's okay. I'm sorry. Commissioner Fritz had a question. Yes. Well, I was wanting to make – Ms. Holland made the point that I was making. We had heard that where previously there was no utility payment,
 suddenly a new you are being charged $200 for utility which was previously included in the rent and that was what I thought this was to address. So I want to get all the points on the table. I appreciate the clarification that the Mayor did. Since you're here wondering
 how just deleting or associated housing costs solves the problem. Because if you previously didn't get utilities on your bill and then you suddenly get 200 bucks, that's an associated housing cost. So I kind of see those as two issues. I see the unbundling of services as one issue and the raising of associated housing costs as another issue. I have argued and successfully argued that under the current version of the ordinance, the unbundling is already covered as a substantial lease charge. Okay. Thank you. However, I think...
 associate housing costs that are already existing in the contract, but then with the new contract, they're raised significantly. Those would not be covered under this ordinance. Got you. Thank you. Yeah, thanks. Maybe, I'm sorry, maybe there's another way to slice this, which is if we're not going to, if we choose not to close this potential loophole where there's the opportunity for padding,
 Maybe what we ought to do in year one is make sure that tenants get accurate reporting of what the actual annual increases are of these rates. So we just came through a year in which there was no increase in garbage. Mm-hmm.
 And there was about a 4% increase in combined water sewer. I will tell you the Water Bureau gets contacted by tenants saying, I can't believe how much my water and sewer rates are going up, and they have no relationship to the rates that the council adopted. Right. So something is going on. I think it may be that in year one we deal with it as a notice question. You know, take a look at your bill. If this goes up, call community lines of tenants, get the information. Maybe later we look at it as a closing of the loophole issue. Mm-hmm.
 So my third and final point is regarding the exemptions. And while I do not support the expanded list of exemptions, I want to focus my suggestion on the need to notify tenants of a landlord's exempt status. For some of the new exemptions that were added, the tenants may not know that they are not entitled to relocation and the landlord is exempt. In order to give these tenants clarity, I would suggest that the ordinance require landlords to provide tenants with a copy of the exemption reporting form that they submit to PHB at the same time that the landlord would,
 otherwise be required to provide the notification to the tenants of their rights to relocation under subsection D. That's all I have. Thank you for your time and thank you for your commitment to tenant protection. Excellent. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Okay, so with that we move to public testimony unless colleagues did you want to hear from the Housing Bureau on any of these issues right up front? Why don't you come on up? I guess I'm inclined to want to delete the exemption that relates to
 Dwelling unit regulated as affordable housing by a federal, state, or local government.
 for a period of at least 60 years. Could we hear from the Housing Bureau on that? Because this is a fairly complex issue, and before we start putting amendments on the table, I think we should hear what the logic was. So, Commissioner, Shannon Callahan, Housing Bureau. So the regulated affordable housing is actually regulated on an attendance income level, and it's allowed to go up based on the MFIs and a number of different things in a regulatory agreement.
 We don't think that it's a significant factor and that this amendment is actually necessary. However, our affordable housing partners are extremely concerned about the removal of this amendment and quite frankly have some concerns about the length and duration of the 60 years. We don't necessarily regulate all of the affordable housing in the city of Portland. Much of it was created by the city.
 created before the 60-year requirement happened. I'm particularly thinking of some properties with HUD contracts, et cetera, that may be owned by a partner like Home Forward. It's clearly a policy choice by this council, but it is something that our folks in the community who are providing affordable housing in partnership with the city are extremely concerned that this is –
 I believe the removal would be problematic for them, and that's what I can... Don't these entities issue no-cause evictions? Under the previous housing commissioner, you required that all new regulatory agreements going forward would be prohibited no-cause evictions, and that policy has been in place for a few years. They would be subject to... There's also another... They are also usually subject to the Uniform Relocation Act, so...
 Sorry, I see what you're saying, though, Commissioner. Yeah, and I guess, I mean, first of all, I asked a question about this when Matt was presenting because it's very cryptically written. I mean, it sounds like something straight out of a tax code or something. So I'm trying to figure out what exactly are we talking about. I mean, I thought it was Home Forward, but it sounds like it's not. Home Forward would definitely be included, but it would be any regulated affordable housing as long as it was affordable for a period of 60 years or longer.
 But that would include many of Home Forward's units as well as many other affordable housing providers in the community. Like nonprofit providers? Correct. That sounds like a big number. I mean, it sounds like it could be a big number of units to me. Do we have any quantification? Can I throw a scenario out there just so we could possibly understand when this becomes an issue? A family is an affordable unit.
 That rent is based on their income. Their income goes up significantly enough that while they wouldn't be forced to move out, their rent could go up more than 10%.
 and we don't want that to trigger reload. Is that a scenario we're trying to avoid? There are a lot of different scenarios. I think under this one, there are renters who live in regulated housing, and part of the lease agreement or the contract that they're in is that they pay 30% of their income toward rent.
 So, yes, you could have a scenario where somebody is earning very little money. Maybe they're working part-time and they're in regulated affordable housing, or maybe they're not working at all. And so the subsidy that is helping them stay in the rental unit is covering most of the housing cost. And then when they see a significant increase in their income, their lease agreement should—and
 Again, I don't know what all of the lease agreements say between the providers of affordable housing. We don't have a full list.
 compilation of all the terms of the lease agreement, but in that scenario they would have to pay 30% of their annual income toward rent. And that could be a significant increase, but that is the policy framework under which a lot of affordable housing with subsidy built in is regulated. And then there's the other scenario that I already mentioned, which is that the income goes up so much that they no longer qualify for
 for the subsidy in that housing provider would either have to pay RELO or they would lose their tax-exempt status. Those are two scenarios that I think are reasonable for us to want to avoid.
 That is another scenario where we need to – I mean, the virtue of regulated units is that once individuals are making enough money, that we can move a new family in. We have a deficit of 23,000 affordable housing units in the city. And so part of this, that was that sense of, well, as people can earn income and move into the private market, we need – this is what we heard from some of the affordable housing providers. Right. So could we be more specific with the language? Sure.
 It says if the increase is driven by the tenant's income, then that is not a reload trigger because we're hearing from CAT and from Legal Aid that they're concerned with other scenarios that are not a reload trigger.
 that aren't triggered by the tenant's income where that tenant should be entitled to reload. Can I, can I, Colleen, can I just make a comment? Having served on the Home Forward Board and then as Housing Commissioner, as I listen to this very thoughtful discussion, I'm beginning to think of a hundred examples where there's a federal regulatory agreement, a state regulatory agreement, we have a regulatory agreement, there's, there's,
 I mean, we have a policy, informal policy, that when we acquire preservation properties and people no longer qualify, we grandfather them in because we don't want to get in the business of acquiring properties and then evicting people. So I can think of many different examples. Here's the question I want to ask. Is this exemption either under Dan's view, which is eliminate it, or the current proposal, which is include it?
 Is it an urgent issue that needs to be resolved tonight without the benefit of a lot of information? Or can we choose either to keep it in or keep it out and come back with some feedback from our affordable housing partners to better understand the issue? Because I have a feeling – Yeah, and that was my proposed amendment. It wasn't to delete it outright and forget about it, but just delete it for now, have the Rural Services Commission and whoever the other affected parties are –
 come back to us on it at a later date. I'm not done with my old one, but here, I'll get that to you. Okay. What's the harm? So I guess what we're asking is, what's the harm in that? We are talking about partners that
 that have substantial due process protections already in place for their tenants based on regulatory agreements, state and federal law and the like. So what's the harm in taking it out altogether and just putting a two-month clock on bringing back something that we can all understand that's tailored to the situation that our nonprofit and federal partners have raised?
 That is an option that is available to you. I will, again, reiterate just from the affordable housing partners I talked to, they are very concerned about this provision. And so I will let you know that at the outset. And without the benefit of having the partners here who are dealing with these very complex regulatory agreements, I would be loathe to say what the proper response is. But it is indeed your policy cause, City Council. Well, the flip side is we could keep it in.
 and send it to RSC and have them look at it. I mean, either way we're going to have issues.
 I would imagine that we need to look at this and clarify. I mean, I think also what Katrina was noting about the incidents where this is coming up, I mean, I would like to have more information about what she's particularly concerned about and especially what the tenants are experiencing. I think, as you said, Commissioner, there are many different varieties of regulated housing. Oh, it's a hornet's nest. And our intent was the 60-year policy was not to cover those shorter-term durations of
 things that are the 10-year tax exemptions that the city gives or otherwise. The intent was for long-term committed affordable housing providers. And so even this was a compromise that our providers are not particularly pleased with. By the way, no disrespect to our oversight body that's advising us. This is a highly specialized area based on regulatory agreements with federal and state.
 whatever the council decides to do, I would feel more comfortable if we knew within 30 days we get a written submission from our nonprofit partner saying, here's the problem, here's the real-world examples, write it so even I can understand it. And then the council can decide, either it's so clear and we'll act legislatively or we'll seek outside advice.
 Right now I think the target is a moving target, and it's almost impossible to understand what's the problem we're trying to solve. So, Commissioner Fritz, I will commit to that, and I will bring it to the RSC immediately. Commissioner Fritz or Fish? I was responding to Commissioner Fish. I'm sorry. Did I say Fritz? Who did I say? Well, we often do it at least once. That guy over there. Sorry. I do it sometimes too. I consider it an honor, but I mean it's – Good-looking guy on the end.
 I will commit to bringing that to RSC ASAP, and you have the leadership of the Housing Bureau right here hearing that directive. Well, I guess I still, my preference is to omit it, to do it the other way around, omit it, and then have those groups come back to us, and then we'll add it back in. Because, you know, all I see here really is, quite frankly, it's a double standard being created. There's a motion on the table. Is there a second? Yes.
 I second it. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman and a second from Commissioner Eudaly. Can I give a rationale? Certainly, yes. Yeah, I mean, it's a bit of a double standard in my opinion because we are saying to, on the one hand, these are nonprofit housing providers that we value and cherish as partners, as we have for a long time. But let's face it, there's also a lot of landlords that have been out there providing affordable housing for a long time too. And we're sort of saying...
 We're going to not be so concerned about what the policies and practices of the nonprofits as we are with the for-hire or for-profits. So I think it's fair to strike it and educate us all about it because it is – we obviously need more education about the issue here. And then we'll probably cave and put it back in is my prediction. Well, and I would just like to say –
 So I want to be clear. I'm not going to cave. I don't think we should. I trust the folks sitting in front of us that are the housing bureau who have actually had the conversations with the providers. And we have informed this ordinance based on that feedback. As I said right up front, that doesn't mean we're going to catch every single eventuality. This is imperfect.
 This is not a just cause eviction framework. This is a reload framework that we are putting in as a stopgap measure because we don't have action at the state level. So, again, I caution us, let's not let perfect be the enemy of the good. And for every one of these things,
 These are complex tradeoffs, and anything we do here can have unforeseen consequences. So I just caution us to be making substantive policy changes on the fly. These guys did a good job of doing their homework and bringing us an ordinance with as much input and education and information as possible. Commissioner Fish. I do think Dan makes a valid point in this regard.
 We have spent a lot of time crafting these exceptions such that I think we can take them and generally explain the problem we're trying to solve, and we've had a lot of feedback. For the life of me, I still don't understand the problem we're trying to solve here, and there may be a problem we're trying to solve. There may be a good faith thing, and Dan calls it caving. I call it legislating. If they come back with a compelling argument as to why there should be something tailored, let's put it in.
 But in fairness, we have a lot more information about the other exceptions, and we've thought them through. I, sitting here, can't justify this exception because other than we've been told there's a problem. But I don't legislate that way. May I make a suggestion? Commissioner Fruits. It's two hours and ten minutes after this hearing was supposed to start, and people have been waiting to testify all that time. The amendment is on the table. We'll vote on it after the testimony so that people can give some input on it.
 Could I just quickly go through two more while we have the Housing Bureau here? It's fresh in my mind. May I just say one thing on the exemption? Certainly. I think that I will be frank with you. Our legal interpretation and the view of some of our nonprofit providers are at odds on this. And really what our view is that the triggering event when the income level rises and the way that the lease is structured should not trigger relocation. They have a difference in legal opinion on that. Mm-hmm.
 And that's why we put this in here. Our lawyers and we believe one thing, but they think differently. And because of all of the different regulatory agreements that they have had over a period of time with state and federal authorities, that is their concern. And so without going deeply into it, that is truly what the crux of why this is in here, and it is a compromise. So with that, I'll leave you to the rest of your questions. So Commissioner Fritz had put a –
 on the table. I believe it was described potentially as a Scribner's error. Would you like her to restate it or do you recall that and have a response? It's on the exemption number 10 where dwelling unit rendered uninhabitable not due to the action or inaction of a landlord or tenant. Under what circumstances would a rendered uninhabitable due to the action of a tenant, why would that be then reaffirmed
 triggering relocation? So what we're trying to get at with this exemption is actually those type of incidents that the mayor indicated earlier, which are either natural or man-made disasters. So we're trying to take out any of the equation from any action or inaction of any of the actual players. And so what we're trying to get to here, which will define more closely an administrative rule, are those situations where there's an earthquake or a flood.
 But also, as the mayor indicated, there could be a gas main explosion that is literally, which is why we talked about a stricter definition of natural disaster,
 and have chosen to go with this language. This is the advice and the telling of our attorneys in trying to craft to get to that point. I think we will clarify it. It was confusing language, but it does make sense that something can go wrong with a property. It's not landlord negligence or action. It's not tenant negligence or action, right?
 It's beyond everyone's control. So I understand what the intent is. I'm not sure I'm convinced this is the right language, but that's fine. Just one other piece to add. The reason that both parties in the lease agreement were included in the language of the exemption is the Bureau didn't want a scenario where we were being flooded with landlords claiming that their unit had been rendered uninhabitable due...
 due to the action of a tenant, and then we would need to rule on that because tenants... I understand. Yeah. So... Thank you. Lots of questions raised, various aspects of notifications, and this is my last before I let you go to the seat.
 Katrina had raised the question of, I believe it was Katrina had raised the question of notifications. I had made the statement that there are actually several opportunities in our communications to provide information. A subsequent request was made around notifications.
 notifying tenants, and I would add to that landlords, of their rights and responsibilities, including notification to tenants that they are moving into a unit or considering moving into a unit that is exempted. Is that something we can do through administrative rule? Yes, that is something that we can do.
 to a degree in an administrative role. Great. Colleagues, is there anything else before I move this to public testimony? Can I just ask one thing? Hi. Yes, legal counsel. Hello. Welcome.
 Thank you. I just want to clarify for the record and for the council clerk's benefit that there are two amendments on the table. The first amendment is Commissioner Fritz's amendment, which is to add the language in number 12. And the second amendment is Commissioner Saltzman's amendment, which is to strike the language in G8. Correct. Is that the extent of Commissioner Saltzman's amendment? There was an other language elsewhere. Well, it was to strike it and then to ask the input of the – have the Rental Services Commission –
 Come back to us with a recommendation. So that might be potentially a directive in the ordinance? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Great. How many people do we have signed up? Yes, Fish or Fish? So can we have a quick colloquy as you suggested? Why don't we take a three-minute break, please? No, no. We can do it on the record. Oh, sorry. We're on recess. Welcome back, everybody. We're back. I hope you had a nice break. Feeling refreshed. Feeling refreshed.
 So, Mayor, as you know, I have signaled my support for the compromise package that you and Commissioner Udaly have worked out. And now it seems like we have two amendments that have to be resolved tonight. In a few minutes, I have to leave because I'm representing the city on the Sanctuary City panel of Multnomah County Reads at the library. So I'm representing the city in that discussion.
 My understanding is we'll be voting on this next week and likely have an emergency clause that's added to this for the reasons that we discussed.
 My request is that if this hearing goes later and it appears there's one or more amendments that need to be voted on, but there's not consensus on the council, I would ask that you consider kicking the amendments to next week so the council can vote on the amendments and slap an emergency clause and adopt the matter. I think that is within our rights to do if we're still intending to put an emergency clause. I guess what I'm saying is if my vote matters –
 on one of these amendments. I would ask that you set it over for next week so that I can have the benefit of reviewing the testimony and voting, and then I think it's our intent to slap an emergency clause and adopt the whole thing. Very good. And in the event that we have these two amendments and none others, and I'm not saying that's how it will end, but in that event...
 Commissioner Fish, would you like to go on the record prior to departure on these two amendments in the event that we do vote on them today? Well, no, because I think it would be disrespectful because I'm not going to have the benefit of the testimony. I could...
 technically figure out some way to get on the phone and vote. I think you'll know whether there's a consensus around these amendments, Mayor. If there isn't a consensus, I would just ask that you consider kicking them to next week so I have an opportunity to cast a vote. And I hear you, and I want to underscore what you said because it's true. We are deploying you as the city council tonight to represent our interests. To the credit of you and Commissioner Udaily, this has been a very collaborative process. I want to make sure that we continue to do this in a collaborative way.
 Great. Thank you. So thank you. Public testimony time, the time you've all been waiting for. Two minutes, name for the record, don't need your address, 30 seconds before the yellow light. When your time is up, you'll hear a buzzer and see a red light. Please stop when your time is up because I don't like playing microphone cop. Verse 3, please. Okay. We have a total of 54. Very good. And the record sign-up sheets are closed now, correct? Okay. Sign-up sheets are closed. That's correct. Okay.
 The first three are Ron Garcia, Mary Mann, and Brian Park, and they'll be followed by Lois Molina, Hing Nam, and Ali Sayer. All right.
 Good evening, Mayor Wheeler, Commission. Thank you for having us. My name is Ron Garcia. I am the president of the Rental Housing Alliance of Oregon. I also had the privilege of being appointed to the Mayor's Residential Services Commission, where I recently resigned because of my opposition to the council's taking up the elimination of the single unit exemption.
 here tonight. So without any discussion from my part on the merits of the relocation package itself, I really do want to focus on the single unit exemption and perhaps ask you, even with the various other exemptions you're putting in it, to reconsider that.
 In my opinion, this proposal is not a win-win solution to a housing crisis that we face. It's not a win-lose issue for either tenants' rights, affordable housing advocates, or landlords. In my opinion, this proposal is a lose-lose issue that negatively affects all small landlords and tenants in Portland combined. Thank you.
 By imposing the same dollar amount of monetary penalties on individual owners as has already been levied on larger investors in order to legally terminate a rental contract or raise a rent, the results are simple and, in my opinion, predictable.
 If I'm one of the 25,000 individual owners who have recently seen the value of my condo or home appreciate in Portland due to the lack of supply and the high demand for housing and to now be burdened by the city with what amounts to me as a huge and punishing financial hardship for me individually by being required to pay thousands of dollars in cash for my tenants' relocation, I'm going to be compelled to absorb those expenses as another closing cost
 when I sell my house to a buyer who will not be an investor but will be an owner occupied, therefore taking one more rental unit out of the market and placing one more tenant in an already tight rental market, trying to find another place to live that doesn't exist. And I believe that the 25,000 unit, it's callous.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. And I personally am sorry that you did resign from the commission. I'd love to have your input and thoughts going forward, but I understand. You made a clear statement. I understand it. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Mary Mann. I'm part of the Rental Housing Alliance. Thank you.
 I co-own a duplex for 20 years in the city of Portland. However, I was 39 years old and renting before I bought my first home as a divorced single mom of a high school senior. The answer to the housing issue is not going to be solved by putting the burden on the very people that are taking all the risk to invest in rental property. The city is responsible with its 2016 rules with causing huge numbers of owners to raise their rents by 9.9%, myself included. I was under marketable.
 market and have been. Shame on you. I never would have raised my rents this way, but I did it out of fearful self-defense and good business practice. My business partner, against my advice, wanted to move some of his family into one side of the duplex. He paid the $4,200 relocation fee. That money is given before the tenants move out and before a final walkthrough is performed.
 Because of the failure of the tenants to disclose some conditions, we have over $2,000 in damages and costs that we cannot recover. The mail to notify this man and other tenant have been undeliverable. Since relocation money was paid in advance, they did not need the deposits to move into another apartment. So we are a victim because of this rule. If this passes for single units, I see the same thing happening to other owners.
 With the city's 2016 rules, landlords are tightening up their rental requirements so more marginal applicants will not be accepted to reduce the potential of having to give no-cause or for-cause evictions. The very tenant population the city says it wants to protect is being victimized by the city's very own rules.
 Please do not pass any more regulations on the rental property owners. We are not the bad guys here. Onerous and financially burdensome rules that micromanage rental relationships between renters and tenants under free market terms are destructive, nonproductive to solving our housing needs and very alienating to the business owners who provide the existing housing. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Brian Park, and I'm a primary care physician at a safety net clinic in southeast Portland.
 I am here today with the Metropolitan Alliance for Common Good, or MACG, to urge your support for the mandatory relocation assistance that ensures all renters are permanently protected from forced displacement. They tell us in medical school that patients are our best teachers, and there have been no better teacher to the plague of our housing crisis than a patient I'll call Stan. I met Stan my first year of residency, where his medical diagnosis read like a laundry list of chronic conditions. Diabetes, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure, COPD, chronic pain.
 These conditions led to many visits to the hospital, which broke Stan's heart, because if there's one thing he loved in life, it was his work as a carpenter. At our first visit, he shared a photo with me on his phone of a half-finished walnut wood dining table he was making. It was gorgeous. It was a promise of finishing that table that got Stan to agree to regular visits with our nutritionist, physical therapist, and myself.
 Stan thrived initially. He lost 30 pounds, his back pain became tolerable, and he started taking his medications for the first time in years. And lo and behold, he no longer needed the hospital visits. One moment erased months of Stan's hard work. Stan learned that his rent was increasing by 15%, and having to choose between housing and his health, Stan did what I've seen so many of my patients do. He chose housing.
 So he took half of his medications, doubled his workload, and in that process, ended right back up in the hospital. Because of his hospitalization, Stan couldn't work, which meant that he couldn't afford the rent increase, which meant he was forced to leave his home. And my last visit with Stan, he showed me a photo that was of that gorgeous walnut wood dining table, still unfinished, tumbled over into a dumpster.
 I have lost contact with Stan, and on good days I like to imagine that somehow he found a way to move in with his estranged daughter in Northern California. But on most days, days like this one, I know he is more likely to be houseless on the streets, his chronic conditions deteriorating. So they tell us during residency that patients are our best teachers, and Stan was an exceptional teacher. But I have failed Stan's test, and I refuse to fail again.
 During complex decisions in my work, much like the one before you today, to make the relocation assistance ordinance permanent for all renters, I've learned to follow my true north, the needs of our community, our collective belief that we act for the common good, and stand as pointing the way for us today, that true north. I ask that we all follow him here. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Next three are Lois Molina, Hung Nam, and Allie Sayre.
 And they'll be followed by Erna Walt, Mariah Ellen Clare, I believe is the last name, and Corey Brooks. So right now we have Lois Molina, Hung Nam, and Allie Sayre. Good afternoon. Would you like to start for us, please? Yes, thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Lois Molina. I'm a landlord. I believe I'm a fair landlord, but I agree that tenants should not have to rely on the benevolence of landlords for security and fairness.
 The proposed amendments to the emergency ordinance providing relocation expenses to displaced tenants is indeed not perfect, but I think it's an improvement to the original language, and I support the amendments and the efforts to equalize landlord-tenant power. In particular, I support the amendment that exempts a property owner who sincerely intends to use their property to house a family member and perhaps invest it in that property with that intention originally. Thank you.
 You've crafted here an effective stick in this policy, and I'd like to suggest what might be an effective carrot. If housing stability and rent stabilization is the goal, I suggest that landlords who offer long-term leases or lease renewals combined with a rent increase of no more than 2.5% per year be exempt from relocation expenses if the landlord decides not to renew the lease.
 I believe this might also address what you alluded to earlier, Mr. Mayor, the gap between for-cause evictions and no-cause evictions. It, again, is not a perfect solution, but I think that if you exempt those landlords who offer long-term leases while holding down rents,
 I believe that those landlords with a track record of doing that, with a track record of providing long-term security and holding down rents, can also be trusted to only deny a lease renewal if there is really just cause, while you work for a broader state policy on that.
 Thank you. That's an interesting idea. I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Hyung Nam. I'm a Portland Public Schools teacher and also live in an owner-occupied duplex where I rent a unit, and I've done that for 16 years.
 And I want to give you some perspective from my experience as a landlord, and I want to argue for a very strong RELO ordinance with very few exceptions, including do not have an exception for people like me who rent out a unit in an owner-occupied duplex. Okay.
 And, you know, I think this whole perspective where we're trying to, like, worry about all these things for landlords really, and talk about mom-and-pop landlords, leaves out how much we already subsidize landlords like me. We want to be fair to everyone in the city, not just to people who own property. And right now, people who own property, including landlords, get subsidies for their mortgages, mortgage interest. They write off all the costs that they incur. They...
 have depreciation against their income up to, I believe, $25,000 a year. And this is while many people now are tenants, and only one-third of tax filers even do itemized deductions. Meanwhile, every single year, people that own property are gaining wealth because their tenants are paying their mortgage
 property values are increasing in Portland, have been increasing in the last couple years by more than double digits. That means that for a median property of $400,000, people even now with, I think, 7% increase, they're basically gaining about $30,000 a year in wealth. Okay.
 just from their tenants paying their rent. So while we subsidize and allow landlords to spread the cost and tax expenditures and not pay taxes on so many of their costs, we basically subsidize landlords while they share nothing in the economic...
 that they gain and the wealth that they gain, and that's not fair. We call this passive income. We shouldn't rely on people living off of other people's hard-earned income. You've made a great point. Thank you. And again, folks, just reminding you, please stick to two minutes. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today about the relocation ordinance. My name is Allie Sayre. I'm a renter who lives in southeast Portland. I initially moved to Portland from Beaverton because I was working as an emergency medical technician for the local ambulance company and needed to be close to work.
 As a low wage worker, I was quickly priced out of my first place, so I moved in with a coworker. I lived there for two years and then was no cause evicted because he was selling his house. He sold the house for 400% of what he purchased it for. And this was before the relocation ordinance, but it was also an owner occupied property, so I bore the entire cost of moving.
 I then moved into the top floor of an owner-occupied duplex. I had been living there for a year and a half when I was given a 90-day notice of an 18.75% rent increase.
 Because the house was owner-occupied and duplex and my landlord's only property, they were exempt from having to pay relocation. And I again had to cover the thousands of dollars in moving costs. They recently posted the rental again for 50% more than what I paid.
 I do not understand why I am excluded from the relocation ordinance because my landlord did not own other properties. When you rent from a mom and pop landlord, you give up a lot of other things for lower rent. There
 There's no handyman. There's no clubhouse. There's no off-street parking. There's far less privacy when your landlord is a staircase away. The normal social contract would extend both ways. That is, the landlord would recognize that they are not providing the same level of service as a large company and would charge accordingly. Despite the fact that their home is currently worth a staggering 620% more than what they purchased it for, their rent increase letter made a reference to market rent.
 What is the justification for market rent when you have a 620% return on investment by doing nothing except being lucky that you're able to buy at the right time?
 A landlord lobbyist wants you to believe that landlords are barely covering their expenses. With all due respect, if being a landlord wasn't lucrative, they wouldn't have the money to afford lobbyists. Thank you. Please do what's right and extend relocation coverage to all renters in Portland and make relocation permanent. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. Thank you all. Are Erna Walt, Mariah Ellen Clare, I believe is the last name, and Corey Bartosz.
 Good afternoon. And they'll be followed by Daisy Kionis, Hilda Hernandez, and she's coming with an interpreter. Good afternoon. My name is Erna Walter, and I'm a tenant in a 23-unit apartment building in northeast Portland. I have been there 10 years, as have most of the tenants there, 10 to 15 years. The building was sold September of 2016 to Bristol Equities, and
 And then last year in September, September of 2017, we were sent a letter. In that year, we were just raised $65 for utilities. So the letter gave us three options. Option one, and we were paying, we were lucky enough to have a landlord that never raised our rent. We were paying $800 to $850 a month.
 So option one, residents may reserve their apartment to move back into after it has been renovated, pay a $500 execution deposit to reserve the apartment, along with signing an agreement which would require a new application. None of the tenants would have qualified for a new application because the rent was 100% increased to $1,650. Okay.
 The second option was to reserve another apartment that had been renovated, again a $500 execution fee, and signing another agreement with a new lease with updated terms. And option number three was offering the option of staying in our apartment, and the increase would be to $1,350. Okay.
 That would be about a $500, a 50% increase. There was no mention of reload in this letter. And not only that, but we received the letter October 1st, and we needed to have an answer to them by 5 p.m. on October 20th, 19 days.
 Oh, it went too fast. I wanted to thank Legal Aid, Community Alliance of Tenants, and Commissioner Udalli's office for all of their support, and Portland Tenants United.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and members of the City Council. I'm Maria Lynn Clare, a county resident here in Portland and a member of the Community Alliance of Tenants and Tenants Priced Out. I've been a resident here for a lot of years, and within the last three years, you know, I've noticed –
 All of the tenants that I know and people that have talked to me have had their lives turned upside down because of the high-priced rents. And I really appreciate you all coming up with ways to kind of offset this. It reminds me of the 1995 when we had a flood here, and we put sandbags downtown to keep the waters back.
 And so, you know, I know this is very, very complicated, but I think it's important in the discussion that we've had on both sides with both the renters and the landlords. I told one landlord before I came in here that some of the people that have abused the system, and I tell you, as renters, we feel abused because on the one hand,
 the price and then the law is such that they can keep doing that to us. And on the other hand, even when we get a relocation ordinance,
 then what happens is where do we go? And there are a lot of seniors that are getting priced out of these low-cost Section 42 buildings and the such. And so, you know, I hope you will further address that. One senior, for example, she's now sleeping on her mother's couch.
 who's 87 years old because she can't afford even low income housing so I think that there's a lot that we need to do here but I really appreciate everything that you've done so far and in my case I've been displaced four times
 and two of which were rent increases. So I really understand having to keep moving over and over again. So I thank you very much. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Corey Bartos. I'm a member of the Community Alliance of Tenants, though I'm speaking on my own behalf today to this esteemed body.
 I have been a resident of Portland for several years. I have physical and neurological disabilities, which make it difficult to engage in the actual act of moving with my partner slash caretaker having to take on most of the burden herself.
 This has resulted in lost wages, the intense stress of having to find a new residence with considerable haste, and scrambling our finances for the Herculean sum associated with the combined expenses of moving, including applying background checks.
 the initial move-in costs, truck rental, et cetera. If you're lucky, you get your full deposit back, but it's not a guarantee. In addition, it's a challenge to find a place which is compatible with me regarding my disabilities. I'm currently on SSI, and my partner is currently working per diem through a professional temp agency. Money is tight, but we're getting by. Excuse me.
 An eviction notice would force us to leave Portland. It would be catastrophic. We might even possibly have to leave Oregon. We've established ourselves in the city and neighborhood with the neighbors and local neighborhood association, business owners, the mail carrier, and volunteer groups. Even the neighborhood cat comes running when I happen to be down the street.
 the street to greet me. We vote, we donate to local schools, and we support others as they have supported us. Relocation assistance is necessary because without it, we would be ripped completely from the life we've built and the relationships that we've fostered, and there would be a great drain on our dignity and self-esteem, something not too often recognized. Um.
 Relocation wouldn't cover all costs, but it would cover a lot. Please, please keep us in Oregon, keep us in Portland, and keep our lives from a devastating obliteration.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. Can I just add one more sentence? One sentence. I'm so sorry. Yes. I was very disappointed that the new ordinance doesn't require landlords to mention RELO in their no-cause evictions or any kind of notice, as my letter was. Great. And I hope you heard me speaking with the Housing Bureau staff that we will do that through administrative rule, because I agree that is important. Thank you.
 Next three, please. Are Daisy Quiones and Hilda Hernandez, and she's coming with an interpreter. And they'll be followed by Edith Casterline, Joanne Hardesty, and Margo Black. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Um...
 Hello everybody. My name is Daisy Quinones for the record. Dear members of the council, again my name is Daisy Quinones. I am a lifelong Portlander, a former Multnomah Youth Commissioner, a renter, and I currently work as a tenant education coordinator with the Community Alliance of Tenants and the Immigrant Refugee Community Organization.
 I work with tenants in the Portland metro area and across the state to inform them about their rights as renters with the goal that this knowledge and support will empower them to demand safe, stable homes that will allow them to thrive in all aspects of their lives.
 We regularly get calls on our renters' rights hotlines from tenants calling in with large rent increases and no-cause evictions. For some Portland tenants, learning about the relocation ordinance and that they may be entitled to it provides a real breath of relief, a more tangible chance at some level of stability during this process of displacement.
 I'd like to also take this moment to thank Commissioner Udailey, Commissioner Fish, and Mayor Wheeler for doing what is right and protecting more of our neighbors by favoring the elimination of the one-unit landlord loophole. This, along with making the relocation permanent, is a step in the right direction to protect a greater number of our Portland renters.
 CAT supports tenants in municipalities across Oregon working to gain these same renter protections in their own communities. As a Chicana woman here in Portland, daughter to Mexican immigrants, I feel the need to highlight the fact that the vast majority of our community members of color can no longer afford to live within the city. This leaves communities of color vulnerable to continued and repeated displacement in our neighboring cities where these kinds of renter protections don't exist. Thank you.
 Portland cannot be the only city with these kinds of renter protections. I hope you, as our municipal leadership, will continue to take bold action to protect our most vulnerable and most impacted tenants from displacement by advocating for relocation assistance across the metro region.
 and the state. Additionally, because Portland is unaffordable to so many of us, the only way a lot of tenants of color can continue living in the city is living in regulated units, and I respectfully request that regulated units also be covered in the ordinance, at least for the time being. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. And I'm also her interpreter.
 Buenas tardes. Mi nombre es Hilda Hernandez. Yo soy una líder de Titan Minor. Primeramente, doy las gracias por dejarme escuchar. Good afternoon. My name is Hilda Hernandez. I'm thankful for the opportunity to be heard and be here today. I am a tenant leader in Titan Manor, the Titan Manor Tenants Alliance. Fuimos desalojados y gracias a CAT hemos trabajado a los dos años.
 We were no cause evicted and we've been working with CAT for the last couple years. Hace dos años recibimos la noticia sin causa en la cual nos tenía preocupados porque éramos una comunidad de 20 años ahí. No sabíamos qué hacer. Conocimos a CAT, cual nos ayudó a detener el desalojamiento por un año. Pero al siguiente año fue dada la noticia sin causa y tuvimos que pelear duro para que nos dieran la reubicación.
 We thank CAD for helping us in this long process of having to relocate. If it hadn't been for them, it wouldn't have been possible. With the help of the law, we are all already relocated successfully. It would be good if the funds continued for future help, because for many of us, our salary is very low and it is impossible to pay a forced relocation.
 Two years ago, we all received no-cause notices in Titan Manor, which caused us stress. We were a community living together for 20 years there. We did not know what to do. We found Kat, who helped us stop the eviction. But then the following year, the owners gave us no-cause notices again, and we had to fight hard for them.
 We had to fight hard for them to give us the relocation funds under the new law. We thank CAT for helping us in this process of having to uproot and find new homes. If it had not been for the relocation funds, it would not have been possible. With the help of the law, we are all able to successfully relocate into new homes. It would be good if the funds continued for future help because so many of us are low income and it is impossible to find money to pay for a forced relocation. Okay.
 CAT is an organization that helps a lot, but I also want to know how CAT could reach more people in my community who need information about these resources. It is impossible for a low-income tenant to pay for a forced relocation.
 En mi comunidad y en todas partes de Portland hay gente que carecen de esta información sobre la ley que ayuda con los fondos de la reubicación, como en el caso mío. Yo necesito saber que los fondos van a continuar porque puede pasar otra vez en mi familia y otras familias más necesitadas. Y vamos a seguir luchando por el derecho de mis hijos y de una vivienda justa.
 In my community and in all parts of Portland, there are people who need information about relocation assistance in cases like mine. I need to know that funds will be there in the future because this can happen again to my family and to other families. I'm here today and will continue fighting for the rights of my children and for fair housing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Edith Casterline, Joanne Hardesty, and Margo Black.
 And they will be followed by Alan Kessler, Carol Hanna, and Mark Mizraya. Good afternoon. Hello, I'm Edith Kasterlein. I'm a landlord with currently four rental units, including an ADU. I support the mandatory relocation assistance ordinance and hope that it becomes permanent. It is within reason for landlords and adds to needed stability for renters. I appreciate the creativity, time, and work that went into the ordinance, which is a good start to needed change. Thank you.
 The fewer the number of loopholes, the easier it will be for both landlords and tenants to know what the law is. As someone with an ADU on the lot where I live, I think it should apply to such ADUs. Our duplex is next door, so it's close to being owner occupied. It should also be subject to the ordinance. I strongly support the ordinance.
 The ordinance helps us all be more aware of the impact of displacement on renters, as people, as community members, and as our kids, classmates, and friends. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council members. For the record, I am Joanne Hottesty, and it is a pleasure to be here this afternoon at this late hour.
 First, I want to thank you for the opportunity to testify today. But more importantly, I want to thank you for changing your mind. It is really hard in an elected position to change your mind publicly. And I know you've taken a lot of heat for that. But I want to personally thank you because it's never too late to do the right thing, especially if it's for the right reason. Thank you.
 Your actions today show that when you get better information, you make better decisions. You may remember this Sunday had an Oregonian article that talked about children.
 that are going to three to four different schools per school year because of their need to actually move because their families can't afford the rent increases that they are encountering. And so clearly the issue isn't just impacting individuals, it is impacting communities and community stability as well. The efforts you are taking today will help.
 But as always, the devil's in the detail. It was very interesting listening to the dialogue and deliberation about what should be exempted and what shouldn't be. I personally want to make sure that we don't treat poor people differently than we treat people who make a living wage. And so when we talk about exempting people because they're in public housing as if somehow it's going to be easier for them to relocate, I would ask you to reconsider that.
 You may know that over 50% of families today are renters in Portland, and most of us, and I include myself in that group, are feeling very uncomfortable because we know that is it the next rent increase or is it the one after that that's going to make us have to make a choice about whether or not we now have to relocate again. Man, that was a quick two minutes.
 In closing, I just want to say that the disruption to families pushed out because their income hasn't risen as fast as their rent impacts the entire community from neighborhood markets to schools to faith institutions. Communities cannot be stable when people are not stable in their housing. So thank you. I look forward to continuing to work with you and you have my detail
 statement in front of you. Thank you. I want to comment on something you just said about changing your mind. I'm going to give you an analogy. Okay. So somebody goes to medical school. We had a doctor here earlier. Yes. And they go because they want to make people better. Yes. So they get a patient, and the patient comes in, and they do some tests, and they come up with a diagnosis, and then they prescribe a treatment. Yes. Okay.
 Over a period of days, weeks, or longer, they get more information. They read journals. They hear about research. They talk to their colleagues. They talk to other people in their profession who might have some opinions. They might talk to other patients that have been on alternative treatments. And they come back to the patient saying,
 And they say, you know what, I've just learned a few things or nuances or new insights or research or have had the opportunity to consider. I'm going to change either your diagnosis or change the prescription. Yes. Why don't we call that person a flip-flopper?
 Mayor Wheeler. We call that person a good doctor. Yes, we do. And we do this in every profession that I can think of but one. Yes. And so I want to make a clear differentiation here between changing your mind and changing values. Yes. And I want to be very clear that throughout this process, my values have remained rock solid. Yes.
 But that does not mean I forego the opportunity to listen to people, to gather information, to talk to people who are experts, talk to people who have firsthand experience, talk to my colleagues or anyone else. And so I hope that when you are out there in the community and you hear elected officials who are maintaining consistency of value being berated –
 because they have changed tactics or approach based on information or even experience gathered, that you will defend that kind of thinking. Because frankly, this idea that in the public sphere there is no room for movement is part of the problem we're experiencing in Washington. People get locked down into a certain position and then they say, wow, I'm locked down.
 And even as science changes or information changes or experience changes, people have already come out on the record and they will not change their mind. And as you look at the national debate around global climate change and realize why the United States is an outlier, it's in part because of the way we are socialized that to change one's perspective based on information, science, or experience changes.
 is somehow a bad thing when it is just the opposite. Think of the doctor. Thank you for that. Sorry. Thank you. Could I make a brief response? I think I hit a nerve, but I do want to make a brief response to that. You most certainly did. What I want to say is that's what I want from elected leadership.
 I want elected leadership that isn't so committed to their own worldview that they're unwilling to hear from other people who have had different lived experiences. And so I hope you in no way heard my words as criticism. Not at all. I heard just the opposite. You got me thinking. What we should hold people up to is consistency in values. Yes. When somebody changes their core values, that's really problematic. But when somebody...
 takes information into account or research or experience. It's just my belief that that is a fundamentally different thing. And we sometimes convolute those two things to the detriment of our community. I don't think we do, Mr. Mayor. I think people who want to create conflict do. I will leave you with a quote from one of my favorite poets, Maya Angelou. She says, when you know better, you do better. Thank you.
 Thank you. Well said. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. You know how it goes once you put the hat on, you can't take it off.
 My name is Margo Black. I'm an organizer with Portland Tenants United, a registered lobby group with the City of Portland, also a former member of the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee and a member of the Rental Services Commission. And I just want to point out that I am still a member of the Rental Services Commission and did not quit when you initially said that you would not be lifting the exemption.
 Thank you so much to City Council and all the renters here for this opportunity today. Thank you very, very much, Mayor, for your change of heart and for some explanation about where that comes from in terms of values versus information.
 I know this has been a controversial policy and that you all are under intense pressure and scrutiny regarding every component of it. I know that you have heard from and will continue to hear from probably tonight small and landlords, small and big, about why this policy is a bad idea.
 especially about why, as a loving small mom-and-pop landlord trying to do the right thing by providing housing, should these people be punished by paying relocation fees. But we need to remember something very important. This policy is not about punishing landlords.
 It's not about good or bad landlords or big or small landlords, mom and pop or corporate landlords or local or out-of-state landlords. It's not about landlords at all. It's about tenants. It's about housing security, which everyone deserves. It's about not living and renting in fear. Believe it or not, I'm not actually against landlords. I have lots of good friends and even family who are landlords, and I don't agree that they're all evil or greedy or filthy rich.
 Because none of this is about greed or money. It's about power. It's about the fact that when it comes to our home, the place that we raise our babies, host our friends, and nurse our loved ones, landlords have all of it. They make all the rules and they have all sorts of tools to enforce them. We have no negotiating power and no tools besides a courtroom when our rights are violated.
 Even the nicest, best, most loving, and ethical, and humble mom and pop landlords still have all the power to upend someone's life with rent increases or hundreds of dollars a month or forcing them from their home for no reason at all.
 And even if they don't use that power, they have it. And we shouldn't be reliant on their goodwill for our sense of security. Thank you so much for your change of heart on this policy. I support the amendments that have been suggested by other advocates on the housing committee. And I've sent you an email suggesting justification for those and others. Thank you. Appreciate it all. Can you please tell me why the hats? Why not? There's a picture.
 of Commissioner Daley's policy director, Jamie Duhamel and I at a party for Ted Wheeler two years ago when he was a candidate right after releasing the Tenants Bill of Rights where I'm wearing this hat. After his change of heart, the landlord lobby circulated that picture and put out a full color mailer which they sent out to all of their constituents telling them about Ted's flip-flop and our radical policies and so I just thought this was
 Appropriate. Thank you. Yes. The next three are Alan Kessler, Carol Hanna, and Mark Mizrahi, and they'll be followed by Mariah Sworsky, Glenn Farrell, and William Archer. Good afternoon. Hello. Why don't you go ahead and start? Very well. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Carol Hanna.
 I speak today on behalf of my daughter, Frances Hanna, who cannot attend this proceeding because she is completing an internship in Shanghai, China. Two days ago, on February 26, Frances received email notification of a no-cause eviction from a residence that she had only moved into three weeks before she departed for her internship in China. Frances will not return to Portland until the end of March.
 This is Frances's second no-cause eviction in 14 months. Both her prior landlord and her current landlord own single units. Frances is a senior at Portland State University. She's majoring in international relations and Mandarin. Throughout most of her college career, Frances has worked full time and paid her own living expenses while carrying a full academic load. Her father and I are proud of her independence and responsibility.
 Now Frances has to face the expense and instability of relocating yet again upon her return from China. Frances supports, as do we, her parents, the closing of the single rental unit exemption. However, as I understand the ordinance being considered by the council today, the removal of the single unit exemption will not be retroactive, and Frances again will be displaced without relocation assistance.
 In fact, it appears that her current landlord's no-cause eviction, issued only two days ago, was inspired by the consideration of this ordinance today. It is fundamentally unfair that Frances' landlord and other landlords can dodge providing mandated relocation expenses because the ordinance being considered is not retroactive."
 On behalf of Francis and other similarly situated tenants, I respectfully request that paragraph E1 and 2 of Exhibit A to 30.01.085, the Portland renter additional provisions, not be stricken.
 Thank you for your consideration of my daughter's position. Thank you. And I just want to put out another reminder, if there are folks with disability or small children who'd like to be bumped to the front of the list, please talk to Carla over here in the main council chamber, and we'll orchestrate that. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Just as a note, I believe that the Oregon Constitution says we're not allowed to do retroactive laws. I'm sorry? I think the Oregon Constitution says that we're not allowed to do retroactive laws. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for this opportunity. My name is Leah Isaac. I represent Portland Tenants United as an organizer. And I really think it was an amazing thing that you said just a bit ago, that housing is a human right, that it is a landmark and remarkable proclamation, because it is 180 degrees at odds with housing viewed as an investment program.
 or something to exploit people with, to dichotomize our society as landlords, investors, versus a lower class of people that are disempowered, disenfranchised, and dissed in every way. I am opposed to dichotomies. I am opposed because it causes isms, which cause bigotries.
 I am a transgender person. I have experienced evictions and hate crimes because of who I am in regards to housing and evictions.
 The policies for LGBT people and trans people are not applied. We do not have lived equality. We are not experiencing fairness and equality in housing. We are being evicted for who we are. We are subjected to hate crimes against us. I was recently, about three weeks ago, beaten and suffered a hate crime, a transphobic hate crime. I was called many things, among them...
 big fat faggot and the F-bomb was used a lot and you're a man and it was awful. Three women did help me out and I was appreciative of this. I am homeless right now because of not getting relocation assistance. I am homeless now because of bigotry and there are landlords out there that
 are not using the law. I think that we need to have application of the laws utilized because we are not experiencing lived equality as tenants...
 as any people. We are human beings, and I'm glad that you made that proclamation because it is absolutely incredibly remarkable because that's the way it is. We're people. Thank you. I appreciate it very much. It's a pleasure to hear your testimony. Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry. You already did testify. Thank you. Next three, please. We're going to go with Arlie Lopez, Mariah Schwartzke. Let's go with Glenn Farrell, William Archer.
 And Carla, just a process check. Carla, how many more do we have? Carla, during this testimony, could you count how many we have left, just so I can get a time check? Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. You're going to have to excuse me. I'm a little bit emotional and angry. My name is Arale Lopez, and I am a volunteer with Portland Tenant United. I'd like to thank Mayor Wheeler.
 and the commissioners for extending relocation assistance protections. These protections have brought struggling tenants relief by reducing severe rent increases and no-cost evictions. RELO is a good beginning, but our rental housing crisis and our unequal tenant-landlord relationship demands additional protections. I am...
 I'm going to talk about my experiences with maintenance and the safety of the homes that some of these landlords fail to do. I have called Bureau of Development Services many times. And to this day, third was the last day that they were at my house. And my stove does not work still.
 constant fear right now that my house is going to burn because I'm going to forget something in the back burner since I moved into the second apartment. It is a 51-unit apartment, and I was moved from another apartment where also Bureau of Development Services did nothing to help me. I've called the inspectors when they have been there because they're
 You know, I had issues that they were not checked. I have called their supervisors who will say they're going to call me back and will not call back. And with this last issue of my stove, the supervisor promised he will call me back. He has not called me back. Things like this are the ones that you leaders have to look at, that tenants have to deal with.
 I shouldn't have to be in fear of living in an apartment that I think is going to burn because of a stove. So let me help you out here. Who from my team? Cupid over there in the corner. Can we make sure? Okay, great. There's a couple of people who want to help you out over here.
 We'll get your contact information and your address. It's a very dangerous situation, and I thank you for coming here and sharing it with us because it's a good example. But it's a very dangerous situation, and I want to make sure that we get your stove fixed. Not only that, but there shouldn't be the dates of – there should be priorities to things that should be, you know, by the Bureau of Development Services that they should be issued. I was told –
 four to six weeks for them to come and check, you know, the issue about my stove. That is not something that should be like that. There's an electrical problem with my stove. There's not only that issue, but many more issues, mold issues, that I think the city needs to really address because there is no laws that deal with mold. They just paint over it, you know, scratch it off a little bit. You have to do it again. It comes back in a couple months.
 That is not right. We shouldn't have to live like that. No disagreement. So we'll get you set up. Commissioner Udaly, did you have something you wanted to say? I just wanted to ask you to talk to my staff over there because the Bureau of Development Services is in my portfolio and we are in charge of inspecting rental units, and it's certainly something that we take very seriously. So if you could talk to her, that would be great because –
 We need to move on to the next question. I've had four things, you know. I've had four issues with this, and my door does not work also, and I'm disabled, and I cannot get into my house because of this. So there's a lot of issues. It sounds like you have lots of issues. We're going to resolve them. So talk to Jamie over there, and we'll get it done. I'd just like to finish a little bit more. Portland provides very few resources to tenants and lacks a functional rental housing inspection. Okay.
 a functional inspection system, often the only resource is to sue the landlords or go to court. Many tenants suffer in silence because the lack of resources to sue or the fear of retaliation from the location assistance to be effective in creating housing stability. It needs to be paired with their office of landlord
 and tenant affairs that educates tenants and to really assist tenants. Thank you, and I always hate to look like a jerk when I do this, but we've got lots of people lined up here to testify, and it's getting late. So Jamie will help you out. Can you guys also just make sure that you're hearing it from me directly? We'll work with you. We'll work with you. We promise. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is William Archer. I'm the owner of a single-family home in southeast Portland, Virginia,
 as well as two others that I've turned into what I call Archer's Recovery Homes. We help 12-step members relocate and get into a communal living arrangement in which they don't have to worry about broken stoves, bad roofs.
 property taxes and these kinds of things. So I'm indirectly helping about 15 people in the city, including the home that I live in. These are one-bedroom, these are single-room occupancies, and from my understanding, if you do change the...
 If you do change the ordinance to exempt single family or single owners, single unit exemptions, it will affect my business in the property in which I reside and
 the other properties. And I would encourage you guys to have more testimony ahead of time. It's a little alarming to me that all of a sudden there's a lot of confusion around some of the procedures and exemptions that are proposed today in today's ordinances that weren't really discussed. And I would have liked to have a little more
 open dialogue regarding these issues ahead of time. So we provide safe, stable, and affordable housing for people that are evicted. And I don't worry about that when I'm dealing with these people that are in recovery. For me to have to worry about a relocation fee when there is a problem with recovery, it's an issue for all of us, and it does affect my business greatly.
 So I appreciate you thinking about this kind of stuff, but I would like a little more open dialogue before these changes are made. It would make me feel a lot better as a small business owner. Very good. And I know that we're looking to have an information process related to the Rental Service Commission, which has been recently stood up to continue to discuss all of these things on an ongoing basis.
 and if you would like to be engaged in that process and know when those meetings are or at least know what's discussed at those meetings, we'd be happy to plug you into that directly. And if you could just maybe Cupid, I could assign you that responsibility. If you could just talk to Mr. Alexander over there. Okay. Great. Thank you for coming in. We appreciate it. Good afternoon.
 My name is Maria Swarsky. I've been providing affordable housing in the local area for 23 years. I'm urging you not to extend the emergency ordinance. It's hurting the people that it's trying to protect. I am no longer taking chances on marginally qualified applicants, whereas before I knew that about a third of those people I took a chance on, I would be giving them a no cause, and now I can't do that. I have to tighten up my criteria here.
 As my costs go up, I have to raise the rents. I've already been, since this ordinance passed, raising rents that I wouldn't normally raise. For three years in the past, I wouldn't even raise rents for three years, and now I'm afraid that I won't have my legal defense built up, and I won't be able to pay someone's relocation fees if the other tenants on the property or the neighbors complain like I have been in the past.
 As a mom and pop, it used to be that I could talk to my tenants. They'd come to me, they'd have a problem, we'd work it out. Now I'm feeling like the rent is being forced up to maximum, and I'm not going to have to give breaks because I have to worry about myself now, and I can't be just giving breaks to people. This has created an adversarial relationship, not symbiotic.
 And as far as the single unit exemption, I'm a realtor. That's my full-time day job. And I have personally firsthand helped landlords sell homes that were converted to owner-occupied homes, and that is the trend. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your coming in. Thanks, both of you. Next three, please. And after them, I show 28 more people on the list. 28, very good. Next is Glenn Farrell, Pamela Ordway, and Estelle Golden.
 So, folks, again, I don't like to be the microphone guy, so two minutes, please stop so I don't have to ask. All right? Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. Can we start now? Yes, sir. Okay. So I'm a small landlord. I've been a landlord for 30 years. What's your name, please? Oh, my name is Glenn Farrell. I'm sorry. Okay.
 You know, I would like to say that it sounds like it's going to pass before all of our testimony was taken, so it was kind of discouraging, but I still want to make a statement. I've used no-cause terminations when I had no choice. It's not a choice that I would like to make, but sometimes people make trouble that you can't prove. Other tenants don't want to come down for a cause.
 They don't want to be witnesses. I think it's going to really hamstring small landlords. Now, you've talked about some people. I've heard larger units. We don't have the resources that a large unit has. I just think it's just going to make it much more difficult for me to be a good landlord and to be a landlord that's tried to keep my costs down. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Estelle Golden.
 Thank you, Commissioner, for the opportunity to speak today. Air, water, food, shelter, these are the most essential needs of life. As an owner of a small duplex in southeast Portland, I provide shelter. I take this responsibility very seriously. I aim to provide clean, comfortable, safe, and affordable housing to my tenants. In this capacity, I also take on significant financial risk. In return, I seek a modest profit.
 I'm always mindful of my tenants' finances when renewing leases and strive to keep increases to 2%. I want to testify today about my serious objection to the portion of the ordinance compelling landlords to continually renew or continue tenancies. While most tenants pay the rent on time and follow the rules, there is a small group of type of tenants that I call stinkers.
 Stinkers may always pay late or damage the unit or cause problems for their other tenants or neighbors. I want to keep good tenants. They are my customers. But occasionally, I get a stinker, and sometimes this is time for them to move on. This is fair to me and to my other tenants. I'm not going to go too much further, but I'll say that...
 In a situation where you have someone who's damned in the unit or not paying or generally is disruptive to their neighbors, to have to pay them to relocate just seems like a terrible injustice and very unfair. There was a woman earlier who testified about having more nuance on the law regarding a landlord who has very small increases working on minimal increases.
 you know, income and trying to navigate all of this. And I would encourage you to consider more nuance in the relocation process that would accommodate this. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. And I don't know if the housing staff wants to react to that at all. Should we put it at the end? Put it at the end. Great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 My name is Pam Ordway, and thank you for the opportunity to speak today. I am a partner with both my husband and also separately with other family members operating 17 rental units in the metro area, mostly houses and a few small plexus. I've owned rentals in the metro area since 1998, and like most rental owners, we started by converting our first home into a rental property.
 I thought about talking about one of our horror stories where a tenant moved in and seemed fine at first, but later, unbeknownst to us, moved in her extended family and ended up with other tenants complaining about bicycles suddenly disappearing, yelling and screaming all night long, cannabis accessories and garbage showing up on the front lawn, smoking in the laundry room, and finally a fire that destroyed the fence between our property and our neighbors. All these occurrences had no witnesses."
 and even the report from the fire department couldn't say for sure who caused the fire, so we didn't feel confident enough to evict the tenant with cause. This particular property is not in the city of Portland, so we were able to use a no-cause eviction and remove the tenant. It was only after the fact that one of the other tenants, who has been there seven years, told us that she was getting desperate and had been looking for some place to move because it was becoming unbearable.
 If it would have been in Portland, I would have had to ask myself, is it worth $4,200? It was a two-bedroom apartment. Is it worth $4,200 to me to evict with no cause? Because it would have fallen on my plate to pay that. I want to tell you that little story. And then I also thought, well, I would just speak frankly. Operating rental properties involves plenty of risk from factors we can't control.
 Why would I continue to operate in an area where there are unnecessary risks being piled on by local government? And I'm beginning to think that I don't. There are plenty of other areas I can operate rental properties without local government adding unnecessary and onerous restrictions. I'm just going to mention...
 In the last two years, we've gotten rid of three single-family houses inside the city of Portland. We're reinvesting in other areas or transferring into luxury properties that don't have that. Thank you. So I want to give you a provisional answer, and later on we'll have the Housing Bureau. But I believe every single circumstance you mentioned –
 Those are for cause explicitly. So you do not have to pay relocation for any of the issues that you mentioned, but all at the housing. They're giving you a thumbs up. It's proving them in court that is the problem. That is the problem. If you don't have people to support it. No one wants to show up and be a witness, even if you offer to give them a discount for rent or something. Well, nonetheless, that has nothing to do with this ordinance.
 I'm not saying that's not a problem. But that's the benefit of the no-cause termination. It's not a no-cause eviction. I was speaking about having to continue them as tenants after the lease is completed. That's what I was really speaking to. Okay, fair enough. Not a no-cause eviction. But I want to be very clear. There's nothing about this ordinance that changes –
 whether or not those individuals would get, they would not get re-law for the things that you described, committing crimes, committing acts of vandalism. That's my point. I'm compelled to keep them on. Well, if nobody will corroborate the story, that's correct. That's my point. Well. Tenants don't want to take time off from work to go to court. Well, there's a lot of reasons, but it also might be because it's not true.
 Not if they're telling you. Next three, please. Okay. Thank you. Sure. I mean, there's a documentation process you could go through, and we've suggested that in previous conversations here. If you want to go through the apartment with the tenant and you photograph or document the condition of the apartment, that's like one obvious solution that one could be engaged in.
 Just a suggestion. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next three. Steve Demarest, Lori Melson, and did Lucy Berger switch with Steve Walker? Are either of them here? I'm with Steve. Okay. So you switched with Steve? We're not going to. Yeah. Okay. So we'll go with Lucy then. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Just let me get in here. Thank you. Oh, I just lost it.
 Mayor Wheeler, City Commissioners, my name is Stephen Demarest. I am a longtime Portland resident. I am testifying as president of SEIU Local 503, a union that represents over 60,000 Oregon workers and their families.
 I am a chair. I am the chair of SEIU's State Council, which in addition to Local 503 includes SEIU Local 49, which represents over 13,000 other workers and their families in Oregon and southwest Washington. SEIU Local 49 may be registered as a lobbyist with the city. The majority of the workers we represent are low-wage workers. They are disproportionately people of color. Many of them live in Portland.
 Many of them rent the residences in which they house their families, which includes school children. With the month-to-month cost of living, including the cost of housing in this area, these workers and their families do not have the ability to create and maintain the resources to self-finance two months of rent, deposits, and the other costs associated with an involuntary move.
 The members of my union adopted as official union policy an acknowledgment that there is a housing crisis in Oregon, that this is clearly a working family issue, which especially presents a hardship to low-income workers, and that this crisis needs immediate and meaningful solutions, including better protection of tenants' rights and welfare. The fact that there's a longstanding housing crisis in Portland means that the current system of providing housing to our city's population is inadequate.
 Stable housing is a human right, thank you, Mayor, and a condition of a healthy community. The welfare of all our residents is the primary responsibility of you and our government. The welfare of our children has a special urgency. The failure to ensure human rights and the general welfare requires changes be made to the current system. Better protection of tenants' rights and welfare is one of those required changes.
 I'll skip to the end. You could end right there. That would be really helpful. Okay. Thank you. All right, Commissioner. You made good points. Thank you. That was great. Hi. Hi. My name is Lori Nelson. It's N instead of M. Thank you for this opportunity to not only voice my opinions, concerns, vision, whatever, it helps.
 It's made me listen, too. I'm glad I'm one of the later ones so I can listen, learn, and have a more open mind. I spent about 24 hours dissecting this issue as a small mom-and-pop landlord. I'm going to read what I had composed and then let everybody boo behind me.
 My husband and I own an 11-unit apartment complex in an older, well-established neighborhood in Portland. My father-in-law's construction company built, owned, and managed over 100 multifamily complexes built from the ground up, exclusively in this city since the 1960s. He was a strong advocate of maintaining affordable quality and personal living properties for decades.
 Upon acquiring one of his units in 2008, my husband and I strive to continue with his philosophies. We currently have a long-term tenant of 32 years and another couple that have been there 19. We also have had, in the last four years, had three separate couples within their 18 to 24-month tenancy purchase their first homes. So by sticking with all the rules.
 We did, although, have a situation where a no-cause eviction notice was necessary, a necessary situation. They ended up opting to move, but to have to relocate that person would have really devastated us. So I'm just, I'm curious to see if there's any way to...
 By getting all this information as to the larger structures, you know, have a certain criteria with, you know, or the amount of units or something. I'm hearing kind of that. And my other bullet point with two seconds. I love the idea of the lady with if you have a lease with a certain percentage of race. You know, I would be willing to go from month to month to a lease with something like that considered. Thank you. That's helpful. Great. Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Good afternoon. Hi.
 Hi, my name is Lucy. I just want to say thank you. We've come a long way in a year, and I really appreciate all the hard work and efforts that you put forward and the change that is coming from this. I really am happy that we are going in such a good direction. I mostly want to testify to the landlords in the room who are saying,
 A no-cause eviction is necessary. A no-cause eviction is never necessary. A roof over your head is necessary. Imagine you have a mortgage. You've had it for four months. You've had it for 10 years. You've had it for 20 years. And all of a sudden, the bank comes to you and says, actually, sorry, we're going to take the house.
 No reason, no nothing, no explanation. That is what it's like to be no cause evict. That's what it's like to be ripped from your home and your community. This is not a punishment. This is to keep people housed. It's to build our community and to build stability. And I thank you for making these efforts to protect our community. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. We appreciate it very much. Next three are Robert Aquino.
 And is Don Belcastro here? He's gone. Okay, so it'll be Robert Aquino, Sam Waithe, and Rebecca Webster. Why don't you go ahead and start, please? London Claver, Candace Aston. Sorry. Sorry. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak in front of all you esteemed people. My name's Robert Aquino. I was an eight-year tenant in a Southwest condo,
 and a victim of no-cause eviction of a certain property management company. But back then, there were no reload options or anything like that. Therefore, an eviction on my rental history made it difficult for me to find suitable housing. So we'll take it to the next level of houselessness.
 go from there not having an SSI. I'm 60 years old waiting to retire, basically living on my own resources for the last eight, nine, ten years, which brings us up to the current time. I'm here to support the Portland Tenants United and RELO. I'm also a member of the Village of Hope. Evictions can lead to houselessness.
 No-cause evictions are similar to homeless sweeps. Evictions and sweeps cause undue stress or even trauma, and in extreme cases, death. There's been several deaths this winter from just people dying from exposure. Evictions and sweeps keep people off balance, disrupting even basic routines like hygiene and diet, which causes more stress.
 add on lack of security, both physical and personal, constantly relocating, trying to keep appointments and the stress compounds accordingly. So the bottom line is, after all, don't we all just want to have a warm, relaxing, secure place to lay our heads? Thank you. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon.
 Hello. So, Candice Aston had to leave. She's a single mom, so I will read her testimony. My name is Candice. I'm a lawyer and small business owner here in Portland. I'm also a single mother to two daughters, and I have $100,000 in student loans. So you can imagine that I very much live check to check, especially as rents and other costs continue to rise in our city. When I was served with an unexpected 90-day notice to vacate,
 back in the fall. I was filled with fear. I was devastated to leave what I thought would be a long-term home. And I felt like a total failure telling my kids we're moving again. This was the fourth time in four years that I had been forced to move by no choices of my own.
 Each year for the last four years, I've tried to save and budget my way to where I can begin to get ahead. And each year, I've had to spend and borrow and round up the support of my friends to make these moves. Application fees, $90 a pop, because I now have to pay a fee for my daughter who just turned 18 and can't afford to rent a place in the city.
 First month's rent, last month's rent, deposit, pet deposit, other fees, not to mention moving costs. My total moving fees are around $5,000. My friend told me I might qualify for the new relocation assistance, and so I cautiously looked up what the law provided for. Moving from a three bedroom, I would qualify for $4,500 in relocation assistance.
 This would change everything for my daughters and me. And then I read the exemption. I was the only renter my landlord had left. He had sold his other properties the past summer, making a nice chunk of change and exempting him from having to pay relocation assistance. I want to thank the mayor and city council for its consideration in lifting the ban. However, the unit...
 I rented was a duplex unit, and so if the city decides to make an exemption for duplexes, people like my children and me will still be out of luck. I believe that this exemption will make these units unattractive for renters. I certainly will do everything I can to avoid them in the future.
 You will have the most desperate renters in these units who will be hit the hardest without relocation assistance. Any exemptions are a bad idea. The landlord who benefits from the monthly rent and increase in equity and investment is in the best position to take the loss when they choose to evict a tenant. You've made your point well. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. Hi.
 I'm testifying on behalf of London Clower. She's a 21-year-old student at PSU, and she wants to tell the council about when she was no-cost evicted, when she was 13 years old. I feel her testimony is very important, considering the exemptions on the table, and I hope you tell Saltzman and Fish. Okay. Okay.
 Me and my little brothers who were one and four at the time moved from Vancouver, Canada for my stepdad's new job. We drove down five times to look at houses to rent because my mom wanted to make sure we found a good place and that we could stay in, stay there a long time until I was done with high school
 and my brothers could start kindergarten. We found an amazing house that the owner was moving out of to accept a new job in New York. We loved the place, the neighborhood, and the location was perfect. My mom made sure that this was a long-term rental, a place that we could live until we could afford to buy a home in the neighborhood, our dream. The owner told us that she was never coming back and that she'd probably sell us the house in a couple years and that we could sign a two-year lease immediately
 if that would make us feel better. My mom said yes, but then the property management said no so that they could raise the rent after one year. But we trusted the owner and moved in. We were a happy family with a cat, a dog, and after years of school and hard work, my formerly teen single mom felt like she'd made it.
 I took the bus to school from the corner, made a ton of great friends in the neighborhood, but put in a garden in the spring, got a trampoline and a really cool plastic pool from Costco, which made me very cool.
 and planned our first ever family vacation. We decided to host an exchange student. We finally felt like a normal, happy family. Then near the end of our lease, we got a 30 day notice to move. Life had changed and the owner and her daughter had moved back in. I was devastated, I cried. I felt like I had done something wrong. Why wasn't this happening to any of my friends or neighbors? My mom fell into a depression. My parents fought. We canceled our vacation. We couldn't afford it because of the move. It was so hard on us.
 My mom still rents saying that the bad timing of that financial hit made it so they would never be able to buy a house. Thank you. No one in my family has spare houses for us to move into.
 So I don't see why people who are privileged enough to own homes should be able to inflict so much harm on people who don't. Thank you for passing this ordinance, but I wish it covered all tenants. Got it. Thanks. Thanks, both of you. Next three, please. Grant Sawyer, Seth Fishlin, and Kelly Nall Francois, Angela Baldwin, Corinthia Bethune. Very good. Would you mind starting for us, please? Sure.
 Hi, my name is Seth Fishland. Thanks for the opportunity to speak. Thank you. I'm actually new to Portland. I moved here from the San Francisco Bay Area, where I went through three evictions in five years and moved many, many friends who were evicted from their homes. So I've seen the impacts of this situation in a different place. And so I'm really interested in what's happening here in Portland.
 and I looked at the proposed exemptions for this legislation, and the first thing that comes to mind for me is all the creative ways that landlords will find to get around these exemptions based on what I've seen in the Bay Area. In the Bay Area, there is a rent board that exists that does cover, especially owner move-in. The owner move-in exemption is really interesting to me because I've seen that be abused over and over again in the Bay Area recently,
 and in the existing regulations that you have, I see it's really just one line. If I'm looking at that line and I'm a Portland landlord who wants to save a few thousand dollars, it seems like that's a high priority for many of the landlords who have spoken tonight.
 I think it would be very easy. I would just say, you know, I'm going to move my uncle in or my cousin, and then the tenants have to leave, and I don't have to pay them relo. And then if I think that anybody's actually paying attention, then I would actually maybe move that person in for a month, and then they can leave. Because there's no regulation that says how long they have to be there.
 There's no enforcement mechanism in San Francisco. Many times landlords would get people out on the basis of an owner move-in, and then they would never actually move a relative into the apartment because there was no enforcement mechanism. There was nobody watching.
 So I know people who have actually kept tabs on an apartment that they had to leave, and then they were able to prove down the line that it just got re-rented. So that happens a lot. So I just want to say that for something to keep an eye on in the future in terms of how to write this regulation so it actually has teeth. And I'm just going to leave it at that. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hello. Hello.
 Commissioner, Mayor, my name is Carinthia Bethune. I'm an African-American female, and I was born and raised in Portland, Oregon. I'm here today to tell you about my experience with Portland Tenants United of substantial changes in my rental agreement. PTU gave me the information and tools I needed to try to utilize the relocation option during the recent rent and lease changes at my current residence.
 The situation at my current residence involved receiving a notice from the leasing office stating that I needed to sign a form as soon as possible to change my rental contact to a 3, 6, or 12-month lease. Security property management did not include information about reloads with these forms.
 Previously, when it was time to renew my rental agreement, I would always opt for month-to-month because I wanted to be able to give a 30-day notice in case I qualify for any other properties that are being offered by various social service agencies throughout the Portland area, specifically the North Northeast relocation.
 I have applied for programs that allow native black Portlanders to relocate back to North Portland based on a point system. I need to stay month to month because if I was tied to a lease, I would not be able to pay the lease break fee of $1,500. It is imperative that I keep the 30-day notice option in case I receive notification that one or any of these properties that I have applied for has an opening.
 Security Properties Residential, a company that manages the apartment complex where I live, decided not to change the lease rental agreements and that tenants can stay on a month-to-month without having to pay an extra $100 fee, which would raise my rent over 10% in a year, which is illegal. Okay.
 SPR stated that it would cost them too much to pay all of the tenants who are requesting RELO. SPR offers mixed housing that has openings for people who are over 55, disabled, refugee and low income tenants. Not everyone was affected by the lease changes and I don't have the statistics. All I can say is that it must have been a substantial amount for SPI to decide not to change the monthly contract agreement. Thank you.
 Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Sammy Black, but I'm reading testimony of Kelly Francoise, who had to leave. Okay, so from now on, I'm Kelly. I'm a small landlord. I live in one side of a duplex and rent out the other side. I started becoming interested in tenants' rights and specifically relocation money when I was in the process of buying our duplex. The duplex tenants were no cause evicted before the duplex went on the market, and that fact was listed in the sales contract.
 Shortly after we entered into the contract, the temporary relocation ordinance was enacted and it was retroactive. The sellers of the duplex tried to get us, as the buyers, to rewrite the contract to where one side of the duplex tenants would get screwed out of the relocation money. Of course, I did not agree to this underhanded behavior. Both sides of the duplex got the reload money and one was able to purchase a condo and the other purchased a house.
 I saw firsthand how relocation works to maintain the financial stability of our tenant residents. I agree with removing the small landlord exemption from the relocation. All tenants deserve to be protected from the costs of being forced to move or being priced out from large rent increases. It is very easy for me as a landlord to avoid paying relo. If I can't afford it by not making my tenants move or raising the rent too much, it's a cost that I can control through my own actions.
 As I hear about other exemptions being contemplated for owner-occupied duplexes, I worry that my rental will not be able to compete with units that are protected by RELO assistance. In trying to protect me, the unintended consequence may be that this exemption actually hurts me by making my unit less desirable to tenants in the know.
 I received a letter in the mail last week stating that I was being required to fix the sidewalks in front of my house at the cost of approximately $3,600. I had to chuckle when it dawned on me that I was being forced to fix the sidewalks when I can't control how the tree roots grow. This was an out-of-the-blue expense, one that actually causes a financial hardship to my family.
 Were the City Council worrying about the financial hardship to the mom-and-pop landlords when it comes to the sidewalks in front of my house? Does this city care more about sidewalks than its tenant residents? Thank you. Good afternoon. Thanks for all three of you. Next three are Bernetta Parker, Pamela Neck, and Madri Page, Steve Walker, Kendall Borton. Let me get to the list. Thank you.
 Kendall Borton. So folks, we're not going to be taking a vote tonight, obviously. So those of you who are reading for other people, we've had a lot of people do that. Let's not do that because people can still submit their own written testimony, so we don't have to have everything read on the record tonight. And I think we're in danger of losing our quorum. So if you're here and you're on the list –
 and you want to testify, that's great, but let's have everybody else email in. And the list has been closed. If somebody raised their hand and said, can I join the list? No, the list is closed, but you may submit written testimony. Pamela Connect's testimony will be submitted separately via email. Thank you. Appreciate that. We've got, let me say it again, Kendall Borton, Steve Walker, Madry Page, Mike Burnett, Alan Carpenter, Lucy Shelby.
 Mary Beth Henry, Edith Gillis, Harrison Lee. Come on up. If I called your name, come up. Okay, we've got three here. Commissioner Fritz. Keep going. That's all right. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. I'm Alan Carpenter.
 I'm a housing provider, a property manager, and real estate services company. We've just found and been working with seven clients who are wanting to sell their seven single-family residents in the city of Portland, wanting to move their money to Vancouver, Clackamas, and Washington counties. I have colleagues that have principals that have sold their Portland properties, moving to Marion, Benton, and Lane counties.
 and getting out of the rental business in Portland altogether. So I want to say thank you for helping my business. Our sales are doing quite well this year. The housing crisis is a simple supply and demand economics. The ordinance is nothing to address the housing crisis and only makes small landlords like myself want to get out of the business. So...
 I've got another minute, but I'm all good. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Lucy Shelby. I live in my triplex in northeast Portland. And...
 I very much want to put my two cents in. I think it was Ms. Molina's request to maybe look at year-long leases and below 3% rent increases possibility for exemption. I also am in my house because I'm a senior and bought it so that I could age in place. And one of the things I'm going to want to do, whether it is family or parents,
 Actually, I hope it's not family. I hope it's tenants who would like a really nice low-income opportunity to help take care of me before I have to go to some other assisted living or something like that. Right now I get along really well walking to Trader Joe's and all that sort of stuff. But I've had a stroke, and who knows what's going to happen.
 So I'm just kind of want to put that out there as the single landlord. And the other thing that really interested me was when they were talking about exemptions for the whole building exemptions for the tax credit properties.
 I would love to have a whole unit exemption for my little triplex, which I think if I go after those little individual exemptions, I could probably get it. But boy, it would sure be easier to just sort of do it once and be done. The other thing is, I have a homeless guy living...
 sheltering himself in my garage, since my garage would be considered, in quotes, uninhabitable. But he uses my kitchen and my bathroom, and it keeps him from sleeping in people's doorways in the neighborhood. And he's been very useful in helping me do some gardening and cleaning up and things like that. So, yeah.
 Well, yes, I'm a small landlord. My heart, in a lot of ways, is with the tenants. But I had to go out and join the Rental Housing Alliance, and I do support what Juan Garcia was saying about exemptions for more than one unit there. But I was afraid I was going to get sued by, you know,
 Portland Tenants Union and all the other guys out here who I really do in a lot of ways stand with. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony very much. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Hello. I'm Edith Gillis. I've been a homeowner. I'm a tenant, and I'm preparing to be a landlord. When I was young, I learned that the American dream is that our public servants are dedicated to providing liberty, equality, and justice for all with equal treatment under the law.
 I learned that contracts are legal agreements between equal parties. They freely enter in or out of for mutual good, governed by society's laws of what's benefiting all society and the environment. The opposite is where one benefits at the expense of the other, such as slavery or in a conspiracy for extortion or theft.
 I've learned that the laws already benefit landlords and that they can charge upfront for reasonable expenses to provide safe, fair, accessible housing. And they pay their fair share of taxes. Well, I was wrong.
 I thought in return tenants should be able to pay reasonable rent and take proper care of it, only do reasonable wear and tear, and that they should also be able to have paid up front their reasonable expenses.
 No cause evictions has a reasonable expectation of cost that is far more than 3-4 months of rent and housing expenses and hook up and health care and time taken off and transportation and maybe risk of the loss of a job and health.
 That should be paid up front. And it should be for every tenant. Everyone should be treated fairly under law. Housing is a right for everyone, regardless of the landlord.
 I would provide it as a landlord. And if we make exceptions, then we're not being the American dream. We're being guilty of conspiracy for extortion, theft, and slavery. Please don't do that. Please pass this with no exemptions. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. I show four more people on the list. The next are Harrison Lee, Marcel Gizmundo, and Brad Hamer.
 And the last one is Matt Williams. So those are the last four who signed up. Were you the one who wanted to come up? Come on up. These are our last three. Good evening. Hello. I'm Brad Hamer. I'm an owner-operator. I just have some concerns about the relocation fees and paying them to the tenants before they move out. And if they choose to stay and they don't pay the money back, basically what happens? Like, uh...
 I also have a couple other questions how did this ties into the URM upcoming stuff I'm sure you guys have heard about it with the unreinforced masonry buildings and some of the updates that are going to have to be done there for seismic upgrades and then also what is a no cause eviction I'm third generation I don't know what it is it seems like 99% of the time you're trying to get somebody out there's a reason that's really all I got thank you
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Matt Williams. I grew up in poverty down in California on an 8- to 10-year waiting list for Section 8 housing vouchers. We have something similar to that currently. Now, and for the last 15 years, I've been counseling clients to transfer their assets and their investment strategies from Wall Street and other investments to be providing housing, which I think is significant. If we don't have an opportunity to...
 have that be an investment strategy, then it turns into a shortage of supply. When it no longer makes sense financially, people stop investing. That minimizes the number of units that are on the market. And so a lot of the clients that I have, especially in the single family side, are looking at either one or two individual units that they plan on using in lieu of Social Security and in lieu of having their kid not go to college because they're utilizing it as an investment strategy.
 Obviously, everyone is not going to be able to do that. But this ordinance is really flawed in that it pits the tenant against the landlord and the landlord against the tenant. And one of the challenges that we have is that these items are handled. The penalty is addressed and assessed to the landlord because they're a landlord. That's it. The benefit goes to the tenant because they're a tenant. That's it. It has nothing to do with means. I'd be very interested in hearing the housing...
 comment on this because while there's an 8-10 year waiting list on Section 8 housing vouchers, this past September as I understand, they have 3,000 people on a waiting list. They had 16,000 applicants. I pay a tenant who makes $250,000 a year,
 forty five hundred dollars that does not help people in low income it does not help tenants that need it and it goes to people because they're a tenant i think that's an improper way to handle it and if it was really the core value mister mayor then that one of the ways that you could uh... adjust this is to put yourself in a situation where you could not just say let's penalize the landlords and benefit all the tenants
 Let's put ourselves in a position where we can accept money either from landlords or from all of our core value Portland residents and apply those funds directly to those who are means-based and on a waiting list that have no home currently. Interesting. Thank you. Appreciate that. And I may ask the Housing Bureau about that question because I know we've had conversations about that and it quickly got headed off for reasons that I can't remember, but I will remember when we have them back.
 Good afternoon. Good evening. Hi, my name is Antonia Elizabeth Martinez Lawler. Thanks for giving me the chance to talk. I really appreciate it. I'm an independent contractor, female entrepreneur, and landlord of a mom and pop owner Huckabee Duplex with a 30-year mortgage.
 A little bit about me as a landlord and a little bit about my tenants. In my career so far, I've had two long-term tenants. The first couple asked to break their lease after several years to follow a job opportunity, and the next tenant asked to break their lease after several years since they had been saving up and successfully bought a home in Portland. We let them break the lease and also dismissed several other minor infractions since there was a relationship and trust.
 We also never raised rent on a renter throughout the years they stayed with us. To sum it up, they were all great tenants. With our current tenants, it's the first time I've ever felt tension and that we might need to protect ourselves. It can't be denied that the trust has been eroded. I see that there is a problem, but I also see several flaws in the ordinance.
 I feel like the fee will only help the first generation of renters. Once they are out, rent will go up, and then where will we be? Sorry, nervous. And then I also feel like the fee almost guarantees that rents will be raised. And then also, how do we know how the fees will be spent? Think about this. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it. Thanks to all three of you. One more person. Oh.
 Oh, who? Julia DeGraw. She was on the list. Yes, she was. Come on up. Thank you, all three of you. There was a lot of list jockeying. This was a really exciting experience of what it's like to have one of these really long
 So yes, for the record, my name is Julia DeGraw, and I live in the Montevilla neighborhood, and I am running for Portland City Council position two. And I don't have anything particularly new to say other than I am really thankful to see...
 the evolution of this process. I testified earlier in favor of making sure that relocation would apply to all landlords, including those who only own a single unit, and I'm glad to see that happening. And, you know, as was discussed earlier, I share a lot of the concerns that were brought up
 about tidying it up. We've got the devils in the details, of course, and I expressed some of the concerns that folks have about closing, about some of the exemptions. But at the end of the day, this is a really big step in the right direction.
 People, and it's the best tool you have in your toolbox as the city, given the limitations that we have at the state level. I fully support working to go down there to Salem to make sure that we can actually end no-cause evictions. But until then, I really encourage you to continue to stay strong on passing this relocation, making it permanent, making it apply to all landlords, and cleaning up some of those areas.
 So those details clearly still need to be worked out. But at the end of the day, I just want to thank you, and I agree completely about the conversation you had with Joanne Hardesty earlier, Mayor Wheeler. We need leaders that lead from their values and that can change their mind when they've received new information or have a new experience.
 We need to be able to do that in order to lead in a way that serves the people. So thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. All right. Thank you, everybody. Great testimony all over the board. Could we get the Housing Bureau back up? I'm sure there are some pressing questions. I've got a couple that were just raised during testimony.
 The first question, somebody asked if we could define more clearly what is a no-cause eviction. And I believe it was this gentleman in the back who had asked that question. Well, I think that...
 Oregon has a prohibition on enacting rules that would require a landlord to give a reason for a termination of tenancy. And many other states or localities have rules that prescribe a landlord must give reasons and certain reasons that would qualify for a termination of tenancy. Oregon is not a state that allows that. So, yes.
 You know, I'm sure that in many landlords' minds they may have particular reasons, but tenants are not informed of those reasons when tenancies are terminated by landlords. It is not a requirement under Oregon state law. Very good. And we have a policy coming before the council at some point. It is not directly linked to this policy at all, but it's related to unreinforced masonry buildings. Yes. And...
 It's my understanding this ordinance does not cover that. Is that correct? That's correct. So it will be discussed within the context of the unreinforced masonry discussion. So I would encourage folks, if they have insights or information related to unreinforced masonry, if you wouldn't mind just shooting me an e-mail. Sure.
 at mayorwheeleratportlandoregon.gov. I'd love to get your perspectives on that as we shape that policy. And then there was this last question that was raised, and I'm sorry I don't remember what the conversation was originally around. This applies to all tenants regardless of income. What do you say to that criticism? We test the landlords. Okay.
 Not you. I wanted to hear their opinion. Thank you. So this did come up in the Relocation Assistance Technical Advisory Committee, and it was actually in the context of the hardship waiver, in that if the city were to establish a system that would also create some sort of income qualification for renters, that there should be, as a compromise the group agreed, there should be a hardship waiver.
 for the landlords, but everyone acknowledged it would be a longer-term solution because you'd have to put in place a lot more administrative structure in order to actualize a policy framework. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? What's the process for a four-cause eviction? You would file an FED or eviction detainer in court after a number of notices required under state law for the tenant, and you would be going to...
 eviction court. Sometimes just the filing of those notices actually result in a tenant moving out, but if forced, you then go through the court process and it's adjudicated at Multnomah County Circuit Court. So
 Moving forward, I just got back from England. In fact, it's 3 a.m. on the time I was at yesterday, so I feel I'm standing up. All-nighter. I'm pulling an all-nighter here. Very similar situation there, although they have a lot more public housing, but still they do also rely on...
 private landlords and have a similar problem. So it was amazing to go 5,000 miles and find it's exactly the same situation even though a different construct. But the City of Aberdeen, Scotland apparently has done something that looks at both forecourt, well the whole process of evictions in general and has done something like this, although I don't think it's been really but
 I just suggest that there may be some things that would make things better for everybody because they were able... Although there were...
 they put in protections for their renters, the landlords came in and supported it because there was also some things to make it easier when there is a problem. Because hopefully we all have agreement that when the tenant has done nothing wrong, that the tenant should be able to stay. And if the tenant has done something wrong, then it shouldn't be so hard to...
 have to go through an extensive court process to fix that, which also, of course, has the effect of leaving the tenant with a record of a four-course eviction, which I imagine is then very difficult to rent if that has happened. So just a suggestion that we should look for others. We'll definitely look that up. I'd be intrigued to see what Aberdeen is doing. Thank you. There were two issues that a number of people raised, including, I believe, Commissioner Udaly.
 that could be potential subjects of discussion for the RSC. One was this question of creating a hardship policy, and a number of people mentioned that in their testimony. And then there was this idea that somebody had proffered an incentive in exchange for a long-term agreement
 to hold the rent at a certain level of affordability. And the individual who testified had proposed 2.5%. But I thought that without commenting on the particular structure or the particular percentage that she offered, I thought it was an interesting idea and that could potentially be an area of study for the RSC as well. Absolutely. Any other questions, Commissioner Udaly? I just wanted to add to the conversation about RSC
 just cause versus no cause eviction, to be clear, right now we are preempted at the state level from defining just cause. I think it's clear from the landlord testimony that landlords would actually really benefit from clear definitions of just cause because there are undoubtedly situations where it's very hard to prove, as we heard from one landlord, that a tenant is in fact
 breaking the rules of their rental agreement or lease that would be legitimate just cause reasons. Unfortunately, not having just cause standards also makes it very easy for bad actors on the other side to retaliate against tenants who request repairs, who, for whatever reason, want to discriminate against a tenant, etc.
 and or may just personally not like a tenant, which I don't think would qualify as a just cause for taking away someone's housing. So that is something, you know, it's not going to come up in the short session, unfortunately. I hope we get to return to that conversation in earnest next year. And I do want to note that while pursuing a just cause or eviction,
 in court does require some added steps and expense to landlords. There's a reason our eviction court is called an eviction mill, and it's because landlords...
 have it easier in that process typically than tenants who typically cannot afford legal representation and are left to negotiate with the landlord or frequently with the landlord's attorney or representative. And the outcomes are not necessarily what that tenant is entitled to by law. So
 I do. It's a maybe rare occasion where I am hearing legitimate complaints from landlords. Unfortunately, we need to lobby our state legislature to give us back our regulatory tools so that we can manage these issues locally.
 Thank you. That's really helpful. And in terms of the cost, would it be more expensive for a relocation fee or to go through the four-cause eviction? I'm going to venture to guess that the typical four-cause eviction is much cheaper than reload, but there are, of course, going to be
 circumstances where that battle is protracted and it could be more expensive than reload. I would say that's correct. Thank you. Very helpful. Thank you everybody for all your testimonies. It's been a very good hearing. Excellent. So we have an ordinance. We have two open amendments. We will move those to second reading. And is that next week or two weeks or is that to be determined? I think we can move them to second reading until we've voted on them.
 He didn't vote on the amendments. So we just continue. Okay, so are we continuing to next week or two weeks? That's my understanding is next week. Next week? Is that right, Michelle? Good. All right. Thank you, everybody. We are adjourned.