They must have heard me through things this morning. Is your person here? Oh yeah, Bob's here. So we could start. But have you heard from the mayor? I would hate to have him think we're not interested in his meeting here. Shut up. For not him, not his folks. I saw Mustafa going into my office for snacks. Ah. So. It's not a good sign. What new stuff? What snacks do you have? I have a lot of snacks. I have a lot of snacks. I have a lot of snacks. I have a lot of snacks. I have a lot of snacks. I have a lot of snacks. I have a lot of snacks. What snacks do you have? We have some granola bars and lemon heads, mints. What's a lemon head? I think they made them. A lemon head? Like a little, oh, it's just a little yellow lemon-flavored ball. Oh, okay. I think we'd call them lemon drops. Yes, but it's a brand. Oh, okay. Like a classic American candy. Interesting. Yeah, but it has a coating unlike lemon drops. Yes. You probably like them. Yeah. It's just sugar from way back. It's sugar center that's hard, and it's surrounded by sour lemon. Yeah. So the outside's softer. 41 years I've been here, and I've never heard of a lemon head. I can't believe that. Oh. Oh, well, you'll have to try one. We can hook you up. Yeah. I don't know. That sounds horrible. Similar era of Red Hots and Boston Baked Beans, candies. Oh. So Carla, we'll just go ahead and get started. I'll call the afternoon session, March 4th, 2020 session to order. Carla, we had moved an agenda item from this morning to this afternoon. Oh yes, let's call the roll first. See who's here. Fritz. Here. Edailey. Here. Weiner. Hardesty. Here. Do you want to read the council rules first? Yes, if you'd like to read an abbreviated version. I think we have well-behaved people in the audience now. So a very short suite to the point one would be great. I'll shorten it real quick. Welcome to Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets through the city's business. To participate in council meetings you need to sign up in advance outside. When you do participate please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. And please disclose if you're a lobbyist or if you're representing an organization please identify it. The presiding officer will determine the length of testimony. It's generally three minutes unless otherwise set. Please remain seated in council chambers unless you're entering or exiting. And if you're filming the proceeding, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony of council deliberations will not be allowed. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Good. Good afternoon, everyone. Carla, could you please call item 192 from this morning? We moved it to the afternoon schedule. Authorize a support and maintenance gap contract with Versaterm, Inc. for the computer-aided dispatch system used by the Bureau of Emergency Communications not to exceed $2 million. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. We have here Bob Cossie, who is the Director of the Bureau of Emergency Communications to explain the need for this update and what the next steps are. Welcome. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I'm Bob Cossie, Director of the Bureau of Emergency Communications. I'm here today to request approval authorizing a support and maintenance gap contract with Versaterm Incorporated. for the computer-aided dispatch, or known as our CAD system, used by our Bureau. The original contract with Versaterm for implementation, licensing, and support is expired. It expired July 3rd of 2019. BOEC asked the Procurement Office to draft a five-year contract with one-year renewal options for a maximum of 10 years for licensing and support only. Procurement recommended this GAAP contract to allow ample time to negotiate the new contract with Versaterm. The Procurement Office anticipates some back-and-forth negotiations, and this contract allows BOEC to maintain support in the interim. The requested amount is $2 million, which will cover up to two years of support and allow for implementation of new interfaces with the CAD system that have already been budgeted, such as ProQA, which is our new medical and fire triage, as well as a logging recorder upgrade and alarm call processing protocol. These VersaTerm costs are already budgeted and the vendor has continued, even though the contract has expired, they've continued to offer the same level of support. There is no change in anticipated expenses. Upon completion of the new master contract, BOEC will return to City Council with a new ordinance for approval. Do you have any questions? Well done. Any questions, colleagues? Public testimony on this item? I show three people signed up. Ashton Simpson, A. Sangesi, and Casey Park. Okay, the next one is a report. We don't have sign-up sheets for reports. So, sorry. They signed up on a wrong item. Okay. Very good. This is an emergency ordinance. If there's no further discussion, please call the roll. Fritz. I'm feeling quite old because I got the initial Versatim contract settled in my first six months in office. So, it's really nice to see that it has... It was delivered on time under budget and it works. And we're very happy that we don't have to change to another CAD system again. So we've been very happy with this term. They've been a good vendor and have provided a lot of good support. And so I'm very much in favor of continuing to collaborate with them. Hi. Hardesty. Hardesty. I want to thank you very much, Director Cossie. I am also excited that we are continuing this contract as we prepare to start training around ProQA. It's important that our system works. And thank you for understanding that the procurement process isn't as quick as some of us would like it to be sometimes. And so it's always good to have some wiggle room as we're moving from one contract to another. I vote aye. Uday Lee.
 Aye.
 Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, Director. Next up. That was record time. It was pretty fast. Yeah, it was pretty fast. Next up is our one time certain item for this afternoon. 193, please, Carla. Neighborhood Prosperity Network seven year update. Colleagues, in January, it was my pleasure to participate in the grand opening of NSECA, a new affordable housing project. in our 42nd Avenue neighborhood prosperity district. Our 42nd Avenue is one of seven districts that make up the neighborhood prosperity network. The neighborhood prosperity network has been a very important of the city's economic development strategy activity since 2012. It allows those closest to the issues to create solutions that meet the needs of communities that have been historically underserved and underrepresented. Now known as the Neighborhood Prosperity Network, the group encompasses seven community partner organizations that are working to foster economic development across the city. They include the Cooley Boulevard Alliance, the Division Midway Alliance, Historic Park Rose, the Jade District, R42nd Avenue, the Rosewood Initiative, and the St. John's Center for Opportunity. Our work to address disparities in opportunity and enlist community driven solutions to serve neighborhood health and prosperity is key if we're going to continue to be a city of innovation and progress. Today we have the opportunity to hear from Director Kimberly Branham and Tori Campbell from Prosper Portland, who will provide a seven-year update on the Neighborhood Prosperity Network. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Kimberly Branham. I'm the Executive Director of Prosper Portland, and we are delighted to be here with you today. As was mentioned, I'm joined by Tori Campbell, who is our Economic Development Director. And we are here to provide you with an update on the Neighborhood Prosperity Network program. So I'm going to provide some context about the program, how we got to where we are today. And then Tori is going to talk about some of the key accomplishments as well as those things that we've learned over the last seven to eight years and what the next few years might look like. Very good. And, Director Branham, just so people know what the agenda is for the remainder of the presentation, we're then going to hear some invited testimony from the Rosewood Initiative, the Division Midway Alliance, and also a business owner from the Cully Central. Thank you. Thank you. And so I just want to start with an editorial, which is in 2011 when we envisioned the creation of a community-led, community-driven economic development program. We kind of our highest aspiration was that we would have a number of community-led organizations that were engaged in economic development. But it was really an aspiration and we are just as we look back on this we are so proud of what we've accomplished over these last eight years through these partnerships. It really has transformed from our perspective the ecosystem of community-led, community-driven economic development in the city. And what you're going to hear and what you already know through these partners is that they have made such a significant and outsized impact in each of their respective areas in a way that is very much tailored to their individual communities. So I'm not going to take too much time giving the preamble because we want to make sure that you're hearing from them. But we are really heartened by this and by your continued support for this partnership. So thank you. So the Neighborhood Prosperity Network program is directly aligned with our strategic plan. We apply our work to support community capacity and workforce development, as well as to make connections with business development and technical assistance. So all of this that you see in the black ring, as well as commercial and mixed-use investments. really to achieve productive partnerships with the community to solve those things that we cannot solve by ourselves and which in many ways are better solved through partnership, as well as to ensure that we are supporting equitable wealth creation through business development and property ownership, as well as increasing access to quality employment and creating healthy, complete neighborhoods. Kimberly, is that slide fuzzy? What's going on? Maybe I'm just losing my eyesight. Is it fuzzy? Fuzzy? It is a bit fuzzy. OK. Wow. OK. It's not showing up that way, though, on your laptop? It's not. OK. All right. We can find another more crisp one. Yeah, we'll find a better one. No worries. Thank you. The Neighborhood Prosperity Network is our city's signature community economic development program. And the overarching approach, as I've mentioned, is a community-led, community-driven, inclusive economic development approach. In 2011, we selected the districts that you see here based on the demographic and business characteristics of the area. So in particular, we highlighted areas with higher level of poverty than the city average, lagging commercial investments, and a higher concentration of people of color than the city average. We also looked for strong assets in terms of community capacity. So we went looking for communities that had muscle memory or had institutions that we could work with, community institutions or nonprofits who we could engage to do this kind of community-led, community-driven work. This program built on input that we received from key community partners as well as an analysis at the time that compared to other cities across the country, Portland had relatively few community-led organizations focused on economic development. By contrast, we had a lot of community capacity around affordable housing, even a very significant understanding of land use, but this was an area when we compared ourselves to other cities that we saw we had room for growth. So this map shows the location of each of the seven districts, six of which are within micro tax increment finance districts. The micro TIF districts were created to ensure that the community based organizations could help impact the physical environment. So each district was created to ensure that there would be $1.25 million generated between seven to ten years to be used by the communities to impact local community development, local economic development. St. John's is in North Portland and is included in the interstate tax increment finance district, so that's a slightly different model. Mr. Hurst is. Please. Thank you, Mayor. Excuse me, Kimberly. Yes. Is that tax incremental financing that has been financing these locations? Yes. Yeah, so it's a mixture of funding sources. So tax increment finance as well as general fund as well as revenue share, which is just another way of talking about property taxes. It goes within that 1.25 million revenue source. And I think, do we use E-Zone and Community Development Block Grant dollars as well? Commissioner Fritz? My recollection is it was just the city's tax increment finance that it doesn't affect the school districts or the county. Is that correct? No, the county is saying that. It does impact. So the thing that was unique about the tax increment finance district is that there's no long-term debt. So once we reach the $1.25 million of maximum indebtedness, then the districts don't have a tail. And that because... Revenue, so revenue sharing kicks in at 10%. So at the point at which you are collecting 10% of the maximum indebtedness, which in this case would be about $100,000 a year, then you start to begin to share the excess revenue with the city and the state school fund and the county. In this case, the city and the county share. determined that they would dedicate their revenue sharing portions to these districts, which have allowed for a lot of the programming and operating operating revenues and programming. So that was a choice that was made by City Council and Multnomah County at the time and so it really did have very minimal impact on the county, the state. It's not your standard tax income. It's not your standard. It's a very different model. And when Kimberly's saying we, she did this with myself. So it's really cool that you started it and now you're the director of the Portland Development Commission and have seen it through. Thank you. And, you know, also the context is 2011 was still in the middle of the recession. And yet they were looking at where are the areas that most need the economic boost. Yeah. Well, I really appreciate that and I have other partners here. So Dana DeKlein, who was program manager, who's been with us throughout. And so we've had phenomenal partnerships and we are really proud of what we've accomplished since 2011. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Herdsky, do you have a question? Okay. I'll wait. I just want to clarify. Yeah. So I'll just quickly mention that the program for each district is led through a place-based, community-driven, economic development, nonprofit organization. And so they each have hired a full-time district manager. They each have a community-directed board. And they each are really powered by volunteer and community support. So in the last year we have taken a look at how the districts have evolved. As I mentioned, we wanted to make sure that the program was focused on ensuring that historically marginalized communities could remain and grow in the neighborhoods. And so we were looking at the demographic information as well as some other socioeconomic information that I'll speak to. And so I just want to point to a few demographic data points that indicate that the districts remain more diverse than the rest of the city. And it points to the unique characteristics of each of these districts. We don't have seven districts that are all the same. They each have their own composition and characteristics. So for example, the R42nd community is 16.1% African American as compared to 6.3% in the city as a whole. The Rosewood community is 23% Latino as compared to 10% in the city. The J District community is 23% Asian American, which is almost three times as much as the city as a whole. And we have more than double the percent of Pacific Islanders in Park Rose compared to the city. On the next slide. It also continues to highlight the ongoing income disparities and education levels. So we continue to have differential median income households between even those neighborhoods that are closer in. So Cully versus the city of Portland. Much higher, much lower degrees of bachelor degree or higher education levels within Division Midway, which indicates... potential hindrance to accessing certain employment opportunities. We have a higher percentage of renters in Rosewood than we do the city as a whole, and we have a higher preponderance of students of color in St. John's than we do as a city as a whole. Now, I know that this is not news to anybody in council, but we have wanted to make sure that we didn't just make assumptions in 2011 and then come back 10 years later and see what happens. So we are in the process of discussing these kinds of findings with Roswood. our partners. So with that I'll turn it over to Tori to dig into the details. Can I ask one question Kimberly? On the prior slide when you were looking at racial demographic data, you identified four particular areas, four particular identifiers Is, you know, there are other demographic data we can be using across the city. For example, Native American is not included here. Yeah. Can you explain a little further why these four are being reflected here? Yeah, it's a terrific question. So the team has put together, and we can share a district-by-district profile that includes information for white, African American, Native American, Asian, Pacific Islander. So it's broken down district-by-district. We wanted to highlight where you had the highest percentage of African Americans and Pacific Islanders and Asian Americans and the Latino community. And so that's what this slide shows. You have the highest preponderance of Native Americans in Cully and St. John's at about 2% of the population. And just to be clear, it's not exclusionary in any regard. So if you're not seeing your demographic there, it doesn't mean it's not important to the district. No, absolutely not. It's not under consideration. It just isn't the major non-majority demographic. That's right. Yeah. discussed. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I was going to wait, but since you brought it up on this slide, I was surprised to see Asian Pacific Islander separated because traditionally we combine Asian Pacific Islanders together. Was there a specific reason why we decouple that for this particular slide? Yeah, I think this was aligned with the census, how the census data was reported. And so I can look to the team. Could you come to the mic just because other people listening might be really interested in this. They want to hear it. what you've got to say. And introduce yourself, please. Dana D. Klein with CrossFit Portland, program manager for the NPN. So I think we grappled with how do we display this information because there's so much information. So we literally just gave you a couple highlights. So it wasn't like we picked... These are our favorite demographics, but rather how do we kind of show the example of these districts truly are more diverse, and there's some highlights that we just wanted to give you highlights. Okay, great. So the NPIs aren't specifically focused on these particular demographics. Okay, that's just the point I wanted to make. Yeah, yeah. Great. Thank you. I appreciate it. Commissioner E. David? Just it's problematic that we group. Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders together because they're communities that are facing really different or potentially facing really different challenges and have different needs we have a sizable Tongan community and I'm you know, people who are basically climate refugees coming here. And their needs are going to be really different than some other Asian immigrants. So I just want to encourage disaggregation, especially in that community. Thank you. Thank you. As do I. I mean, I think my, I was just curious because everything else the city does has Asian Pacific Islanders combined. Yeah. So, we're actually going to be able to measure whether or not we're having an impact. We can have some boroughs collecting data one way and other boroughs collecting data another way. So, it's really important that we all agree kind of on. what data we're collecting, right, and how we're reporting that data. So I mean, because I think the same with the African community. They don't want to be called African American, but we stick them in that box because we don't have another box for them, right? And so I think this is a healthy conversation and we just need to be mindful because if we don't know why the decision was made, then we'll miss people. Yeah, thank you very much. We will make sure that both on our website and we'll share with you the full report and make sure that we have an explanation as to why the decisions were made and what the data source is. So I appreciate that. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. See what you saw. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, my name is Tory Campbell, Director of Economic Development at PROSPER. I'm going to walk you through a little bit more of the program in terms of both the funding but also highlighting three of the major priorities. I'll also share a little bit about some of the successes this year with respect to problem solving and building communities. So again, the program funding, it shows you what it is with respect to the grant. that's received on an annual basis in terms of where those dollars are allocated to support each of the networks. And so there is a full-time district manager. There's opportunities for promotion within the funding, obviously, to promote each district. There's also opportunities for technical assistance. That's by way of actually helping to build capacity of the organizations. District improvements and, again, highlighting the revenue share, just again that there are multiple streams of funding that really go together to make the networks work. I want to spend a little bit of time talking around just the importance of community building. The NPNs are distinct. They're not necessarily a business association or a neighborhood association. They really are kind of a community-led and driven organization that really is trying to uplift and build the capacity of the whole of the neighborhood. Obviously, for us, there is an emphasis on economic development as a core, essential, But as you imagine with an organization like this, they're going to touch the needs of a variety of things that show up in community. And so they have to be responsive. It requires a lot of collaboration with other partners as well as other bureaus. And so they really stand in many respects as an epicenter for what the community is experiencing and how they're able to respond to the needs in a very nimble and localized way within each district. So some of the things that have, the opportunities and if you will, the inventions and solutions that have arisen in terms of just problem solving have been around signature events such as our farmers markets. There are two districts that have farmers markets that are able to provide fresh food annually to the community. There's also the Jade Night Market is probably the one that stands out if you're just measuring by sheer volume of number. But all the other ones are no less important. Over two days, over 25,000 will descend into the J district and enjoy the wares and the smells and the sights and the sounds of a very diverse and growing community. But you'll find that in every district as they all are finding fresh footing to say this is who we are when we show up at our best. There's also, again with an emphasis on economic development, each district in their own unique way is able to provide monthly business seminars and cultural connections. I want to talk a little bit more in depth around the priorities that are going to be centered around business development, workforce, and also just development of properties within each district. So the goal for each district, obviously, is to create and grow and strengthen micro and small businesses through technical assistance and training. This is done in part through our inclusive business resource network. So there's a nexus there where the network is able to – has identified – partners to actually go out and provide the small business technical assistance for each of the neighborhood prosperity networks. That's a good collaboration showing, again, synergy within existing programs within Prosper to meet the needs of each of the neighborhoods. I believe this year 62 businesses received long-term small business support, where 134 businesses throughout the district received about $1,000. They received light touch. And so it shows you that both and is necessary and needed, and that flexibility of working within our programs is providing the opportunity for businesses to call those communities home, to stay rooted, and also grow and expand. Thank you. The next priority is connection to employment. Obviously, workforce is incredible. We've talked about the profile of each district and why we have chosen them in terms of a high concentration of diverse populations. But also poverty is expressed there and so we felt like one of the core things for people to be able to live in place is to be able to find meaningful work and jobs that are paying a livable wage. So bless you, Commissioner. One of the strategies was to employ, and we've seen tremendous success, what we call our workforce navigators. So we have four that provide support through all of the districts. We're basically there. They're a face in the community that is familiar to help individuals navigate the system, to navigate opportunities for employment. And Work Systems, Inc. is now the contract manager for our workforce program. And we are very proud of what that's been able to do in terms of helping to galvanize the community. We realize with historic... low unemployment within our state and even our city that if you are not employed or if you're underemployed, it requires a unique set of interventions to support you. And so the navigators provide that very unique point of connection. To date, the Workforce Navigator Program has served 1,620 people, just to kind of give you a sense of scale of those four individuals within the community. And 81.6% are people of color that have been served through that. So I, Mayor. May I? Yes, ma'am. Just wanted to make sure that we put on the record, when you talk about the low unemployment rate, what you're really talking about is a white job seeking population primarily. So I want to be clear because I know that young people of color have the highest unemployment rate nationally and locally across the board, right? I know that people of color have have a much as always twice whatever the white unemployment rate is. I also know that once you just get frustrated and stop looking, you are no longer counted in the data. And so I just want to be really clear that we are not at a place where we're at 5% unemployment, right? That's just for a very narrow segment of our community. And so didn't want that to be like people think, oh, we're all that because we're not all that yet. AGREE. THE NEXT AREA WE WANT TO TALK ABOUT IS COMMUNITY-LED PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT. WE'RE FINDING THAT THIS IS A GROWING capacity with respects to the neighborhood, the initiatives. It's interesting because you'd imagine with each organization there's a level of maturity and growth that just has to happen for you to take on more complex opportunities within the community. The fact that we have several projects that have taken place, that have either been built out or have been purchased and redeveloped is a true sign of the overall growth within the district. So we're very proud of that. So two examples in front of you. The first one is our 42nd and it is a property, let me get it in front of me, R42nd, they purchased this property shown in the slide from a long time property owner with the assistance of our Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative Opportunity Fund. And the district is now in negotiations with the local business owner to purchase the building and negotiate community benefits agreements to ensure that private community members are able to stabilize their business in the district. So basically they purchased the property, they're selling it back, to someone who will operate within a CBA and create opportunities for more affordable commercial tendering for businesses in the community. That's a great sign of a community taking kind of their ownership and self-determination of helping keep businesses in place. The second one is, which you are very familiar with, is the Orchards on 82nd, which is a true testament, again, of the affordable housing that Rose CDC did in partnership with APANO. So these are great examples where, again, the community is showing its real strength and thoughtfulness with respects to the way in which the community is growing and really trying to retain the core of that community. Just a few more. I get to highlight just in terms of problem solving. I think that's always appreciated. Um, too often it's very easy for us and the MPN and its design, it really tries to do away with the, to creating policy in the Ivy tower, so to speak, by really trying to localize it within the community. And so anytime there's a problem that they're solving, it definitely, you, you have a stronger sense of that. It actually is meeting the true need in the moment. So, uh, I want to highlight a few commotion, uh, is a space, uh, That again was a property that was purchased by residents within the community of R42nd. They developed the building, it has 19 housing units as well as two commercial ground floor spaces. So it's one of those things that's erected by, we purchased that, we designed that, that's ours and that's incredibly important. Another opportunity in terms of solutions which many of you are familiar with is Legal Services Day which took place out at Rosewood. Which was an opportunity to bring people together to help expunge records of things that were impeding them from being able to move forward in their life. And the program has been successful, it's now been replicated throughout the city and I know they're trying to find ways to move it from just a day to as an ongoing activity. I believe to date 2,000 people receive services through Legal Services Day and I want to get the number right because I've got to give credit where credit's due. Come on, talk about it. 2,000 individuals have been served and over 6 million in fines have been waived. So I think that's incredibly profound in terms of just releasing people back into their ability for upward mobility through the reduction of these fees. Commissioner Hardesty. I'm curious if you have any data on the kind of expungements that people need most. I remember when I did this, when I was working with Oregon Action, that we had people flying in from all over the country. for the opportunity to get the expungements because they have an impact on people's ability to get a driver's license, their ability to get their professional license, et cetera, et cetera. It would really be helpful to know. I mean, I think we have to just go to Salem and change the law around marijuana convictions so that we can stop doing that, investing dollars where we just need to change the law and just fix that. But the other ones I'm really interested in, what are the things that people need most? Yes. That would be very helpful. Thank you. Yeah, we can look into that. That's a great question. And so the last few elements, just again, these are important metrics. You can also tear the narrative of a program through the numbers. These are what we report back to the city. So it shows that with the funding invested on the annual through the grants that each district is able to receive, so far $4.4 million have been leveraged in projects. and private investment. Obviously, it takes a team to really move this forward, so we also highlight the importance of volunteerism within each district, showing the community is really behind this. It's not just a stand-alone organization by itself. And obviously, 180 new net businesses within the district. That's also important to know that it's still... It's kind of the viability and synergy with creating spaces where businesses are, I believe I can go here and be successful as opposed to elsewhere. Tori, could I just ask for a clarification? What is a net new business? When you say net, what do you mean net? Yeah. What's the difference between a net new business and a gross new business? Yeah, so if we were to look at gross businesses, we would be overcounting because there's some number of businesses that have gone out of business during that time period. So we wanted to show that this is the overall additive. It's an additive. So it's actually considerably more than 180. I'm not trying to double count. Oh, that's great. That's great. Good. That's impressive. As well as the jobs that have been created within the districts. In the last few slides, it's just lessons learned. We'd be remiss if we didn't say in all of this, we're still yet in a learning posture. And so these are some of the highlights. East District, as we've already shared in so many ways, needs a tailored approach that makes a lot of sense. But at times it can be very difficult. In the business of life, you want to just kind of put a blanket on everything and say this is for everyone. But the more tailored we see. the more important the outcomes are in terms of meeting their goals. Building relationships are key. I think we know that's incredibly important, particularly with the shifting demographics in our city. Relationships really are at the core of everything we do. Local fundraising is very challenging. We've seen that, particularly as we're now heading into the last few years of this TIFT, strategy, we realize that long-term sustainability is really on the forefront of everyone's mind. And so some of the efforts we've put in in the last few years have been helping build the capacity of grant writing, also starting to look for other revenue streams and things like that. So we'll continue to press into that, knowing that we want to see these organizations and the concepts and really the work that they're representing in their communities be sustainable. And then access to capital is necessary to gain community benefits. you know, it takes money to make money. You have to be able to have capital in order to move things along. And so those are also just lessons learned with respect to how do we find that, how do we source that and ensure that those dollars are available. The last thing is just next steps. So again, support community-led property development. We still want to continue to strengthen each district's ability to do that in their own timing and sequence. It's different for each one but still an important component. We're also exploring, as I mentioned, other funding mechanisms and again just strengthening the the community boards. As you know, everything rises and falls with leadership and so the boards play a very important role in support of the district leads. to be able to make sure they are not only diverse and representative of the community, but they also are healthy and active in order to be that backbone for the work that's at hand. Questions? I had one question on one of your early slides. You don't need to find it again. You were talking about the Neighborhood Prosperity Network, and you were talking about technical assistance with regard to business development. Is that coming through the IBRN or is that a completely separate parallel program? It's coming through the IBRN. We were just making the point that the programs are in alignment. Correct. Great. Excellent. Thank you. Appreciate that. Commissioner Hurtis, do you have a question? I was intrigued to see that in J District, 55% of the employment is white collar. Mm-hmm. I'm kind of shocked by that. So does that mean that there is a high level of doctors, lawyers, those kind of professionals in the Jade District as compared to, say, some of the other districts? For example, there are some that are kind of evenly divided between service and blue collar, but that white collar number really stood out for me. Yeah, I think we have our liaison to the J district who's here, so we can confer and then come back up. Thank you. Yep, on that one. Very good. Okay. Excellent presentation. We'll hear now from invited testimony. We have Ashton Simpson, community asset planner for the Rosewood Initiative is here. And Alicia Shrestha is here from Division Midway Alliance, the executive director. Thank you for being here. Can you walk in with that cute little kid? Yeah, he's over in Commissioner Udailey's office. I was going to say, you can call him up today. He was here a couple of weeks ago. He wanted to talk on the mic. We also have, is it A? I'm sorry. We should have special accommodations for children that come and sit in the council to at least get one shot at the mic. I agree with that. I'll pass the resolution. Thank you all for being here. We really appreciate it. I don't know who wants to start or if it matters who starts. Are you good? Thank you, first of all. Good afternoon, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, Mayor Wheeler, and Commissioner Hardesty for this opportunity to share one of our program highlights on cultural liaison support program. Before I start, as you may already know, that Division Midway Alliance is uniquely positioned in the heart of Midway District, which is home to long-time East Portland residents, first and second generation immigrants, and newly arrived refugees. 51% of our community members who live in the district are non-English speakers. We did a community visioning session in 2018 with 90 community members from Afghani, Burmese, Bhutanese, Somali, Latino and Pacific Islander communities. and they really helped us identify some of the issues and concerns that they have. Some of the highlights of the session was they need a community and business incubation space in our district. And the other thing that they talked about is they, it is very difficult for them to comprehend classes and services that are offered in English and are very advanced. As a way to address some of the issues, we launched cultural liaison support program to serve these communities and we are launching entrepreneurship 101 workshops for limited English language proficient groups who wants to start their own small business. With the support from cultural liaisons, we served 1,017 community members since August 2018. This approach has not only supported our existing program, but also helped us leverage the resources to start new programs, receive grants, and partner with city bureaus. Some of the examples are our existing programs such as storefront grant and business support program are now more accessible to minority business owners. Five out of nine grant recipients are minority business owners. Similarly, now we are able to provide language support to community members during one-on-one business advising session. This approach also helped us build capacity within the community. And as a result of that, a community member led the community gardening trainings, and 12 households have access to land to grow their own food, and we are starting a farmers market in 2020. And we also saw a significant increase in participation from communities of color at our annual event, Festival of Nations. Last year, 75% of the festival planning community members are from communities of color, Rofizi, and immigrants. And that changed the whole scenario, the participation and everything. And we are also able to leverage the cultural liaison support program to start a new program called Youth Environmental Leadership Program where youth of colors lead the environmental awareness training, physical improvements in our community. And they are leading Clean Up Day on 4th of April and you are all invited. You can go to our Facebook page and just register there. Just an invitation. And we are also a public site of TriMet low income fair program. It is all because of cultural liaison support program because 50% of the members enrolled receive language support through this program. So what we have learned from this process and experience is that the best service can be given to communities when we adopt practices that are holistic in nature. and culturally specific in approach. And thank you for NPN to provide that opportunity through this partnership. Thank you. Appreciate it. What day was your cleanup day? Fourth of April. April 4th? Yeah, it's from 10 to 12. I need to go back and check. People wanted to find information on that. It's on Facebook. Yeah, Facebook. On Facebook. And Instagram too. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioner Udailey, Fritz, Hardesty. My name is Ashton Simpson. I'm the community asset planner at the Rosewood Initiative. And we're a community center that hosts a whole host of responsive programming for a diverse community. Tori kind of stole my thunder a bit talking about Legal Services Day. So I'll talk a little bit about the low-income fare program that we just took on at Rosewood where we signed folks up for low-income fare. And in doing so, we do everything but print the card out. So from the time we submit the application, within a week or two, they have their card in their mailbox. So that saves them the trip of coming down here to Pioneer Square to get an ID. So that has been of great benefit to our community. Thank you. And since 2019, we've been busy taking those same community voices in creating the Rosewood Equitable Neighborhood Development Plan. It's a lot, I know. But it's great work because it is driven by the requirements outlined in the J.P. Morgan Chase Planning Grant that we were awarded last year. And is rooted in developing Rosewood into a more vibrant, safer, and healthier community. Thank you. The framework for our plan is to develop three to five key sites in the half mile radius of the Rosewood Community Center and build on investments being made by the city of Portland. Our plan is focused on addressing issues identified by the community with focuses on housing stability, education, community health and wellness, transportation, climate change, resilience, placemaking, cultivation of community culture, as well as economic and wealth building opportunities. For Rosewood's part, this planning process is part of a broader strategy to mitigate involuntary displacement by taking control of underutilized land in which our organization would develop while being advised by those same community voices. It's also very important that we have a long-term coordinated vision while aligning public investment strategically and creating a healthier neighborhood. Over the next three months, we will be working with Serra Architects, that's S-E-R-A, Metro, a PSU MERC team, and Eco Northwest to develop our equitable neighborhood development plan. And this work will be guided by heavy community involvement, building on the strength of surrounding community partner networks, and incorporating the major public investments into a safer and healthier and better connected community. Currently, Portland Parks and Rec is set to invest $16 million in the Park Lane Park expansion. 21.7 in safety and repaving improvements along Stark and 162nd have been programmed by PBOT, totaling $37.7 million of public investment committed to our community. And oh, by the way... If the T2020 ballot measure passes, there will be an additional $90 million of funds on 162nd. So the work of the Rosewood Equitable Neighborhood Development Plan would be to connect those major investments with extensive community engagement and workshop sessions to create our plan, which we will use to develop the area from within for years to come. Thank you for the opportunity to present on this much needed work. We look forward to continuing our efforts to achieve a safer, vibrant and healthier Rosewood. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it, Commissioner Hearst. Thank you. I just had one question. The knock-knock $90 million, where did you say that would come from? The T20. Sorry. Get there, 2020. Yeah, we don't call it T20 anymore. Sorry, that's my mistake. Are we talking about the transportation bond? Yes, ma'am. Thank you very much. I was just trying to figure out what you were talking about. Oh, no, no, no. Absolutely. 2020. Thank you. That is a shameless and totally appreciated plug. Well, I mean, apparently you know a little bit more than I do about what's going to be in that package because you already believe that $90 million is going to be invested in the East Portland neighborhood near Rosewood. I hope you're right. What is that information based on? Go ahead, Commissioner. I'm on that task force, so I could talk to you. offline, but we've selected the top tier corridors and 162nd is one of them. And it's, we've got a really nice package coming together. Wow. I will withhold judgment until I see it. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Yeah, no problem. Thank you, Commissioner Dorey, Fritz, and Hardesty, and Mayor Willow for having me here to speak. I'm just here to attest, the unwavering effort and support that um coley boulevard alliance and prosper have provided to our small business owners in coley neighborhood my name is ace angus i'm one of the owners at coley central and we um we're a restaurant bar serving lausanne food and Coley Boulevard Alliance has been the most amazing supportive organization I've ever known. They provided a lot of support, network, and resources to us as business owners. And they provided a grant for us to kind of do a facelift in our building to make it a welcoming, safe environment for the neighborhood and our customers. We've... We've worked with Indigenous Market last year providing an area for them to come and sell some of their crafts because they've reached out to us with the help of Coley Boulevard Alliance. We've networked. And then they've reached out to us and asked us, is there a place where they could come do an event there because they don't have any funding and going to other places is going to cost them a lot of money. So Koli Boulevard Alliance has encouraged us and with the support of all the things they've done for us, it only makes sense. We also provide the same support and and kind of partnership with people like Indigenous Marketplace, you know, like a free place for them to come and do the things they need to do. So in that effort, we've also reached out to a lot of the neighborhood and Koli Neighborhood Alliance area to kind of support. There was a fire that happened last year, and we've helped raise some money to help support some of the owners that – had their house burned down and all those things. So I'm also, last couple of weeks ago, we were in a process of trying to buy the building that we currently lease, so that way we would have more of a permanent place to kind of provide these positive support places and then making a difference in the neighborhood. With the help of Coley Boulevard Alliance and Prosper, we had two weeks to come up with with the funds and we were strapped in time and it was almost an impossible undertaking thing that we had to do but because of The people they know, the network that they had, the resources that they were able to provide to us, we actually made it happen. And it was like an impossible thing that was possible. So it made us feel like the power of the partnership, collaboration, commitment, and networking was unbelievable. It goes to show how amazing all that we were able to accomplish when we come together as a team. So I just want to say thank you for all that they've done. As small business owners, the support that was provided by these organizations have been nothing but amazing. Our gratitude and appreciation will never be enough, and I just wanted to make sure that it is highlighted that the things that they've done, the efforts that they've provided more than I could ever ask for as a small business owner, as a first-time business owner. I would have never known where to go, what to do, and who to look for to help us do these things. And the things that I've done is consistently, persistently, every day they would check up on us to make sure we got what we needed and all the help that we could get in order to move forward with all the things we needed to do. That's great. Is my mic a little? You're just a little close to it. That's all right. Oh, they are. Yeah, they're funky. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a question? Tell the folks at home again the name of your business and where it is. Coley Central. It's on 60th and Prescott and Going Street. Sounds fabulous. Thank you. Congratulations. Oh, thank you. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, colleagues, Kimberly, unless I missed anything, that completes the presentation or is there? Could I ask Kimberly to come back up? Oh, yeah. Come on up. Sure. We're ahead of schedule. No worries. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. So we wanted to respond to the questions around expungement and what for, what was expunged, and then the composition of the workforce within the Jade District. Okay. within expungement, what has been found is that Traffic charges that then go unpaid and lead to license suspensions are particularly problematic as are low-level drug offenses and drug charges. So we work through the Metropolitan Public Defender, which is our partner in this work. And so we can get more fine-grained information if we wanted to share that in a legislative way. But just from a high level, those are the major challenges. Thank you. Yes, they get money from us from several sources. So the next time they're in front of us, I'll make sure to ask them for more details about that. Thank you. And what did you find out about white-collar versus blue-collar and service jobs? So we had a chance to talk with the district manager and highlight it. It really centers around... some of the schooling that's in the area. So, Warner Pacific, PCC, and Harrisburg. So, those jobs are nestled right there in the jade. And that's what has elevated that percentage. So, to your point, it makes you say, what? I was like, what? I was like, yeah, that didn't make sense to me. All right, that, ding, ding, ding. And the last question is, I noticed that for the Rosewood Initiative area, the per capita income is $20,747. Mm-hmm. That tells a story in and of itself. And so it is how are the efforts that we're doing through this actually raising the income of residents in the Rosewood Initiative area? I mean, I think that there are some low ones, but that's the lowest one I saw based on your report. Okay. Well, I mean, I think we can share a perspective on that. I would say that just starting back, if we go back to 2012, Rosewood was a partner who very early on indicated that creating connections to quality employment was a more appropriate intervention for their district than supporting and having such a focus on supporting individual businesses. So Jenny and her team here can talk a little bit about all that they've done to make sure that they have a robust partnership with Southeast Works, that they have a lot of connections to employment for people who are formerly incarcerated and who are within the district and But I think they have also looked at how they partner with local schools, and they have a program for English language learners. I mean, they are actively working to make sure that people have the opportunity to connect and to grow their incomes, and to identify those barriers that come up to employment. So expungement to make sure that you can actually have a driver's license can be a really important endeavor. Thank you. Absolutely. And especially if the median rent is $811, if you are only making a little over $20,000 a year, you can't rent in Rosewood area if you are working minimum wage jobs. And so it really does highlight the disconnect between... where we think housing that is naturally affordable is, and actually where people who are desperate and really on the edges of housing security, because I know folks in Rosewood pay more, to get into substandard housing, and then they can't actually afford to get out of that substandard housing because of first last security deposit, pet deposit, and pet rent, in order to move into another location. So I hope we're able to, with the information that you've been able to gather, have a more robust conversation about what additional supports, because clearly just building housing at 60% of MFI is not going to move the needle at all in Rosewood. So thank you both. Thank you. I'd like to hear something about the future as well. I mean, obviously relationships matter, and I see, I think I recognize just about every single person in the room right at the moment, and you've built up a community around these programs. What's next? Where are we going from here? It's a really important and good question, and I think one of the, it's the question that we've been having and will continue to have with each organization is, From the onset, we anticipated that each organization would determine what its path should be. So whether an organization wanted to eventually become a community development corporation or become part of another existing nonprofit organization, or if seven to 10 years felt like the right term of their interventions. And so I think we are at a staff level having those conversations with the district managers and with their boards about what the future looks like. There are some districts like R42nd and the Cully Boulevard Alliance, which is actively, with the support of resources from Metro and through the general fund, considering the potential of a new tax increment finance district, which would support larger scale projects. So I think we are in active conversations. I don't feel like we can at this point forecast. But from our perspective, this remains... a essential ecosystem within the city of Portland. And so we want to do whatever we can to continue to make sure that they are resourced and supported. One of the things that Tori mentioned is how challenging it's been to raise funds. And I just want to underscore that. The Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative districts have done an exemplary job of raising funds for projects and programs. So they really have met or exceeded what we thought they would achieve when we were business modeling this out in 2012 for overall grants. It has been more challenging, however, and is always the case to find operational funding, which is the key gap that we help to secure because we have ongoing revenue to support district managers and other of that. essential, you know, keeping the lights on kind of work. So I think that's one of the key areas that we'll need to collectively solve for over the next few years. Yeah, and this is a bigger Portland question as well. What is the role of government? What is the role of philanthropy? What is the role of NPOs in trying to figure out the resourcing questions? Yeah, so we look forward to future conversations with you about that as we engage both at the districts and with our partners. That's something I'm very interested in. Yeah, thank you. We appreciate it. Great. Thanks, Tori. Appreciate it. I'll entertain a motion. Move to accept the report. I'll let, okay, very good. We'll let Commissioner Fritz make a motion to accept the report. Commissioner Hardesty seconds the proposal. Any further questions? Carla, please call the roll. This is really exciting. Thank you everybody for being here. This represents a lot of work over a lot of time by a lot of people. So thank you very much for all of coming back to tell not only the council but the people of Portland what have you been doing with money that would otherwise have gone into the general fund and I think the answer is absolutely wonderful amount of things. Kimberly Branham, when working with Sam Adams this was your brainchild and now you're the executive director of Prosper Portland. I think it's very safe to say that Prosper Portland is not your father's Portland Development Commission and the Commission and the work that all of you are doing really has been censoring equity and looking at who benefits who pays and is that fair? And so I really appreciate that this, I'm really excited about this program. I think I've, When we established it during the recession, it was kind of like, oh, every penny counts. And can we find, how are we going to make this work with everything else that needs to get funded and the other support for basically jobs at that time? So it was a leap of faith. And you have really done a wonderful job of repaying our faith and making sure that that it's worked and it will continue to work and so I'm glad to hear too about the the next steps because when you have a 10-year program and we're on year seven you know you don't want all this great work to go away we know um that it is difficult for these districts to raise money within them themselves it's not like you know seven years check you know we're now some of the most affluent areas of Portland, they're still not. So I will be perhaps looking from the sidelines after this year to find out what you're going to do next. And I wish you all the best. And again, thank you very much. Hi. Hardesty. I am very grateful for the information that you provided in this report because, quite frankly, I think it really is a roadmap of just how the city of Portland, who benefits and who doesn't benefit in the city of Portland. And it really highlights areas, uh, that I think are critical for our deliberation. I want to apply the work that's been done. I've been pushing back on Kimberly a lot because I think that there's a, uh, a desire to take cannabis dollars and maybe backfill some of the money that we know will disappear. And I'm... not a big fan of actually I'm not a big fan of that approach and so I've been very clear about that because I believe that we have to do so much better with the cannabis dollars that we are collecting and have not invested as we told voters we would. We're going to be having a more deeper conversation next week around the cannabis dollars but today for this particular it is clear to see that that the community has been engaged in a way that I would say has been very deep, very meaningful and very intentional around making sure we're supporting community needs and not necessarily government needs. and really centering those communities that clearly have been left out of the economic prosperity that so many are enjoying in the city of Portland. And so I applaud the work that's been done up to this point. I encourage you to continue to think creatively about how we continue to fund and expand these programs without thinking that there's any one pot of ideal money because there isn't not in the city but but we should continue the conversation about how we invest for the long term I vote aye. You Daly? All the knocking is work going on on the outside of the building they don't they don't pay any attention to what's going on inside. Well I'm a big fan of the neighborhood prosperity network I support all of the goals that you're advancing, especially stabilizing and strengthening existing businesses, which is something I think we haven't historically done such a great job with, as well as increasing the number of jobs and connecting residents to those jobs in many of these communities. people, there are communities where people have been displaced out of the central city and into these neighborhoods where there is certainly less economic opportunity. So that's excellent. I consider this an obligation the city has to mitigate. the impacts of development-driven displacement, which we also haven't done a great job with. I only wish that the council in 2009 had had the foresight to protect renters and communities of color from the wave of gentrification and displacement we were seeing at that time and has only accelerated in the past 10 years. But that's not Prosper Portland's goal. arena and I don't want to rain on your parade. This is great. It's just a moment to reflect on what could have been and and what needs to happen moving forward. I'm happy to support this. I vote aye. Wheeler? Well, first of all, let me just say this. I love this because this is a pragmatic approach to shared economic prosperity. We talk a lot up here about shared economic prosperity, but that doesn't mean anything without specific investments and tangible programs in the community that actually create that shared economic prosperity. So that's the first thing I love about it. The second thing I love about it, Kimberly, is this is visionaries. It really is taking the usual process of economic development strategies and it's completely inverting it and it puts the community first. It centers the community and it actually draws its creativity and its innovation and ultimately its progress from prioritization and decisions that are made at the community level. And that's great for a couple of reasons. Number one, you don't want us telling you what's the most important thing for you in your own neighborhood, in your own community. And number two, we don't have to because we have your expertise to rely on. And now that we're seven years away from that original vision that you all started back in the day, back in the day, it's easy for me to look at this today and say this is a smashing success. We heard some great testimony that validates that, but you didn't know it back in the day that it would be a smashing success. And I think it's become foundational, and I look forward to the next iteration. I look forward to being part of the next iteration. I look forward to working with all of you to secure more sustainable funding and new paths forward. And I believe it's foundational also because I don't think we would have had the Inclusive Business Resource Network or Portland Means Progress or any of these other initiatives if we hadn't laid the foundation with the neighborhood prosperity networks first. And you are all there. You are all part of it. I love being here as mayor of this city where we're actually doing this kind of innovative and pragmatic work. So thank you all for your tremendous work. Tori, you've only improved it since you got here. We love having you on the team as well. And I appreciate everybody who came in and participated today and everybody who testified. It's a lot of fun and it's working. I vote aye. The report is accepted. And we're adjourned. Thank you for that meeting with the attorneys yesterday. That was good morning. Good morning. We're in session. This is the Wednesday, March 4th, 2020 morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning. Carla, please call the roll. Good morning. Fritz. Here. Hardesty. Here. Udailey. Wheeler. Here. Now we'll hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do so with a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated at council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. First up is communications. Carla? Yes. Item 172, request of Cheryl Graves to address council regarding the present state of the city's homeless crisis. She will not be coming. All right, very good. Next is 173, please. Request of Antoine Truss to address council regarding the homelessness epidemic. Is she here? No, sorry. All right, next up is 174. Request of Jan Campbell to address council regarding a tribute to Commissioner Fish. She sends her apologies. She is not feeling well. 175. Request of Daniel Somerville-White to address council regarding a resolution supporting ethnogenic plant practices. Ah, interesting. Can I hear you guys? Wow. Was there something you said? I actually was really interested to hear what that was. I guess I'll have to stay in suspense. 176, please. Request of Sean Green to address council regarding his experience as a member of the Development Review Advisory Committee and the Bureau of Development Services Budget Advisory Committee. Very good. And I know Mr. Green is here. Good morning. It's good to have you here. Thank you. And I do appreciate the fact that there's a number of people who called in and said they thought they might be sick and I appreciate They're they're taking that extra step to protect everybody and we'll make sure we can rotate them back in as they feel better Mr. Green welcome. Thank you for being here. They're gonna distribute my testimony. My name is Sean Green. I own a general contracting business called Aforma and serve as Vice Chair of the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. Over three years ago, Commissioner Udailey's Chief of Staff, Marshall Runkle, urged me to get involved with the Development Review Advisory Committee, also known as DRAC. At this table a year ago during my appointment, I was asked by Commissioner Fritz how well I could serve the neighborhood interest given the fact that I'm also a contractor. My response was that I've been involved in service to my community for most of my life. and much longer than I've been a contractor. Further, the fact that I've had firsthand experience with permitting, inspections, and general contracting process gives me the advantage when discussing a particular topic. The fact that I have a master's of public administration from the Hatfield School of Government doesn't hurt either. I have taken volunteer service to the extreme at BDS, serving on numerous committees, including chairing the Process Improvement and Technology Committee, as a member of the BDS Budget Advisory Committee, the Financial Advisory Committee, and the Demolition Subcommittee. And last month, I volunteered to serve on the newly formed Public Works Committee. I have great pleasure getting to know Better the amazing people who work at BDS. While it's never been perfect, one of the most inspiring aspects of Portland is our history of working together to try to better our city. I'm here in that spirit. The most successful organizations in the world make a commitment to continual improvement and center their work around respect for people. The defensive knee-jerk reactionary response that is prevalent in our world, including many aspects of our city government, is doing our city a great disservice. The fastest way to lose the immense value that is being added through civic engagement and the even greater potential value that could be added through civic engagement is by people getting the feeling that their voice doesn't matter and that the effort they put into making a positive difference will be for nothing. My civic engagement issues are what some might call, most of many civic engagement issues are what some might call wicked problems or problems that do not have a clear and easy solution and are often underpinned by incommensurate values. These are the times when we most need a diverse and thoughtful community to come together. A number of my recent efforts to make our city better have been emotionally taxing and have resulted in official city response or a lack of a response that is hurtful. The way in which each of you, your staff, and the various city bureaus interact with each other in the community matters. Each of you set the standards for our city, and people follow your lead even more than you may realize. I love my city and I respect and honor the commitment each of you have made to serve our community, an often thankless task, and one that I can only imagine is also emotionally taxing. I'm here to support each of you and the work that you do to make our city better. Thank you. Mayor. Commissioner Udaly, then Commissioner Hardesty, then- I have a few questions for Sean Green. Good. Thank you. So since we didn't take testimony last week during the hearing about the demolition rules, we didn't get to hear from all stakeholders and I have a few prepared questions for you. First, as someone who's been deeply involved in the demolition debate, do you believe the inspection protocol as it stands now will work? The demolition subcommittee did some really great work to improve the inspection protocol and to address nearly everyone's concerns. I think at this point, it's best to monitor the new process we have and to make improvements as necessary to achieve our goals. I will say that I wish we had come to this place faster and with less effort. I agree. Do you have any constructive criticism for how we could have caught and addressed the inspection problem sooner? I wish we had a culture that was committed to continual improvement, such that when someone brings up an opportunity for an improvement that is not met with resistance, the most successful organizations seek out problems as part of a commitment to striving for perfection. In general, I could sum up my feelings as, first, if we're going to have a policy, let's follow it. And if we feel like there's aspects about a policy that should be changed, let's change it. And second, always be willing to listen and solicit feedback. You know, I'd be happy to drill into specifics with anyone at another time. Thanks. Do you have any constructive, or sorry, based on your analysis, how many demolitions likely occurred that did not comply with the new rules after they were adopted? Sure. I think if we define during demolition in the common sense way of when the excavator is knocking down a house, that the data that we started collecting at the end of September 2019 shows that we did not often have an inspector on site to see the demolition in progress. And to ensure that the demolition was being conducted in a way that complies with our laws. Given that a correction notice and that violations can only be issued when observed by an inspector, we need to be more critical of program data that uses the number of correction notices and violations as an indication of how well the program is operating. I think most programs would be well served by critically examining the metrics we use to determine success. Okay. So... The primary reason why I worked to develop and pass these demolition regulations is because there is no safe lead exposure in children. I want to, I feel like I was less vocal than I wanted to be last week. It is sometimes hard to criticize city staff from the dais, but I do want to express my deep frustration with how this was handled. I talk about sometimes that bureaus are moving at different geologic speeds than council offices, and it's hard to redirect these giant machines. It's also hard when staff doesn't actually support new rules and regulations or doesn't enforce the letter or the spirit of the rules. So I'm very disappointed that this important... important regulations we put in place to protect children from permanent brain damage was not implemented adequately by the Bureau. Exposure to lead can seriously harm a child's health and cause well-documented adverse effects, such as damage to the brain and nervous system, slowed growth and development, learning and behavior problems, hearing and speech challenges. This can impact cognitive ability. decrease ability to pay attention and of course that can often lead to challenges in school. Childhood lead poisoning is 100% preventable. That was the intent of the regulations and again I'm disappointed that the regulations were not implemented well and I'm very grateful to you Sean and other activists who worked to correct the situation. I think it's important to recognize, and I recognize this, that the people actually implementing the regulations, the folks on the ground doing the inspections, are doing their best to uphold the law and to serve our city well. That particular program, I think, fell into a category where there was some organizational chaos. new to the state division manager brought in who's an amazing person doing great work. You know a new middle manager was brought in to was promoted to work on that program and then the line level manager went from managing one inspector to managing four, and they needed to be trained up on these new regulations. So I recognize, I don't want it to seem as though I'm critical of the staff actually doing this work. But I think when it comes time to review a program, there's ways to do it in a way that are thoughtful and open to positive improvements. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner Udalli, for your questions. First, just want to say, Sean, any community members who volunteer their time to try to make the city better have my deep appreciation. So thank you for your willingness, because many times, of course, these committees operate behind the scenes. And so there's no glory to being a volunteer on a city oversight board. Having said that... I think what I've learned through this process is it is helpful always when we have oversight boards that have a responsibility to work with the bureau that when we hear presentations, we should always hear from the advisory committees as well. Because just like with the stadium, The advisory committee has a very different perspective than the professional folks who come and present in front of us. And so I have a great deal of respect for all the city employees and the hard work that they do. But we can't make good decisions unless we're hearing all sides of the issues. which is why I try to be very intentional about asking very direct questions. And I am troubled that when I ask a direct question and I get an answer that's less than enlightening, that that is not a question. I do not want to reward that kind of behavior, right? I mean, I think we can only make good decisions when we have all the facts in front of us. And so maybe as a council, we need to reconsider how we hear those reports and who we hear from. And so I want to end where I started, which is thank you very much for your willingness to volunteer. And thank you for your courage to actually find avenues to have your voice heard, whether or not they were... appreciated on the committee you served on. So thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for taking the time to come in this morning. It's really helpful to have a kind of follow-up session. I asked you the question last year to put on the record, because I know that some people do have the thought of... I know. Yeah, so you gave a good answer, and I just wanted to say again for the record that you've done an exemplary job of representing a number of different viewpoints, and thank you for your work on the committee. Thank you, Commissioner. Interesting conversation. Appreciate it. Thank you. And I'm glad we were able to dive a little deeper since nobody else was able to come for communications today. I obviously missed something really interesting last week. Sorry about that. Thank you for coming. Thank you. Yeah, appreciate it. Thank you for your service. and no retaliation. So next up, let's see, well, actually the consent agenda. We have a consent agenda this week. That's new and exciting. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? We've had no requests. Very good. Please call the roll on the consent agenda. Fritz? My mother says thank you very much for excusing my absence for the past two weeks. She had a wonderful 90th birthday. Aye. Hardesty. Yee-Dee Lee.
 Aye.
 Wheeler. We're glad to have you back Commissioner. I vote aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item please is number 177 please. amend the fiscal year 2019-20 budget and authorize construction financing in an amount not to exceed $2,177,000 to DePaul Treatment Centers or affiliate to construct a new treatment facility at Southeast 102nd Avenue and Southeast Cherry Blossom Drive. Very good. Good morning, everyone. In the fall bump, as you'll recall, Council allocated general fund dollars to the DePaul Treatment Center to help increase the capacity of the treatment beds in our community. This new development, which you'll hear about shortly, will ensure new opportunity for those with addictions to receive both residential and day treatment programming. And our contribution, which now includes additional resources from the Portland Housing Bureau, will ensure that a portion of those beds will be affordable. I want to thank the DePaul Treatment Center, Girding-Eidland, and the Gateway community for their incredible vision related to this project. I'll now turn it over to Director Callahan, who's not here, so I'm turning it over to you guys, and you'll sort it out for me. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner. I'm Molly Rogers, the Deputy Director of the Portland Housing Bureau. I'm here standing in for Shannon Callahan, who will be here today. I am delighted to introduce Marie Wacker, who is the CEO of DePaul Treatment Centers. And Carly Harrison, who is Development Manager at Gurdian England. They're the development consultants working on the project. Great. Marie, Carly, thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Just with this is a rendering of what the new facility is going to look like on 102nd and Southeast Cherry Avenue. There will be a total of 70 adult treatment beds provided in this new facility. 24 of them will be medically withdrawal management beds. And additionally, we'll be paired with an 80-person day treatment facility that is expecting to serve almost 1,000 outpatient clinics a year. This is a rendering of the courtyard view, which includes community gardens and beautiful residential and outdoor community spaces that is meant to be a healing place. We have many partners and we're leveraging many resources in this project. PHB's resources will support 10 of the 70 treatment beds. Those will be regulated to be affordable for households earning less than 60% of area median income. And those will be regulated for a period of 60 years. where that $2.2 million is leveraging about another $27 million of other resources, mostly from DePaul treatment centers, as well as new market tax credits, other private leveraging, and other private donations to make the project work. And I'm just going to turn it over to, actually, I believe Carly. Sure. Oh, and Marie, if you want to share anything about the type of folks who are coming into the treatment center, what are they experiencing, any of the demographics, you can share the services. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. You can feel free to move that closer if it's more comfortable. So first of all, I want to express our deep appreciation for the city's support in making this project happen. We simply could not do it without all of you and in particular the mayor's office. Kristen Dennis and other members of that team and Director Callahan and her team as well. We are expecting to serve over 5,000 people for addiction treatment, co-occurring mental health services. The majority of our individuals have an alcohol addiction, about 50%, another 40% opioid use, and the meth piece of the business is definitely increasing in terms of people's addiction, which is unfortunate given its potential long-term impacts on their physical health. and their mental health. About one-third of our patients are homeless when they come to us, and everyone who graduates and completes the program, we make sure they have a place to go to when they leave as well as we've offered obtaining a job in those kinds of other skills as well. And about almost a third, about 28%, of our patients come from communities of color. So we are very excited to bring this project to the community. In addition to the treatment services, we will have a new endeavor which is about community education. So we really have plans to offer speaker series, small community gatherings on a bi-monthly basis on different topic areas in addiction and prevention. And we hope to provide a greater community resource that will help educate and reduce the stigma related to this disease. Commissioner Fritz then Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you for being here. Is it for men and women? Absolutely. Yes. Thank you. And I'm assuming the demographics are going to change radically based on the community that you are moving into. And so I'm curious about how staffing is going to reflect the needs of this very diverse community that speaks about 52 languages and... which is a lot different from your former location. And let me just say, I am thrilled. This is my neighborhood. I am so thrilled. I can't wait. We desperately need this in East Portland. But I am concerned that without staffing that really reflects the community you're now going to serve, that we may not be as effective as we need to be. I thank you for your question. Currently today about a little over one-third of our staff are from communities of color. We have several other than English speakers on our staff, but I would wholeheartedly concur that the opportunity to build even deeper resources in those areas is something that this organization will be and is focusing on. And you said that you, people who successfully complete your program have housing at the end. Yes. Is this housing that's, housing that they can afford, permanently afford to live in? Or is this housing that they're still going to be housing insecure a month later? I don't know that I can fully answer that question. I can tell you that we are in the position lots of times that we are paying first month's rent. in order to stabilize them. And they have had an opportunity about 30 days before they graduate to work and save. Most of the housing is Oxford housing. We have other partnerships with Central City Concern, Bridges to Change, and other entities that provide housing services. No, we had Oxford Housing in Portland. We have a lot. Do we have a lot? Yeah, we do. Oh, we've got to talk. I've got to learn more about what's in my own community. Thank you. Are there any other questions? I have some broad questions, and these are entirely unfair questions, and you may not have the answers. But I spend a good portion of my day and my evenings talking about addiction. And as you indicated, this is predominantly focused on alcohol addiction, substance abuse. But as I'm sure you're keenly aware, we're seeing more drug addiction in our community. We're seeing more of our houseless population becoming addicted to meth and other substances. And there are times when it feels that our system is being overwhelmed. If you were Zarina... What advice would you give us as we, amongst other communities up and down the West Coast, are struggling with this increased preponderance of substance abuse and addiction? Where do we start in terms of getting our arms around this issue? The first things I would offer are that we need to embed addiction treatment services, peer mentors, and others like that inside of those organizations serving that population. Okay. We know, as you suggest, that many of these individuals are facing the disease and we can make a great deal of effort by making it easy for people to access services and understand and not be afraid to get help that they need. So that would be one. I think in the schools as well. We have the resources right now to provide only one counselor in Benson High School and at the same time we believe that person has way more work and kids wanting help than she can help. Oftentimes they want help without their parents' knowledge, so insurance cannot be accessed to pay for it. So the more resources we can provide to helping kids in schools who are definitely seeking that help, I think is a good resource as well. And when people come to you, they are not exclusively addicted to alcohol. Some also have other substance abuse issues. Absolutely. And what is your success in treating people who have other substance abuse issues other than alcohol? I do not know that statistic in particular. Our overall completion rates exceed national averages. The national average is about 47%, and we usually hit around 55%, 52% in terms of completion rates. But I can provide that information. Has your demographic shifted at all in recent years, or has it remained relatively stable? How has it changed, if it hasn't? What we are finding is that individuals have much more severe mental health needs. And so it is no longer a usual or typical patient that only has an addiction issue. About 75% of our patients have a co-occurring mental health disorder. We are seeing an increase in the SPMI population. I'm sorry, which population? I'm sorry, seriously and persistently mentally ill. Okay, thank you. And those individuals are seeking treatment, which has caused us to increase our programming for people who have an acute either mental health or physical health disorder. need because those are the individuals that are going to hospital emergency departments for care and we can provide a much more cost-effective to help those individuals. And what's even cooler about that is those individuals who typically would just keep returning to the emergency department are graduating treatment currently at a higher rate than individuals who are not coming out of hospital emergency departments. Thank you. Now I'm going to ask you the ultimate unfair question, but it was a question asked of me over breakfast this morning. And I gave my answer, but I'm curious to know what your answer to the question would be. The gentleman asked me why it seems that there's an increasing prevalence of mental health issues in our community. What is driving it? Do you have a sense? I have several theories, but I couldn't say for sure now. Thank you. I think Commissioner Fritz, if I might comment on that. I think people are now talking about it, whereas before it was definitely something you didn't talk about and you didn't admit, you didn't ask for help. And then even if you did, you can't get it. So I really appreciate the work that you're doing. I did have a follow up question, but it's completely gone out of my head. Oh yes, you're still fundraising for this project? We are. We are trying to identify an additional $1.4 million. And if somebody is watching this television show and wanting to donate, how would they do that? Please contact me, Marie Wacker, at DePaul Treatment Centers. And what's the website? It is depaultc.org. Thank you very much. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. I had a question about alcohol detoxification. I think over the years we've learned some lessons about what you do when someone is suffering from alcohol poisoning. Can you tell us what the current best practices are when you are trying to detox someone who is overexposed to alcohol? Well, I would tell you that detoxing from alcohol can be and often is life-threatening. We provide detoxification with medication so that the effects of the withdrawal from the substance are not as severe. the other thing would be that we can observe them and you know lots of times there's DTs which are yes thank you I have a hard time even saying it so they have so the best practice is really to get them into a medical treatment facility that can offer those really important transitional drugs Thank you for that because I asked you that question very selfishly because I know Central City Concern has stopped their Hooper contract. And they did it very intentionally because they also have learned over 30 years that just putting somebody in a cell to detox them was not... best practices that we've garnered over the last 30 years. And so I'm appreciative to understand that there has to be a medical component to detoxification and it should not be just assuming that somebody will sleep it off, right? And then somehow be quote unquote normal when that's over. That's correct. Thank you so much. I appreciate that being on the record. Very good. Thank you. This has been a good conversation. We appreciate the work you're doing. We'll hear from public testimony now. We have three people signed up. Oh, wait. Did you have anything you wanted to add? No, I'm Carly Harrison. I work with Jill Sherman at Girding Edlin. And we've been partnered with DePaul and Marie here for the last several years helping them. And we're just really grateful to be here today and get to talk. get to have ground breaking soon. It always takes a village to pull these kinds of high community impact projects, notably on the financing side, but really all the partners involved. So thank you to Mayor Wheeler and the commission. Yeah, so thank you. So Carly, you're in charge of the development of the project. Is that correct? Yes. Along with Jill, of course. And you represent an entire team. The schematics are stunning. And if you know the facility that DePaul is currently in, the facility is amazing in and of its own right. But when you compare it to the status quo, it's actually spectacular. And I want to thank you for working with this great team and really putting something forward that not only beats the adequacy test, it really is something to be proud of. It's really phenomenal, and I think it's going to be a great vision for the future. It sets the bar very, very high. So thank you for that. Thank you. That was our aim. Very good. Thank you. And I'm sorry. Do we hear when groundbreaking is anticipated? April 23rd. April 23rd. We should have an invitation. If not, it'll be there shortly. I haven't had it yet, but I'm looking forward to it. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Since it's in my hood. Appreciate it. Now we'll hear from public. You cool your heels for a while and we'll hear some public testimony. And I'm sorry, Carla, who do we have? We have Shedrick Wilkins, Lightning, and Maggie. Very good. Come on up. I'm Shedrick Wilkins. I like beer too much and I consider myself an expert on this topic. Number one is when I was homeless for a year in 2011 and 2012, when I went to city team ministries, if they breathalyze you and you have alcohol, you're out on the street. And I really don't want to freeze in the cold weather and be drunk. Yeah. Another thing too was at Bud Clark Commons as well. I spent six months there. If I drank, I'm out on the street. And plus I would lose my spot at the Bud Clark Commons. Okay. Number two is when I was studying at PSU University, I had to get drinking down to one day a week. I get to take four classes at the same time. Alcohol works two ways. It stops you from worrying about things, but I have to worry about a test, right, and study it. Okay, that's the thing. Also, people think that alcohol makes them more creative. I'm not too sure about that. I really think it's once a week is pretty good. And another thing is to... My son's 24 and I took him on the submarine at OMSI. He didn't ask one question. My son's 24, I'm 62. You can't drink on the submarine. So the Navy knows this. You don't want a bar fight in the submarine, but they did smoke a lot. They smoked a lot on the submarine, but they never drank. And so the Navy knows this that you don't want bar fights on a submarine or you don't want a drunk crew or something having a party and they're attacked. So talk to the Navy. And Nothing good about beer though, it has fluoride in it. If it's blue in Wisconsin, but anyway, and it's also an antiseptic. Yes, it has fluoride. All beer from Wisconsin has fluoride in it, but Oregon's not. But another thing is, don't tell a dental hygienist that too. They don't want to hear how kids should drink beer so they won't have cavities. Another thing too, I respect the DePaul trucks. Now, I work for Target, and the DePaul trucks took food from our Target store to the food bank, as I recall. So DePaulists have trucks, and they provide that as transportation to the food bank, which is near the airport, the central processing area. Thanks, Shutter. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Karma. I think the project is very good, very positive. Gurdine and Edlund are a class act. Anything they're involved with, to my opinion, will be exceptional. And as you can see by the layout and everything you see on this, it is going in that direction. My biggest concern is what the speakers mentioned is on the increase in meth use and the potency increase. And again, I'm hoping that we're going to start making comments on where the most meth is coming from and understand that you need to talk about that to prevent that from happening and the potency that we're seeing. And as you know, in some of these centers, the main concern is on the violence in the centers and how you're going to deal with that. And as you know, at the emergency room hospitals, when they were – People were seeking help and they had the police called on them, arrested, taken down to the jail and then transported to the state mental hospital. To me, that was absolutely appalling. But what we're beginning to see is more type of community type oriented centers. which I think falls back to the settlement agreement. And it is very positive again on the supportive housing measure will fit into that game also. Again, we need to still focus on more supportive housing being constructed as Commissioner Hardesty stated. Are they going to go into supportive housing? Are they going to be able to stay in supportive housing and not just keep circling through different centers? So again, like I say on this project, very positive. I like what I see. I'll be watching it very close. And again, if that measure does pass, a lot of that money, I assume, can be directed toward these type of centers in the future and housing. And again, that measure is a $250 million ongoing sustainable money, which we've never seen before. Even on the affordable housing bond, that's not an ongoing sustainable income stream. So again, on the mental health side and the addiction services... We should see in the next six months to a year some amazing things happening, which is beneficial for the people and for their recovery and for them sustaining a life in which they can live in a housing unit supported and maintain that housing. And that's the key is to maintain that housing because these centers are less effective unless they can get into that housing and stay there. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. Maggie Portman, Homeless Town Hall. You know, different types of populations become addicted for different reasons. You've got athletes. You've got senior citizens who get hip and knee replacements. You have college students. You've got... The mentally ill, you know, there's plenty of mentally ill people who are not addicted to drugs who don't take drugs. There's a variety of reasons, but in all the reasons of addiction, you know, we call these centers, these drug treatment centers in St. Vincent de Paul, you know what we call their motto? We're here for you until the money runs out. And they cycle them on and off the street. Okay, so that's what we refer to St. Vincent de Paul treatment centers. So the insurance runs out. They end up back on the street. They go back to doing drugs. They go back in. They get treated. The insurance runs out. They go back on the street. So this is going to be no different. They're just building another treatment center and doing things the same old way they did it before. So as Lightning says, if you do not have the permanent supportive housing component, then, you know, you're not doing any things different. OK, so. As far as permanent supportive housing, it's like you can look at the different populations and ask yourself or the medical community what kind of supportive housing do they need. Obviously, somebody who is severely schizophrenic needs a certain type of supportive housing. Somebody who's maybe bipolar. needs a certain type, you know, you've got to tailor the services to what is going to help them function. And the way to do that is to ask them. And, you know, I meet people out on the streets who are schizophrenic or bipolar who have left SRO housing because it was so horrible. You cannot provide housing that is so horrible, like shelters and SROs. These people will leave and they will go back out and sleep on the street. Okay, I meet schizophrenics on the max who spend their money in hotels and when their money runs out they go Take the max out to the end of the line and sleep on the street because they cannot be in a shelter They're too, you know, it's too stressful So, you know the anxiety anxiety is at the bottom of this, you know for them not you know as as as this gentleman said, you know to staying and functional. Yeah, Maggie, if I could reflect on that, because you make some really good points here. And first of all, I think we have to acknowledge that the Paul Treatment Center is one part of the continuum of care. And you're challenging us to go beyond just the treatment piece and talk about where do people go after their treatment. done with the treatment piece? Where is the housing? Where is the supportive housing? Right. How do we ensure that they don't just come back onto the streets or fall back into a cycle of addiction? Mm-hmm. And if there's one thing that gives me hope about our ability to address the homeless crisis, particularly as it relates to the most chronically homeless, those who've been homeless the longest, those who have coexisting conditions, whether it's addiction or mental health or disabilities, or whatever, it is the system-wide commitment we're starting to see around answering your question, what's next? What happens once somebody comes in? Where do they go next? How do we ensure that two, three, four, five years from now, they're successful where they are? And I don't see that so much being the responsibility of the DePaul's of the world. I see that being more our responsibility with the county and our other service provider partners to put the system together. Exactly. And to be honest, the system has been hellishly fragmented for a long, long time. But I'm starting to see the right leadership in the right place, the right partnerships, the right collaborations, and an understanding that this is a system. And if there's any piece of the system that's not holding up its weight, the rest of the system collapses under that weight. And so what you expressed is something I'm spending a lot of time thinking about. And I really appreciate your raising it. Okay, I appreciate that you're thinking about these things. I'm assessing about it more than that. Okay, because it's a dog pile and I'm looking at the comments of all the people who are running and I'm just going, you flunk, you flunk, you flunk, you flunk. You didn't get it. You're not getting it. You know, it's got to be these components. Okay, thank you. Thank you for your perspective. We appreciate it. Okay. Very good. So unless there's anything else, this is an emergency ordinance. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Well, picking up on what Maggie just said, now really you get it. And you've been working really hard on this for three years and have looked at the whole system in partnership with Commissioner Sharon Myron at Multnomah County, new leadership there. I, in the first time in 12 years, am hopeful that we are starting to get more of a system with fewer gaps. Still, obviously, it's not because we live in the United States where we don't have a system with no gaps and we don't get federal funding. But this is a huge part of the problem, the solution. Thank you very much to DePaul for your leadership in this. I'm delighted that it's going in East Portland. East Portland deserves nice places and nice facilities and nice services, good services and good jobs. And so I hope that as you move forward to opening this centre, expanding your staff, that you will be looking to local hiring, that Gertie Edelman will be looking at using local sources to, and not just staples as we found, you know. There's some real great local businesses in East Portland who could... contribute to services to get this facility constructed. It's really ideal. My parents and I live at Cherrywood Village, which is just a bit further down Cherry Blossom Drive. And so the location where you are, right next to Portland Adventist Hospital, where in the beginning of January I got really great care, and I would recommend it to anyone. That's close by. The East Portland Community Center is close by. I hope that your clients will be encouraged to go avail themselves of the community center services. Alcohol treatment is not... Mae'n ddim yn cael ei gynnal gan ymgyrchu yn yr un ffordd, yn enwedig pan mae'n cyd-dweud yw'n cyd-dweud â gofal iechyd menthol. Ac mae wedi bod yn ddiddorol ers i mi fod wedi bod yn gweithio mewn gofal iechyd yn Oregon ers 1986. Mae wedi bod yn her i ddod o hyd i'r ymgyrchu a'r ffordd i wneud hynny yn y dyfodol ac mae hynny'n ddiddorol i'r Mae'n rhan mor bwysig o'r holl system hwn. Rwy'n gwybod bod Comisiynydd Fish yn hapus i wrando ar hyn o ran y llaw, gan gwybod bod hwn yn rhan i gael cymorth parhaus ar gyfer cymorth parhaus, ac mae'r cymorth parhaus ar gyfer cymorth parhaus yn mynd i fod yno hefyd. Felly, fel y dywedodd, mae'r cyd-dreul yn cael ei gilydd. Felly diolch i chi, Mare Wheeler, nid oedd hi'n hawdd o gwbl i gael y cyd-dreul yn gyd-dreul. A chi a'ch staff wedi bod yn ddiddorol iawn a hefyd yn gyfrifol yn ffisgol, yn gweithio gyda Cyfarwyddwr Callaghan, staff Cymru, a'r Deyrnas O'r Oren, diolch i'r Cynllun MacDonald MacDonald i wneud y prosiect hon yn realiti hefyd. Ac fel y dywedodd, mae yna ffynniad o miliwn o dolar, felly gwnewch edrych yn ymlaen yn ystod hyn. oherwydd mae'n i bawb. Nid yn unig i bobl sydd heb ymdrin, mae'n i bawb. Felly byddai'n ffaciliaeth ffabwyl iawn sydd yn cael ei wneud yn ddefnyddiol iawn ac yn dda iawn. Rwy hefyd eisiau ychwanegu fy nghymorth i'r Prif Weinidog Willow pan es i yma gyntaf, roeddem yn cael sgyrsiau am y fision hwn ar gyfer ganolfan trafod De Paul yng Nghymru a'r Gwladau. Ac ar ôl gweld y lluniau, rwy'n ymddygiadol. Mae pawb yn derbyn lle gwych. Ie, i bawb. Felly rwy'n ddiolchol am y cwmniad cyfarfodol oherwydd dyna un o'r pethau rydyn ni'n ei angen yn Portland Ynys yw lle i aelodau cymunedol sy'n hyfryd, sydd nid yn y basment eglwys, heb ymddygiad â'r basment eglwys, ond rhywbeth sy'n gallu dod â'r sun i mewn. Mae hyn yn rhan bwysig o'r hyn rydyn ni angen ei wneud i sicrhau ein bod yn diogelio pobl mwyaf yn fwysig. Rwyf hefyd eisiau bod yn glir, nid yw 70 o'r beddau yn llwyddo ein problem o ddim o beddau iechyd mewn y ddinas o'r Portlawn. Nid yw'n debyg i gael ei llwyddo, ond mae'n un peth o'r ateb hwn. Ac mae fy ngwlad yn mynd i'r Cynllun Iechyd De Paul i ddeall bod Cymru'n ei angen ar gyfer sefydliad fel hyn. Ac fel y dywedodd Pryd, mae'n lleol. Mae'n wyneb, wyneb, wyneb i'r cymuned. I also want to give a shout out to the financier, which I always call magic workers, because as someone who serves on the board of a nonprofit that provides very low-income housing for families, I know what it takes to put these projects together. And most of the time, there's a lot of prayer involved and a lot of sleepless nights. And just not knowing until the bitter end whether or not all the dots are going to come together. So I applaud the creativity that goes into moving this project forward. Look forward to being at the groundbreaking. I am very happy to vote aye. Thank you, Daly. Well, I want to express my appreciation for the critical work that DePaul Treatment Center does. And since we're making plugs and soapboxing this morning, I guess I'll just put in my plug for supporting and encouraging our regional partners and our state to meaningfully invest in homeless and housing services. One of the reasons we're seeing an increase in people with mental health issues and homelessness is that Portland and Multnomah County is the de facto service provider for the region, and we really need our neighbors to be able to serve their own community members so people can stay in their communities where they have the best chance of recovering and getting back on their feet, and so that we can... begin to turn the tide on this really urgent matter. I've lost three family members to alcohol addiction and abuse. I feel incredibly fortunate to not face that challenge myself, but I know how vital it is, and I'm happy to support this. I vote aye. Wheeler? Well, this is a big step forward. I remember when Just a few short years ago, we were pondering whether or not DePaul Treatment Center would actually continue to exist in our community. And the thought of losing all of these treatment beds at a time when the demand is growing seemed unfathomable. And I really appreciate, Marie, the work you've put into this, the work your board has put into this, and the other advocates who have been relentless. In trying to move this vision forward, it's been great. And like lightning, I'm really pleased that is engaged in this project because they do exceptional work in the community. And frankly, they're noted globally now. We want them to do more work right here in Portland, Oregon. So I'm glad to see them engaged in this way. And the Housing Bureau, I want to thank everybody for their hard work as well. The city was often pushing on this model because it was very important to us that if we were going to put public dollars into this model, then there had to be a benefit to lower income people to gain access to these same services. And so just to reiterate, the money that the city of Portland is putting into this project goes to the 10 beds that will be regulated at 60% MFI. for a period of 60 years. Our contribution is actually a relatively small portion of the overall contribution to this project, but I think it's a very important contribution because it opens up access for people who might not otherwise have access to these treatment opportunities. This is a great vision. I'm glad that the City of Portland was able to play a role. It's no surprise to anybody that this one is very personal to me. My father spent many years affiliated with the DePaul Treatment Centers. He'd be very proud of this vision. I vote aye. Thank you. The ordinance is approved. Good luck. As we like to say at this phase, congratulations, your ordinance is passed. Don't screw it up. Commissioner Fritz used to say that. No. No. I was like, can we say that? Thank you. Carla, next item is... Time certain, 1-78. If you could read that, please. 10-15. Yeah, we're good. Appeal of the Portland Japanese Garden against the hearing officer's decision of approval with conditions limiting the garden's office use in the house at 369 Southwest Kingston Avenue, two, four years, LU-1919-2268CU. Colleagues, we return to vote on the revised findings and decision for the Portland Japanese Garden. These updated findings reflect our tentative decision to uphold the appeal. Is there any further discussion? Thank you. Do I have a motion to uphold the appeal, revise the hearings officer's decision to approve the conditional use review, and allow for the requested 10 years and adopt the findings? So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Udeli seconds. Carla, can you please call the roll for a final vote? Fritz. I very much appreciate the city attorney's office for their understanding. careful writing of the findings, in particular the conclusion that although the opponents argued that the approval criteria were not met because of the use of a Kingston House of an office created livability impacts in violation of the approval criteria, the City Council does not find the arguments or evidence in that regard persuasive. And it's really important to remember that in quasi-judicial proceedings where we are acting as judges of have the rules been followed, have the rules not been followed, It's only the approval criteria which can make a difference in our decision. So the approval criteria can be met with the conditions that are now in the report, and I am happy to support this. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. I believe the hearings officer was very clear there were very specific rules that we that were supposed to be abided by. The party actually didn't do anything to actually change the outcome of them not moving in that time period. And I cannot in good conscience reward people who didn't play by the rules. There was a reason why they were given a 10-year limit. And because they did absolutely nothing to actually change the outcome, I will be still a no vote. I vote no. You, Daly? Well, the Portland Japanese Gardens is one of the gems of our city. It was not determined that the use of this house contributes in any way to the various livability issues brought forward by the neighborhood. I would support this item if we were making it permanent, and I'm happy to vote aye. Wheeler. So just to remind people, my preference was to go with the compromise brought forward by city staff. There were not sufficient votes to uphold that compromise. I hope that the Japanese Garden works with community members to help ensure that no future council needs to take this item up again. I vote aye. The motion carries. Next item, 179, please. approve revisions to the human resources administrative rules related to workplace harassment, discrimination, and retaliation, recruitment, employment of retirees, inclement weather, compensation, performance management, and prohibited conduct. Colleagues, this ordinance amends and clarifies the city's human resources administrative rules to reflect changes in both state and federal law and to make some other housekeeping changes to clarify policies and rules for our city's employees. The human resources administrative rules ensure that the city is upholding the highest ethical standards, acting as an employer of choice, and serving in the best interests of our community. This is an emergency item, and it is so to avoid continued conflict with State of Oregon legislative changes that came into effect on January 1st of this year. Revisions to the administrative rules will be retroactive, therefore, to January 1st. I've been informed that there is a need to introduce an amendment. I'm proposing an amendment, therefore, to the ordinance to remove from consideration changes to H.R.A.R. 2.02 due to ongoing bargaining, which is taking place with our labor unions. Thank you. If the amendment is adopted, then we can direct the Bureau of Human Resources to come back to council when they are ready to request the changes to H.R.A.R. 2.02. And Director of HR, Kathy Bless, is here, and she'll tee up this amendment and answer any further questions that people may have. Absolutely, and good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, Kathy Bless, Director of HR. We had some ongoing conversations with our union partners related to the definitions of HRAR 2.02, which is really outside of the legislative changes that are mandated. And so in really an abundance of caution and to be collaborative with our union partners, The HRAR 2.02, and then, of course, we will bring it back when it's ready to be adopted. So I would very much like support in amending the ordinance that eliminates 2.02. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty. We have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on the amendment, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's on the table. Great. So, as a background, over the last year, BHR has received feedback from employees on the HR administrative rules. In November, BHR sent out a solicitation to email to all employees and labor unions for feedback on the rules. We also created an HRAR rules revision page so that employees had a central place to look for all of the documentation. We received over 100 comments from employees and labor unions. We distributed a second draft in December of 2019. Did a notice and comment period that started on December 11th and went through January 6th. We had several informational meetings to discuss proposed changes with employees. The proposed revisions then were finalized February and the result is this ordinance. And then as a follow-up to this process, comprehensive training on the new rules will occur this spring for managers and supervisors. The changes and clarifications really are as follows. Under Rule 3.01, Recruitment Process, it expands equitable recruitment processes to include competitive recruitment and limited competitive recruitments. This expansion applies to at-will positions and already includes regular, temporary, casual, and limited-duration employees. Thank you. Amendment to the rule 3.06, employment of retirees is required due to changes in the state of Oregon around PERS. Revisions are necessary to rule 4.01, drug and alcohol use prohibitions, to clarify the definition of drugs to not include CBD products, which are federally legal. To minimize upfront budget impacts with inclement weather incidents, rule 4.11 modifies how these incidents are paid. The rule provides eligible employees deferred holiday hours equal to the number of hours the employee was regularly scheduled to work. On the day of the event, instead of a regular pay for time not worked. Rule 8.02, hours of work and overtime compensation for FLSA covered employees. This clarifies that due to the unique nature of these operations, emergency communication supervisors employed at BOAC and serving on a 24-hour shift shall be eligible for overtime based on all hours paid over 40 in a work week, excluding paid sick leave. Work schedule changes are also expanded in Rule 8.02, not to include that overtime compensation under this section is not applicable to the short-term schedule modifications such as work schedule changes made in response to an inclement weather event unless otherwise required by law. Modifications to Rule 8.03, hours of work, are necessary to address other exceptions in rare circumstances. The provisions in Rule 8.04, Compensation, eliminates verbiage no longer applicable to the Bureau Director Contracts. Revision rule to 9.02, performance management establishes clear priorities, support frequent and meaningful feedback, and ensures equitable assessments and individual performance. This revision aligns with the process and goals of the city's performance management system success factors. And finally, amendments necessary to rule 11.02, prohibited contact, Conduct are generally required to clarify and expand on examples of prohibited conduct for city employees. This expansion was approved in 2019 under Resolution 37413 to replace Rule 4.05, outside employment and volunteer activities. So that is just a cleanup. I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have and now request council to authorize BHR to make and implement the proposed changes as I have described. Thanks, Director Blass. Commissioner Hardest, he has a question. Absolutely. Thank you, Director. My question has to do with the overtime rule as it relates to employees who work a 24 hour shift. So that provision was added for the emergency communications supervisors. It was at the request of the BOEC leadership to provide overtime on paid leave, excluding sick time, because their supervisors are regularly forced to work beyond their normal schedules due to their 24-7 operations. Currently, if a supervisor takes vacation earlier in the week and then is forced to cover four hours for a peer who calls in sick, they don't get any sort of premium. This makes the leap from a 911 operator to a supervisor even less appealing than it already is for dispatchers. I appreciate that. And dispatching, I was more thinking fire. Yeah. which always works a 24-hour shift. And so I just want to make sure that we're not exacerbating inequities in our systems when we talk about putting a rule in place that impacts all employees. I just want to make sure that we've considered what happens to employees who work 24 hours. I want to make sure that they're not unduly impacted by this rule change. Most of the time it ends up costing me a lot more money than I anticipated, so I just want to be really clear of what this really means for us. Can you? Absolutely. So the rule itself is unique to the emergency communications supervisor classification. It would not expand beyond outside of 911. Okay. But I would suspect that others, as we do negotiations, will be looking for expansion of that rule. So I just want to make sure that We would not forward that interest. Absolutely. I see that we have legal counsel who is very well enabled to assist us in this effort. Absolutely. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Commissioner Hardesty, this will previously have. Do you identify yourself? Oh, sorry. Heidi Brown from the City Attorney's Office. My apologies. My apologies. This rule previously had included certain supervisors under certain circumstances where they would get overtime, and it didn't cause a big issue at that time. That got changed in hopes of being more uniform with the application of it, and then I think in this instance the realization by BOAC was that that was creating this, you know, and unfair. Well, the compensation wasn't enough to entice people to want to move up to the supervisory level, but it was previously in place, so I would be hopeful that it won't have the consequence that you're worrying about. Thank you. I'm just always concerned that we don't normally, when we're thinking about making minor changes, we don't sometimes think about what the impact are on our 24-hour shift workers. So thank you. Appreciate that. Thank you. Commissioner Daly. Thank you. I have a few questions. So employees are expected to talk to report instances of, harassment, discrimination, and retaliation regardless of its origin. So would that include harassment, discrimination, and retaliation from members of the public? So that is the rule that was pulled. Oh, okay. 2.02. And so... Still working. Yeah, still working on all of those pieces. Okay, sorry I missed that detail. The reason I ask is because I'm hearing from many city employees that they are experiencing an increase in harassment in particular, internally and from members of the public, and that members of the public are finding creative ways to, harass and bother employees that are women, but the conduct couldn't necessarily be construed as sexual harassment because, for instance, they're making an animal noise at only women that work with the public in a space open to the public. How are we going to address things like that? Oh, sure. So, the human resource administrative rules are conduct rules for employees and how we treat each other. How the public treats a city employee is really outside of the scope of what the HRARs are intended to provide. I do think it's an incredibly important issue, and I'll let Heidi speak a little bit on kind of the public interactions. I also think it's an important issue, and I guess I need to know where those rules and regulations live. Is that more of a state-level issue? Yeah, Commissioner Hardesty. Excuse me, Commissioner Udaly. Sorry. Just talking to you and got that in my brain. It's normally you. Okay. We do want to ensure that our employees have a safe and protective workplace. And we have had instances with other commissioner offices that we've worked with to help when they've had folks who have been subjected to discriminatory treatment. Um, What you described, whether it's sexual harassment or it's harassment based on gender, all those things are prohibited under state law. We would want to at least work with all of our employees in an effort to protect them from discriminatory and harassing treatment, whether it's from colleagues, which the administrative role covers, or from citizens. So if you're hearing of instances like that, certainly if we could have the employee or the manager or somebody let BHR know and then they would work with our office to try to be creative in figuring out ways to help protect that employee. Okay. My next question is about the language about off-duty conduct that creates a disrespectful work environment. That's it. That's been put... Yeah, we are still working on that. That's part of the language that the union and our office is working on. Oh, okay. And for sure, Fritz's office had raised with us as well. Well, I just want to also raise my concerns about that because we have at least a couple well-publicized instances of that kind of behavior without seeming to be able to do anything about it. So I'd like to know more about that. And then my final question is... Could you briefly describe how the upcoming changes to HR 2.02 are stronger than the current rules? That, that, that The main gist of the changes that we were making were because there's a new law, the Workplace Fairness Act, that is going into effect in October. Well, there's one part that went into effect last October, but that just has to do with the statute of limitations and expanding it. But the bulk of it, which has to do with how we need to interact with employees when we receive a complaint that falls under 2.02. the bulk of that takes effect this coming October. So the rule was looked at to address that. And then while we were in there, I think there was an interest between BHR and our office in trying to address clarify issues, not so much to change it because I think it still comports with what we understood was the interest as far as protecting employees from discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. So the intent wasn't to actually change the rule, but rather to better explain it and have people really have something within the rule in addition to our 2.02 training that we provide that would help people understand what conduct we really are looking at. Okay. I just would like to be kept informed moving forward because I am really concerned about this issue of employees being harassed by members of the public. And if they're getting creative about the harassment, then we need to get creative about our response. And Commissioner, I would be happy to talk to you with... director-less about this and learn who's being subjected to it and then talk to their managers about ways that we can help protect people from that because we don't want that to happen. Some of it we can't control, but to the extent that we can provide support and protections for them, absolutely, we really want to do that because we don't want people subjected to that. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. We'll now hear public testimony on this item. Carla, any public testimony? Yes, we have three people signed up. Excellent. Lightning, Maggie, and Shedrick. Come on up. Should we dice up the order this time? Maggie, you want to start first this time? Sure. Thank you. Appreciate it. Okay. So years and years and years ago, many years ago, back in college, I actually used to be a phone operator, and I had – the wonderful opportunity to break protocol. And we had one of our accounts was one of those guys who flies the helicopters, or the company that flies the helicopters to put out forest fires. And so... Normally we're supposed to page them, but it was the middle of the night and this guy called me. And it was obvious that life and limb weren't danger. So I called this guy at home and woke him up. And I was not supposed to do that, but I did. And because I called him at home, this guy who called me did not lose his house. Yes. because the flames were licking at his house. And if I did not call the helicopter guy at home, he would have stayed in bed for God knows how many minutes. So it's very important what 911 does. They save life and limb. So I would say, you know, if anybody, regardless of an employee or a family member or public, is harassing someone and getting away in the job of somebody whose, you know, job it is to save people, I would say that's taken very seriously. If they're off duty and it's something personal that has nothing to do with their job, wouldn't they just go through the normal protocol of, you know, whatever authority you would contact depending, you know, is it bullying? Is it, you know, online bullying? Wouldn't they just, you know, contact the police like anybody else? I mean, you know, we don't have a monarchy. It's not like a king. You're not working for the king. So I'm happy to answer that for you Maggie. We do have a code of conduct that we expect from city employees. Right? That every city employee receives when they're hired and and there's no exceptions to the code of conduct, whether you're elected or whether you are hired at a front desk. Okay, so this is if the city employee is responsible for the offending behavior. Okay. This is all about the city. Oh, okay. It's not a public debt. Yeah, you know, I mean, I would say to any city employee, definitely you want to, you know, hold yourself up to the highest level because you're a role model for everyone, for the public. So think about that every day. You're a role model for the public. So, yeah. Thank you. Thanks, Maggie. Good morning. Morning. I'm Cedric. I believe this about. Let's say there's a rally at the mayor's house and somebody asked the city employee, where's the mayor's house? And that person says, well, go look it up by yourself. They're stuck in a no-win situation. If it's embarrassing to you, why did you tell this person where my house is at? At the same time, if they don't tell them where the house is at, they were rude. to have them look it up themselves. So I do believe this that that employee has a right to know or have it annotated this had something to do with a mass rally at your house and if they were if it's ruled by you that they should be uh demoted or fired that needs to come up that they were really under a really bad situation here where you're saying um In hindsight, I was embarrassed by the press, but the employee was in a no-win situation. Because either the root of the person, look up the mayor's house yourself, and I think Mayor Hales was the first person to be involved with this kind of thing, and then you got involved too. As people are finding out where your house is at, it gets on the news, and then they're stuck. Either the root of the person who's asked the question, if they say, you know, find it yourself. Yeah, and just to be crystal clear, your point's well taken, but my house is, number one, readily available online, and I have not been aware of any employees asking about that issue, nor have I retaliated against any employees who've shared where my house is. But thing number two, just so people know, I don't live at my house anymore. And that's also been made very clear in the public. If you evaluate me as an employee, I have the right to annotate that that question was asked to me that day. Yeah, understood. Thanks, Shudder. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Karma. one of the things i saw on the 2.02 against workplace harassment is jokes somebody's saying a joke i'm offended by that joke he just said now when we look at that it's interesting when you're looking at mayor bloomberg and what elizabeth warren said about him now if he was working here would he be fired i think he would be if he was supplying money to this city through grants would we stop the grants immediately and say due to these comments that Elizabeth Warren stated, we're not taking your money anymore. You either make a stand or you don't. What is that money worth to you? What does it mean to you if somebody's making those comments and they're found to be making those comments and then they're signing nondisclosure agreements that they made those comments and then you receive money from them? And of course I know the city of Portland would receive no money from the Bloomberg organization on any type of grants. And you deny it immediately and give it back. And I agree with you 100% on doing that. Now, on the overtime issues, I think there has to be a cap put in place on just how much overtime you can do. And I don't know if that's really kind of controlled by the unions on that, and it's... I really want to see that just set in position. There has to be a cap. That's all. Just put a cap and we're all good on that. The issue are the weather conditions. Well, we're in a situation right now, let's take it one step further. Let's talk about COVID-19. Are we going to have discussions on that as far as on the employees? As you can see, the room appears to be even more empty today, which I think there could be a reason for that. That's just my opinion. But now if the employees say, I'm scared. Everything I'm seeing right now, I want to stay home, I want to continue my pay. I think they should receive their pay. Now that's my opinion. That's a far reach, but it isn't too much of a far reach when you look what's going on in China, you look what's going on in other countries, and then you look what's going on beginning here. So we're going to cross an area here, which I think really needs to come up for discussion. What are we going to do on this COVID-19 pertaining to the employees, the city employees? If they're called to come into work and they feel that their safety is in jeopardy, how are they going to be treated? Will they be retaliated against? There needs to be a plan taken into consideration at this time on COVID-19. And that is my main concern right now. More than anything that I can ever deal with in this city right now. And I study everything and I go over the mapping and everything on this and the pathogen mapping and everything and every scientist and what they say. And let me tell you something. The city needs to set something up now and I'm asking that to be set up immediately. Thank you. Commissioner Horrystein, then I have a comment. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz, then Commissioner Horrystein. It's interesting in the age of Trump, there's tons of retaliation from Trump's administration. So yeah, comment all you want on that. Maggie, hang on. So we actually, like me, we already have administrative rules that allow people to do teleworking, and there is a process that they get approval from their manager and that they can work from home if they get that. Because of COVID-19. Put that on the record. We have had it. No. Put it on the record. We have had it for years. Put it on the record. COVID-19. Say it. On the record. No. No. Okay. Thank you very much. Also, we passed statewide paid sick time. So everybody in Oregon who works for an employer of five or more gets to stay home when they're sick, and we encourage people to do that. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. As an emergency room nurse by training and someone who's been in the healthcare field for ever, I just want to reiterate that the last thing we want to do is make people lose their mind about a potential virus that may or may not impact folks. Let me be clear. wait lightning don't go because I want to say something give us two more minutes or something else I want to say no we're not excluding you no no come on in we actually today has been a fabulous day with you it's upside down day we're inviting you back sit down laughing See what happens when all our communications people leave, right? It's like all of a sudden we have time. But seriously, I have absolute confidence in Multnomah County Health Department. Just so you know, the Bureau of Emergency Management, which I am in charge of, are doing daily phone calls. We're providing daily information throughout our entire first responder system. There is no need for people to lose their minds at this time. We already have systems in place that if necessary, we will be able to deploy. Right? So, again, the best advice is wash your hands. And if you feel sick, stay home and use your sick leave or your vacation or whatever you got. Right? Let's not feed into the hysteria. around people who are immigrants and refugees. I've heard that people aren't drinking. 35% of the population is no longer drinking Corona beer because they believe that's where you get the virus. We have an obligation. We have an obligation. And this is comical right now. I disagree with the statements even tying it to coronavirus. I've made nothing. People need to take this serious. Study China. Study the other countries. Thank you, Lightning. Okay, now we're going to kick you out. Bye-bye. It's been a good day. Thank you very much. You know, it's hard to compliment Lightning when he doesn't quiet down so that you can... share that we all have a concern, but we also have to be responsible with our concern. And we have to make sure that people who are the most vulnerable have what they need to get through this crisis. I have every confidence in our health department and our first responders that we are ready and able to respond when it's necessary. Thank you. So the only comment I wanted to make to Lightning, and unfortunately he left. We have Director Blass here from HR. There are already contingency plans under development for the city employees and communications are going out to city employees. That's all I wanted to contribute to that particular conversation. Thank you. Please call the roll. Fritz. Well, our interim director, Kathy Bless, is doing an absolutely fantastic job. And some interim directors are kind of hesitant to do things while they're in that role. And you have absolutely grasped the urgency of many of these issues. And so there's a lot of changes in these administrative rules. My staff and I have gone through them, and we – very much appreciate them. We thank you for working with us in the City Attorney's Office for taking another look at the 2.02. I can't ever say 2.02 without thinking of Commissioner Fish. Just 12 years ago, you know we didn't think we needed rules on how people behave in the workplace and then lo and behold we did because if you don't have the rules then you can't say actually that's not okay and so thank you for allowing more discussion of it obviously as Commissioner Eudaly has put some of her concerns on the record it is one of the most important that we all care about and so look forward to that coming back in fairly short order but in the meantime happy to support these changes aye. Hardesty Aye. Udaily? Well, I think I've already made it clear that I am concerned about city employees being harassed for doing their jobs. So I do look forward to how we can address that in the upcoming changes to HR 202. In the meantime, I'm pleased to support this. I vote aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for your hard work on that. To the regular agenda, 184, please. amend the sewer and drainage facilities design manual and delegate authority to make future revisions to the director of the Bureau of Environmental Services. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services oversees the design of sewer and drainage facilities. The sewer and drainage facilities design manual was adopted by the city council back in 2007. It's an administrative document used by BES, private developers, and a number of other city boroughs that construct public works improvements in the public right of way. This ordinance asks us, the council, to adopt a revised manual, which includes changes to be more seismically resilient and to be up to date on accepted civil engineering design practices. This ordinance also authorizes the BES director to amend manual as needed in the future to keep up with similar changes. Here today to give us a brief presentation are Bill Ryan, who's our chief engineer, Colleen Herold, who's our equity manager, and Ben Fitch, who's the quality analyst. They all do hard work with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and we're glad to have you here. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you very much for that introduction. I want to give a little further introduction to Colleen and Ben. Colleen was a design engineer for several years, and she is responsible for several of the larger sewer rehab projects that have been constructed throughout the city during that time. Great. And, Bill, I hate to be a stickler, but for the record, could you just add your name and your title? My name is Bill Ryan, Chief Engineer for BES. I appreciate it. Thank you. And as I said, Colleen's been a designer, and she took on the additional responsibility or different responsibility of taking charge of the quality of all of our standards and specifications, which you can imagine is a real exciting position. So we are very grateful to Colleen for all the great work that she's done and for Ben Fitch, who has also done... yeoman's work to assist in bringing together the sewer and drainage facilities design manual. Thank you. Uh, thank you. Thanks for having us. My name is Colleen Harold. Uh, Ben, go ahead. And I'm Ben Fitch. I'm an analyst at the Bureau of Environmental Services. Thank you both. Just a correction. I am now the quality manager, not the equity manager. Oh, thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. We're going to do a presentation, Ben and I. It takes five minutes. And we'll go back and forth and just tell you what we've done. Again, we're here to support the ordinance and ask you to approve the current revision, updated revision of the manual. as well as then give the director authority to amend the manual as needed in the future. So here we go. Go to the next slide and you start. Okay, so the project objective is pretty straightforward. It's to update the sewer design manual. The last update that had occurred was in 2008 with a couple side aratus that were not formally, that were not put into the manual itself. So simply put, we needed to update the manual and reference what we're actually doing in practice, and standards have changed. So it was just to bring that forward and make it actually line up with what we're doing today. We have taken the manual. We've updated language figures, policies, codes, and title call-outs and references. We've looked at all the equations. We've made sure they're correct and reflected that. We've updated and pretty much rewritten chapters 5, 6, and 7 that relate back to the zoning codes that are coming in November to you. We've had expanded... the sections of choices materials, which in the past designers have had to ask permission to use. Now they're in the manual, which creates efficiency. You don't have to ask to use them. They're there for you to use. And it increases the tools in their toolbox, which we wanted to do. And we had gender language in our manual? We did. Yes. All the manholes are now maintenance holes. We no longer call them... The manholes are now... Maintenance holes. Maintenance holes. Yeah, I really... Yeah, I... No, I'm laughing because it just never occurred to me that our manuals would be gender anything, right? that would even come up. But as soon as you said manhole cover, I was like, yeah, of course. I wish there were womenholes now, but they're manholes. They're men's holes. I don't wish that. Listen. Let's proceed. Yeah, let's move on. Yeah, let's proceed. So we've increased some sections. We've added a resiliency and seismic considerations section because, again, our city is proactive that way. And we wanted to create just a paragraph or two to really challenge people to start merging this into their designs, in particular with sewers. We also have added the use of trenchless technologies into a section because we do, we are state of the art, the City of Portland in trenchless technologies. We do cured in place, we do microtunneling and horizontal directional drilling and other cities call us because we are the experts in those construction methods. And we want that to be in the manual and for them to continue to call us. So those sections are updated as well. With this next slide, you'll briefly see our schedule and timeline. This schedule has included two inside internal reviews of the manual, the 50 and 90, and it's also included a public review that had two public information sessions. And we have received and responded to consultant, contractor, and manufacturer comments to address their concerns and make the manual better with their help. I just another note is if you approve today we will still be doing our normal public reviews so this isn't going to go strictly internal. We will still go to the public and make sure that our consultants are are aware of what's going on with their manual changes and that they have an active voice in what's going on. Do you have a technical advisor committee? I know we have the Portland Utility Board, but they're not necessarily the technical experts. Do you have a group that you rely on for things like this? So we have Colleen went before NUCCA and talked to NUCCA, which is... Northwest Utility Contractors Association. We also took it to DRAC. But we do have BES. We also have a BES standards and practices. So if we hit a problem of any kind or an issue where we didn't know how to advance, we brought it to our in-house standards and practices made up of upper management and lower management to help us improve find the path to solve the issue if there was one. But I'm glad to hear that we do have public input as well. We do have public input, and we received some very good feedback from – there was an outside technical expert who represented a concrete association, and they gave us very good comments and actually helped some of our equations out. So, yeah, we have received also internal and external – technical experts yeah and is it specified as to what the public engagement will be for future manual revisions that manual speaks to any edits comments update you know corrections you can fill out a form and give it to ben and i online and we'll address it immediately and that's all when you're going to make a change is there a specified like you just showed the timeline of public meeting comment period is that going to be still in effect? That will remain the same even though internally we'll no longer if you accept this proposal we'll no longer have to come to you for changes. Right. We're going to still keep the same process so there will still be a public review and comment period. And that's required in what we're approving. Great. And I would like to say that no major issues, we worked with other bureaus that are included in our public outreach, and there were no major issues. In fact, we worked together on inlet ownership and maintenance. So I wanted you to know that. Thank you. If I might, you know, I don't think that – it's great to know that this sewer and drainage facility design manual will continue to be updated. I guess the question is under what circumstance would you come in front back to the city council seeking, um, our input, uh, before you made, what would be the process for you to seek out input for making additional changes if it was like different than the norm and like it's different than just language change? What would the scenario have to be in order for you to want to come back in front of us for authorization and approval for changes? Commissioner, I can't imagine what the circumstance would be, but I know that we'll be working with our commissioner directly in future changes, and hopefully they'll be able to identify this is something that probably goes beyond this. So right offhand, I can't think of a circumstance that would create that. I would suspect that if you're about to make a change that requires us to invest tens of millions of dollars into it, that you'd probably want to talk to us before you made a change like that, right? Certainly. Yeah. All right. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions? Please continue. Okay. Just lastly, we want this manual to be a live document. So we're going to have a live link. Of course, there will be hard copies located at the Portland building and at the BDS permit center for your pickup and purchase if you want something offline. Ben and I will continue to be the contacts for that. Any changes or updates? And then I just want to thank Ben as an equal facilitator during this manual update process. And it really made this update come to fruition, and I just want to thank him for his work. Thank you. Any additional questions? Commissioner Burns. Thank you, President Hardesty. Madam President, I regret that we're probably not going to be saying that at the national level for the next four years, but I'll say it at the local level. We can do it here. I just have a question about this. stormwater management manual, that's different from this, is that right? It is. Yes. But along that line, you know, we work very closely with the stormwater management manual team because we want these to look like a set and that they come together. A lot of the two manuals had great overlap, and we worked on separating that when we did this manual, which was part of why this ended up on my desk is that overlap became confusing. So we work with that team extensively to make sure that we were in agreement and that the duplication was removed when possible. And the stormwater management manual, if changes to that would come back to council, is that correct? Absolutely. Yeah. I would just say as an editorial comment that I feel absolutely no... expertise in sewer design. So I'm happy to change this to be an administrative process. I think when it comes to stormwater management, it's something that average people are interested in because we might be digging the ditches ourselves. So I'm glad to hear that you've made those things separate and made them more comprehensive. Thanks for bringing that up. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Any other questions? I just have a question. If we approve this, this manual then becomes retroactive to January 2020. Is there a reason why we would, is that, am I not accurate in that? I would like to make it start today. So it would be, because my question would be if, why not bring it in time to make it start, like, once the council has voted on it. Absolutely. Let's make that record. Thank you. Excellent. In order to make it start today, we would have to change it to be an emergency ordinance, which the mayor is not here for. We have to have four people to do that. I think it's definitely a good idea to make it that. So maybe we could not vote on this until the mayor gets back. I think he'll probably be back. Let's see if there's any public testimony. Have you completed your formal testimony? Thank you. Carla, is there any public testimony on this issue? Yes, we have. One person, Maggie, signed up. All right. Thank you very much. Please hang out, and we'll see if we are able to make that change happen. Maggie, come on up. Are you declining to speak? Yeah. Are you done? Okay. In that case, we could just table this until the mayor comes back for a vote and just go to the next item. And what is the next item? We're on 185. Is that the pleasure of my? Okay. So we'll just table the current item and go to the next one until the mayor returns. And we anticipate him coming back. His phone is here, so he didn't go too far. Caller, if you'll please call the next item. 185, amend contract with HDR Engineering, Inc., for additional construction support services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Renewable Natural Gas Facility, project number E10033, for $229,000. Thank you. Thank you. Second reading. Commissioner Fritz? It's the second reading. It's the second reading. Okay. Any additional conversation? Mayor, we are on 186. 185.
 185. 185, sorry. 185, second reading, and we're calling for the vote. Fritz? I wasn't here for the public hearing, but my staff and I have reviewed the record. Thank you to Yesenia Carrillo, my staff. Happy to vote aye. Hardesty? Aye. Aye. You daily. Well, I'm happy to see us move one step closer to achieving Commissioner Fish's vision. I enjoyed a congenial relationship with Commissioner Fish that involved a lot of good natured ribbing and I certainly got a lot of mileage out of BES in that arena from failing sewer pipes and poop to power. But in all seriousness, I think this project puts us on the cutting edge of publicly owned renewable energy. I support this limited use capturing of capturing for on-site use which is better than flaring. While renewable natural gas is certainly an improvement, it is an interim step toward our climate goals, and it's no substitute for a transition to clean electricity. But we might as well capture those gases that are going to be released anyway. I'd like to thank Bureau of Environmental Services staff and a senator from Commissioner Fish's office for their work on this project. I vote aye. Wheeler. This was a true passion of Commissioner Fish, and I'm sorry he isn't here today to see this to fruition, but he probably is, right? He's probably watching, and he's laughing about his poop-to-power joke. And it never gets old, does it? I want to thank him for his leadership on this and his vision in working with BES. This was great innovative thinking on the part of the folks at BES to do something really, really interesting and worthwhile to the public. And Asena Lawrence, who's here today, worked very, very hard on this issue for Commissioner Fish. And I'm glad we're just here today to have the opportunity to see it to fruition. It was a great presentation, good public testimony. I'm proud to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. We're going to go back to item 184. It's my understanding that we're going to put an emergency clause on that. I'll entertain a motion. We have to give a reason. So I move to add an emergency clause because it's in the public interest to have changes to rules going to effect immediately. And it sounds like Commissioner Hardesty is the second, if that's all right. Commissioner Udaly? Please call. It's not a competition. You've got to be fast around here. You've got to be quick. That's why I drink the coffee. You need to have the buzz to be able to be fast. Carla, could you please call the roll on the emergency amendment? Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. The main motion is amended. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Excellent work on this and I really appreciate the very thoughtful way that you've gone about doing it. As I say, you are absolutely the experts on sewer design and the public benefits because you've really had some very innovative solutions in here. Thank you both for your work, all three of you for your work. Aye. Hardesty? Ditto. Commissioner Fritz? I vote aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler. Thanks for your hard work on this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, also a second reading, item number 186, please. Amend contract with McClure and Sons, Inc. for additional compensation to complete contract work due to design modifications and change conditions for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Facility, project number E10033 for $4,452,012. This is the second reading. We've already heard a presentation on this item. We've taken public testimony. Is there any further business? Seeing none, Carla, if you could please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is number 187. Amend Revenue and Finance Code to streamline the procurement and contracting processes. So I have a brief introduction and then I believe there will be some amendments. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an item that we've been considering for some time now. Lester Spittler first introduced these proposed changes to the city's procurement code in March of last year. When we permanently increased his position signature authority to $1 million for goods and services, construction and professional technical and expert services after a pilot period. In August of last year, we had a work session with the Procurement Services team. It was an interesting work session. And in the interim, Lester and his team has met with several of us and our staffs to hear potential concerns and discuss potential changes in a little more detail. As a reminder, these proposed procurement changes are intended to streamline the procurement and contracting process for the city. The city procures and contracts for hundreds of millions of dollars each and every year. Procurement services is our central support team that ensures the city's being good stewards of the taxpayer dollars that we spend and also making sure that we're doing so as efficiently and effectively as possible. I understand that my colleagues have a few amendments and I'd certainly like at this point for people to introduce those amendments should they so choose. I think that they were introduced into the ordinance and so aren't we just voting on this as a second reading? So, no. My understanding is that the amendment that I proposed, and I'm not sure about the amendment that you proposed, will need to be added today because I just found out this morning that my amendment was not included. So, what you have here is the amendment that I had recommended. I was a little frustrated as well. This is the fifth time this has been on the council's agenda. And I was ready to vote and say, you know, how great that we've come to this. Lester, could you come up and add some clarity to this, please? I was a little surprised to find that out for myself. It's the sixth time, actually. Hi. Hi. Hi. So, Lester, what's going on? Who are you? Lester Spittler, the city's chief procurement officer. Hi. Thank you. So this is the first time that the amendments are being proposed after the first reading. So the first reading was on November 6th, and since then there hasn't been an official opportunity to propose the amendments. So that's why we're doing it now. So let's do it. If my staff was watching in my office, could please bring in my amendments? That would be very helpful. Let's take a five-minute recess. All right. Thank you. Yeah, let's find out what's going on. Okay. Oh, thanks for the coffee. All right. We're going to give Commissioner Fritz just a few more minutes. We'll go to a couple. There's a second reading here, 188. Why don't we get to that? So do we need to table? So, yeah, 187 we'll table for a moment. We'll go to 188, please, Carla. 188, authorized an intergovernmental agreement between the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, Procurement Services, Multnomah County, Washington County, Metro, and the Port of Portland for the development and administration of the Regional Clean Air Construction Program for approximately $136,000 annually for seven years. Oh, very good. Here's Commissioner Fritz already. I'll hand that out. Thank you. Thank you very much. So, Commissioner Fritz, I just asked Carla to read 188, which is the IGA with Metro, Multnomah County, Washington County, on the administration of the Portland Clean Air Construction Program that we heard about last week. It's a second reading, and unless anybody has any objections, we'll call the roll. Carla, call the roll, please. Fritz, aye. Aye. Hardesty?
 Aye.
 Udailey? I just want to say I'm very supportive of this work and concerned with our air quality. Multnomah County has the worst air quality in the state and Portland is in the top 30 worst air pollution, worst for short term particulate pollution in the country. I vote aye. Wheeler? This is a great extension of the work we're already doing at the city level. We passed our own clean air construction standards. We funded it in the last budget. This expands our partnerships beyond the borders of our fair city to acknowledge that the airshed does not know borders. I'm happy to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And we'll go back to 187, which was open. Commissioner Fritz, would you like to propose your amendments first, please? Thank you, Matt. Thank you to the procurement staff for working with my office on this. The first is an amendment to Section 5.33.130, Emergency Procurements. It provides authority for the Chief Procurement Officer and Bureau Directors to execute contracts resulting from emergencies of any amount with Commissioner in charge of approval. That was what the Procurement Office had previously proposed. My amendment requires emergency contacts over 100 days contracts over $150,000 to be brought to Council at the next possible scheduled session. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz and a second from Commissioner Hardesty on Fritz I. The second is Section 5.33.060, Authority of Directors. It leaves the current status quo of maintaining authority to grant awards of up to $5,000 with no increase. Thank you. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Hardesty on Fritz 2. Thank you. And then the last one is Section 5.33.060, Authority of Directors. Gives the authority to award, execute, amend, and terminate intergovernmental agreements up to $50,000. It's currently $5,000. And removes procurement from the intergovernmental agreement process. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Hardesty on Fritz. for its three. Commissioner Hardesty, you have an amendment as well. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. Section 5.34.510, pre-qualification of offerors. A, it says the city of Portland requires pre-qualification of all prime construction contractors, except for prime construction contractors that are enrolled in the prime contractor development program. So they're three times fast. On public improvement contracts with an estimated value of a half million dollars or greater, O.R.S. 279C.4301. in parentheses one, which allows public agencies the option to adopt their own rules for mandatory pre-qualifications of contractors desiring to bid for public improvement contracts led by that agency. The chief procurement officer has the authority to require pre-qualification for public improvement contracts a half million dollars or less This city shall not consider a bid from a bidder that is not pre-qualified if the city required pre-qualification. I'll second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from myself. That will be Hardesty 1. Colleagues, I'd like to introduce an amendment as well to introduce an emergency clause to this ordinance. Second. We have a second. The emergency is actually multifaceted. Number one, as Commissioner Fritz indicated, we've been hanging on to this for some time. We would like to get the program started as soon as possible, particularly presuming the passage of Commissioner Hardesty's amendment relative to minority contractors. I think it's important that we get this ball rolling sooner rather than later. I think there is a public concern. benefit case to be made here that is a strong one. So I move an emergency clause. And Commissioner Hardesty is seconded. And Commissioner Hardesty is seconded. That's Wheeler 1. So with all of that, is there any further, we'll open this up to public testimony because there's some new amendments. Would anybody like to testify on any of these particular amendments? Come on up. And if you could introduce your name for the record again. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson for the record. Thank you, Madam President Hardesty, Mayor Wheeler and Fritz and Mr. Daley being left out of the amendment game there. The one thing I think would be even more comfortable for the public when you're approving this as an emergency is, well, first of all, when the charter review comes, we really should develop some new language that distinguishes just... urgency from emergency. It's urgent to do things in the public benefit. It's an emergency when one of the bridges falls into the river. Or, you know, maybe also, I haven't been here earlier in the day, San Francisco considers the coronavirus an emergency. That's different than just tweaking the procurement rules to go up to a million dollars of buying power for the chief procurement officer. The amendments, I think... make it even better. Overall, in the interest of good governance, when you're saying it's an emergency, it would have been better if the staff that did the initial documentation and the three exhibits that are available online had said how many items in this interim would have been streamlined. Is there only two items... in four months or five months that would benefit from the streamlined process, then it's not a big cost savings. If there were 29 items, you know, unfortunately I have not gone deeply into the budget to know what percentage of our city's awarded contracts hit the million dollar threshold, but when we elect you all, whether it's by 100,000 votes or 150,000 votes, we definitely want you to be able to be kind of fluent with that language about who are the biggest contractors, where do the various threshold levels fall. But I know you are being attentive to that and I think these amendments make this stronger so it's not too hard to swallow the emergency language. Thank you all. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a comment? I just wanted to respond to Charles' question. Charles, just so you know, when I first got here that emergency clause made me a bit batty because it appeared that just about everything that we did was an emergency. In this particular case, however, I feel that the procurement office has done their due diligence by reaching out and really trying to reach agreement with the other council officers, and this has been going on for quite some time. And so for me, the reason I'm supporting an emergency is because I want them to actually go and get those contracts out the door rather than continuing to come back to council trying to seek agreement, right? I think we've got agreement, so let's just move it. because the value system is the same. The question is how we get there. Thank you, Madam President, and all y'all. Very good. And just to note that I did ask the 2011 Charter Commission to look at that issue, and the Charter Commission decided not to. So that's how the process works. We'll be having another Charter Commission next year, and I encourage... Why is that now? Well, I encourage you as a community member. Yes. We don't get to tell the Charter Commission what to do. You do. So I encourage you to make that point again, please. Thank both of you. Very good. I agree the nomenclature is confusing on that one. All right. Very good. So we will take votes on the amendments first, then to the main motion. First up is Fritz number one relating to emergency procurements. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Fritz two, which is related to the authority of directors. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Happy to support. I vote aye. The amendment's adopted. Fritz number three related also to the authority of directors. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. The amendment is adopted. Now to Hardesty one related to prequalification and prime contracting amongst other things. Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The amendment is adopted. We'll go to the main motion first. Well, let me think about that for a second. Yeah, I'll take my chances. Let's go ahead and vote on Wheeler 1, the addition of the emergency clause. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. The amendment is adopted. To the main motion is amended. Fritz. Aye. I'm very glad we get to vote on this today. Thank you very much to Procurement Services for all the work that you've done, for Tim Crail and Claire Adamsick and my staff for all the work that they've done. As a reminder, this is the sixth time we've had this on the council agenda. When we had it the fifth time on the 18th of December, the vote then was 2-2, because Commissioner Fish was out on his final leave. And Commissioner Hardesty and I both had concerns, but in different sections of the code. And Mayor Wheeler could have dealt with just one of us and made one of us happy to pass something 3-1. And you didn't do that, Mayor Wheeler. You really wanted to get to consensus on this. And I appreciate that because it is, we have four and seem to be again five different perspectives. We're intelligent people who look at things that we got, limited public testimony in any of the six hearings, I would have to say. But we and our staff do do our due diligence and dig into, is this the appropriate amount of authority? Who gets the authority? And so I appreciate, Mayor Wheeler, that you have taken the time to make sure that everybody had input and that we can all support it. I appreciate that very much. Thank you. Hardesty. Nice to see you. Thank you. I also want to appreciate Lester. I'm sure Lester was pulling his hair out at some point in this process and wondering if we would ever get to a vote on this particular issue. But I I absolutely agree with everything that Commissioner Fritz said. It's important to me that we do it right rather than fast. It's important to me that we actually are able to get dialogue and figure out kind of what is the values that we're trying to push forward when we make these changes happen. And I think all of us agree that The buck does stop with us here on the city council, and we don't want to delegate that authority to any department heads any more than we absolutely need to. Because at the end of the day, the voters will be asking us why we made decisions that we made, and we need to be able to stand behind those decisions. I also want to applaud Mayor Wheeler because he did, in fact... spent a lot of time, a lot more time than I'm sure he thought he would spend, actually having conversations about how this process would work. The good thing about having five distinct voices is you have five distinct perspectives, and the goal is always to get to agreement. Some days we just agree that we're not going to get there. I'm happy today is not one of those days, and I'm very excited to vote aye. Uday Lee. Aye. Wheeler. Well, this was more complicated than I think people realized. But it was also more interesting than I expected it to be. And Lester, thank you for your patience on this. I think you proved yourself. worthy of the title that you carry as director, and you listened intently to what people were saying. And frankly, I've learned a lot over the course of this process. So I thought it was a good conversation. I learned more about some of the finer points of procurement that I hadn't fully considered previously. I think my colleagues chiming in with various perspectives, I think, shed light on parts of the code that may be... the city council hadn't thought about in great detail previously. And so I see this as a collaborative effort to move the ball forward. I'm really happy with it. Thank you, colleagues. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. Next up, 189, Parks and Recreation. Authorize Portland Parks and Recreation to transfer $60,000 and the Bureau of Environmental Services to transfer $260,000 to the Peninsula Drainage District Number 1 for operational and capital expenses in fiscal year 2019-2020. Colleagues, as we all know, the North Portland area is protected from the Columbia River flooding by a series of levees. Peninsula Drainage District number one, or PEN1, is the westernmost of four drainage districts located in Multnomah County. The four separate districts are expected to be replaced in the next several years by a new single urban flood safety and water quality district that will use a different funding model. But in the meanwhile, Pen 1 has a funding gap resulting from property tax compression caused by what I will describe as Oregon's unique property tax system. This ordinance authorizes two one-time contributions. First, Parks will fund $60,000 of general operating support because Parks is also the largest landowner in Pen 1 at 77% of the district's total area. Second, BES, the Bureau of Environmental Services, will fund $260,000 of capital maintenance to aid in executing an existing intergovernmental agreement to manage stormwater in the district. This additional funding will directly benefit our stormwater management system. And we know that relevant budget directors and of course the city budget office are all working to identify a path forward to support PennOne until the new district is ultimately formed. I'll now turn it over to Claudio Camposano, who's our finance manager at Parks. And Jonas Beery, who's the business operations manager at the Bureau of Environmental Services. Thank you gentlemen for being here and thank you for your patience. I hope you're learning a lot today on other subjects. Absolutely. Good morning. Claudio Camposano, finance property technology manager for parks. I think the mayor summarized the nature of the ordinance well. To address the request from Peninsula One Drainage District in the fall, The directors from Portland Parks and Recreation, Environmental Services, the City Budget, and the Chief Administrative Officer. We all met with representatives from PEN1 and identified some resources to tide them through this current fiscal year. And this action would authorize those transfers of budgeted one-time resources. I do just want to note that while this action addresses the current situation, the current near-term issues for this fiscal year. The solvency challenge will continue in Pen 1. And to that end, the district has made a request through the special appropriations process for fiscal year 2021. And so I believe you'll be addressing that longer term need over the next couple of weeks. But as I said, this action merely authorizes the entering into the agreement for the current fiscal year funding that was identified in the fall bump. So at this point, happy to take any questions. Nothing. Very good. Do we have any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have. Two people signed up, Maggie and Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. Thank you. Good morning again, Commissioner Charles Bridgecrain-Johnson for the record and I want to thank you for that pretty clarifying explanation of PEN1. I didn't have time to look at the different resources of the city, but when we're in this situation where the other local governments that we sometimes IGA with metro regional government is looking to give us maybe $300 million of annually renewable aid to homelessness. And then in this fall, billions of dollars of transportation spending. I hope that the city... and the Legislative Affairs Office will make it easier to find more information on the potential resolutions for changing this drainage district situation for Penn 1. That whole area, while it's within the city limits of Portland, is really part of regional safety and stability. So I think, you know, the Legislative Affairs Office needs to be looking at how you know, even though we hate state preemption, what kind of structures do the public need to be engaging with all of our elected officials about so that Penn One and these other districts can be put into something that doesn't take away from our Parks Department? It's really sad to see even $60,000 leave a Parks Bureau that had to lay people off and close community pools. So I look forward to engaging with all of us constituents about a fix. We didn't hear about a specific amount that's already been requested. I think it was Director Claudio mentioned that they're preparing for next year, but I didn't hear whether it was going to be a similar amount or a bigger chunk of pie that might go out of parks and other bureaus. But thanks for making this clear and doing what we're obligated to do. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Okay, Maggie, Portland Homeless Town Hall. And normally I would agree with Charles about the Parks Department not getting money taken away. But frankly, if they would just stop their Jim Crow behavior around the bathrooms and the homeless, I mean, taxpayers pay for the parks. Homeless people should be able to use the bathroom. So deal with that situation and then stop taking money from the parks. As far as, like, drainage systems, I guess I would want to say to people to be really concerned about pesticides and chemicals. And, you know, if people are peeing and pooping on the streets, well, guess what? That's all going down the storage drain. So there you go. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. Any further discussion? Very good. Carla, please call the roll. It's an emergency item. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Tardis D. I want to remind folks that the city council and its wisdom actually set aside this money in the fall bump for this, so it's not like we're taking it out of parks operating budget. So I just want to make sure that's on the record. Aye vote aye. Aye. Uday Lee?
 Aye.
 Wheeler?
 Aye. Your answer is adopted. Thank you for your good work on this. Next item is item 190. Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for 82nd Avenue multi-use, located at 1750 Northeast 82nd Avenue. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Dori VanBakkel, the development incentives program manager. Welcome. Good morning. Thanks for being here. I'm Mary Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Dori VanBakkel with Portland Housing Bureau. And we are here with yet another tax exemption to help incentivize inclusionary housing success with this particular project, providing five of the 78 units affordable for 99 years at 60% and meeting family income. It will be the 79th project with close to 600 units of private development that we've achieved with this program so far. I'm happy to entertain any questions. Commissioner Hersey has a question. Thank you. Would you give me that data again? It was how many units at 60% of MFI? For this particular project, it is five. Five units. And what's the total amount of units that are going up on this property? 78. So 78 units, and we're going to get five units. at a 60% of MFI. And so what is that income level? What is the income restrictions for folks who would qualify for that property? I believe for a family of four, it's around 48,000. I don't have the numbers at the top of my head. Do we know what size the units are that will be available for folks at 60%? It's a mix of primarily studio and one-bedroom units, and there's two two-bedroom units in the building, so one of those will be affordable. So, Mayor, I will say that I'm just really not that satisfied with this particular program because it feels like we get a drop in the bucket. We're doing nothing to address really family units in this process. And no disrespect to you and the work that you've done on this particular project, but I think it's time for us to actually look at this program and find out if we're really getting the benefit that we think that we're getting from this particular housing effort. As I sit here and continue to approve these three-year, four-year projects, most of them are studios, most of them are one incomes. And if there's a 70 unit apartment complex that's being built in a community that may or may not be gentrifying, I am concerned about how those people get access to food and whatever their self-care products are in that community. And so I just feel like we just keep doing these as nickel and dimes, but we're not looking at the big picture and figuring out, are we really having an impact or is there a better way for us to use our tax? um, uh, uh, uh, uh, exemption opportunities to really have much more significant impact. Because I, I, as a whole, I'm just not seeing that we're getting the, the return that we desperately need on these kind of projects. Very good. Tori, how would you respond to that? Well, in a couple of ways. One is that outside of the central city, projects are only required to provide 8% of the total units if they're provided at the 60% MFI level or below. And so that's part of a program requirement. policy that was in place that will expire actually in another year or so and after that time the requirement will go up to 10% as it is in the rest of the city and the same as for 80% units we put in a temporary policy of 15% that will go to 20 throughout the city. And that was implemented by council as a means to ensure that the program did have some success and to help balance what, you know, the amount of subsidy that developers do have to account for in providing the affordable units for 99 years. And so certainly it is a balance that we're looking at and we'll continue to look at with the program. And so that's one of the considerations that council can take in the future as to whether or not we'd want to extend or let that part, you know, sail. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz. And isn't this set by state laws to how much we can require? Yes, it is. Well, at least that we cannot require more than 20% at 80% is the state requirement. 20% to 80%. And so we provide the other incentive to get it down. Yes. Yeah, and so there are tax incentives provided outside of the central city. It's true that the building only receives exemptions for the affordable units, so it's not a big amount on this particular project. And that's because the cost of construction is lower for a project outside of the central city. It's, you know, when we're getting into the central city with concrete, larger steel projects, then certainly that's why the decision in the development of the program was made to exempt all of the units in the building because to outweigh the costs. So in this particular project, there's only a total over 10 years of an estimated 70,000 of tax exemption provided for the 99 years that we'll receive of affordability out of those five units. There is a small amount of SDCs that will be exempted only for those five units, as well as a small reduction to the construction excise tax for those five units as well. Commissioner Daley. I'm sorry Commissioner Hurst. Did you have another question? So at some point I suspect we're going to have a full report since they anticipated a conclusion of this particular. You said that the exemption would change at the end of next year right? So this would sunset? Yes as far as the required percentage of affordable units in each project yes. So I would really look forward to having a more detailed conversation about whether or not these nickel and dime developments really are helping us change the outcomes for folks in our community. And though I appreciate that. the tax exemption is just for those units. I'm thinking about the people who are living in those units and whether or not those individuals are isolated, whether or not they're getting their needs met in those neighborhoods where those units are going up. And again, when you have 70 units and only three of them are quote-unquote affordable, and we all know that that's not even affordable at 60% of MFI conditions, because basically we're talking an individual, and an individual would have to make, what, $40,000, $45,000 in order to qualify for these qualifications. quote-unquote affordable units, and what we know is that people who are working two and three full-time minimum wage jobs don't qualify for those units at 60% of MFI. So I'm not saying it doesn't impact somebody, but what I'm saying is whether or not we're putting our resources in the right place to have the biggest impact for the most number of people. And every time I see these things, I'm left with that question. So thank you. Appreciate you being here. And, again, nothing about this particular project, nothing about the presentation, but just overall as a policy, as a council, I think we have to reevaluate every step of the way whether or not we're getting a good return on our investment. So thank you. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes. Maggie and Charles Bridgegreen-Johnson. Good afternoon. I'll take your word for it. Good afternoon. So, I think that one thing that would, you know, I know you're just always dying to hear me tell you how to be even better than the awesomeness you're doing. The best way to describe this location was to say 10 blocks south of Madison High School. Madison High School isn't really high schooling right now, it's on reconstruction. But the, and I, It's an interesting balance between the point that Commissioner Fritz raised that we're only waiving $22,000-ish in property taxes, and yet we're getting 70-some apartments, and 8% of those will be set aside for people that are going to be at 60% of MFI. It's interesting to wonder where the rest of the people who are going to be paying market rate rents but aren't making... 100% of MFI are going to come from. Um, so this location, uh, I don't know. I know that the police raided a house not very far from this because of some activity to stop fascists in here. Uh, just, uh, there's a park relatively close to this neighborhood. Um, so I'm glad that we're doing something, but I do think that, uh, in addition to all the hard work the Housing Bureau and our Home Forward already have to do, Commissioner Hardesty's questions, Commissioner Hardesty's, Madam President Hardesty's questions really resonate with me of okay, we're looking at these five units cut out to reach these 60% MFI people, but what's really going on in that neighborhood? On other agenda items, I think there was a project in Cully the presenters talked about the diversity of that neighborhood and the different income levels that those people fell in along with the information about what ethnicities were more common or less common in those neighborhoods. And I think that even though this is a small amount of money, $22,000, if we're really going to serve the people who have desperate and severe needs, it would help if the Housing Bureau could give us a little bit extra data about the big picture. And the testimony left it unclear as to whether the sunsetting of the 8% cap means that the 10% cap is going to spread to cover the whole city or whether there's going to be no multi-coverage outside of the inner core of the city. So I hope that you all have some clarity or could share that with us. Thank you. Thank you. And 60% MFI is what, about $53,000? So... They're going to start with people who make $53,000. People on Social Security aren't getting $53,000 a year. People like me, they don't get $53,000 a year. That's why we're homeless. So I would say that having gone through 20 pages of government property and looking at subsidized housing and Section 8. And knowing that, again, I will use the words I used at Metro, any rich jerk can go out and buy these contractor housing and they can put in any manager and those managers can be abusive to disabled people. people, females, and you know gender, race, LGBTQ, and those people can be out on the street because they want to do something else with that. And I want us to get properties and put in managers that are going to have a people who've been marginalized by society and are not socially connected and don't have power and are going to help them stay in their housing or get their housing because with an 80 percent compliance rate according to the contract with them not even making meeting 80% compliance rate and then HUD looking the other way and saying oh you don't want to meet your compliance rates and having a year to make their compliance rate in year after year after year they never meet their compliance to put people into housing the number of the equity targets that they're supposed to meet year after year after year. They don't meet them and HUD looks the other way and this is why we end up with a homeless problem. Okay? Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. This is an emergency ordinance. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Hardesty. And so I also appreciate us trying to do everything we can to improve opportunities for low-income folks to get housing. Just not sure if this is the program that's actually going to help us make it happen. I vote aye today. I'm going to be looking at these as these... continue to come in front of us here at City Council. I'm gonna continue to be asking really hard questions because I really think it's important to say, to not say that we're building a housing that people can afford to live in. If we're saying it's at 60% of MFI and that's somewhere between 45 and $55,000 for an individual, I just don't think that we can actually, with a straight face, call that housing that people can afford to live in. So I vote aye. You, Daly? Well, I want to thank you for your work, and I feel like we need to clarify a couple issues. There's a limit to what we can compel private developers to do. And so programs like inclusionary zoning and multi- are designed to either require or incentivize affordable housing at the 60, 80% level, which, while that does not serve the lowest income individuals in our community, it certainly does help fill a massive gap that exists in that community. income segment. We need to do this as much as possible so that we can devote our public dollars to serving those who earn zero to 30%, which has to be our priority for public dollars. So I'm very interested in the conversation as to whether or not we're getting a good return on our investment, which is the tax abatement. No. No. No. No, Maggie, testimony is over. No, testimony is over. I've called the roll. You cannot interrupt. Thank you. Yeah, that's really unhelpful and disruptive. So... I think like Commissioner Hardesty, I'm very interested in an analysis of what we are getting for that gift of a tax abatement. Because I know it's a more complex equation than 10 years of tax abatement for X number of affordability years. So I'm happy to support it. Interested in more conversation, I vote aye. Wheeler. Good conversation. Good discussion. And, Dory, if you could reach out to my fellow commissioners' offices and give them the opportunity to ask further questions, that would be helpful. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item is 191. amend the Open and Accountable Elections Program to permit the Director to reduce the total public contribution for special elections if the amount in the Open and Accountable Elections Fund is insufficient. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. This is an amendment to the Open and Accountable Elections Code to give the program more flexibility in how to handle a budget shortfall for special elections. The program is fully funded for the regularly scheduled elections this year, all three of them, and we'll be providing donors with the full six to one match and the full match caps through November 2nd 2020. Special elections are by nature unanticipated and therefore not budgeted for in the regular budgeting process. And I think that as we continue to develop this program, we're going to need to look at the allocations. I was thinking back to 2008. when there was a special election left by Commissioner Stens' resignation, which Commissioner Fish won. There was plenty of money in the voter-owned elections account at that time, so much so that we raided it in 2009 and 2010 during the recession. I think we hit the budget correctly for the scheduled elections, but the special elections are rare and we hope they continue to be so. There are 13 candidates participating in the special nominating election on May 19th. This is creating a potential shortfall in the Open and Accountable Elections Fund. The Open and Accountable Election Code currently allows the director to reduce the match rate from six to one in the case of a shortfall. We believe it would be more predictable for the city to instead lower the match cap, the total that each participating candidate can receive in matching funds, instead of the match rate. It would also be less disruptive to candidates' fundraising strategies, and we have received feedback from candidates that they support this change in director. Mote has done an excellent job of reaching out to all of the candidates running. Thank you. It's also easy for the public to understand how the Open and Accountable Election Programme works if the match rate of 6 to 1 is the same across all races, not 6 to 1 for the regularly scheduled election and lower for the special election. This amendment would allow the programme to lower the match cap for special elections instead of the match rate for special elections. Instead of Osweila, or would it be either or, or just? give the director the discretion to lower the match cap in special elections. It doesn't, I suppose, specifically say instead of the match rate, so I suppose both could be done, though I've promised people. This is, well, for this particular case, right. And By design, the director of the Open and Accountable Elections Program has significant autonomy and authority to set the rules, to haul it off as much as possible from the council while the auditor continues to not want to have it in her portfolio. So with that, I will give it to, pass the mic to Director Susan Mote. I don't have anything to add, although I'm here to answer anyone's questions. Commissioner Hardesty has a question. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to absolutely compliment Susan. You know, we were all a bit nervous before. we launched the open and accountable elections program. We were not nervous because we didn't believe in the program. We were nervous because we were up against some very, very tight timelines. And I just want to take this moment to publicly appreciate the fact that I've heard not one complaint this election cycle about either lack of information, lack of understanding, lack of process. And I know that means that you and your staff have been working overtime to share information and make sure that everyone has access to the information. So I just want to applaud you. I sat here and I just thought it's just not going to be possible, not in this short time period where the technology oversight efforts, advisory committee, having confidence in you and your team, but also acknowledging it's a really, really, really tight timeline. And then we were, and then we added a new wrinkle with a special election thrown into the mix that none of us had anticipated. I just want you to know how grateful I am for you and your staff and the incredible work that you've done to get us to this point. I have every confidence that this will be one of the best public finance election cycles in the history of Oregon. It is because of your due diligence in this process. So thank you, thank you, thank you. And I would be remiss if I didn't thank Commissioner Fritz for her vision for her leadership because we would have never even been talking about this again had Commissioner Fritz not had the vision and created the community process to lead us to this effort. So job well done. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. I appreciate that. I will also just state for the record that since this only applies to special elections, all four of us are eligible to vote on it without any conflict of interest. Well, it's good to know that. Very good. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Carla? Yes. Maggie Charles-Bridgecrain-Johnson and Shedrick Wilkins. Can we go to two minutes, please, just because I want to make sure we get through our agenda. And we're hungry. I won't be too hard about it, but if you can try and stay in the two-minute time frame, we'd appreciate it. Go ahead, Chedrick. Chedrick, do you want to start? Since this applies to special elections, I didn't know that. But I will say this about campaign limitations on contributions. In the year 2018, Newt Buechner ran against Kate Brown for governor. And what happened with him is he was trying to say he got a $500,000 contribution from Nike, which actually has jobs when President Trump is saying made in America, right? And so I want to know that, right? Another one is on 105, Newt Buechner decides he's going to agree, Dr. Newt Buechner is going to agree with President Trump that we need immigration reform. Right? So... But actually, this caused no on 105, which was racial profiling, right? So again, and in this whole process, I met Commissioner Hardesty at the no on 105, which was actually... So getting money from rich people indicates to me that they're having inconsistent philosophies, right? It's not the other way around that they're buying the election. And by the way, I just found out, I think, that the $50 billion Bloomberg didn't get that many votes that he dropped out. Good afternoon. I agree. Citizens United was bound to be a bad candidate. thing and here we are and it's mostly what I want to know is who contributed to which politicians so that I can make an informed choice about when I'm voting I want to know where does that politicians loyalty lie and what I notice about wealthy people or corporations is that they tend to be apolitical or agnostic and they're just gonna apply the person with money you know it's it's it's like an athlete and sponsorship oh we're gonna go with this politician and he's gonna wear our hat and he's gonna be he or she is gonna be our guy or you know And it doesn't matter, Republican or Democrat, these people will just, whoever they think is going to be in there, they're going to ply that person with money. And you guys are in a weak position where you need support. the money to go out and campaign or whatever. And it makes it hard for voters to figure out who to vote for. So, Maggie, it's really easy for you to figure out who gives us money. There's a system called Orstar, which is set up with the Secretary of State. I'm in Oregon and you don't have to be anybody with any special knowledge to actually use Orstar. You can track every dollar that comes into every campaign. The only exception is donations under $50 are normally put all together, right? But other than that, it's open to the public. It is there for the public to be able to hold elected leaders accountable. And it's even easier for the Open and Accountable Elections Program because you can go on the city's website and you can see all of the donations, including the $5 ones. And you can even look at the map of where they've come from. But you're absolutely right, Maggie, that the perception of influence is one of the problems, I think, with trusting government. And that was one of the reasons that we set up this program. So it truly would be open and accountable to you, the people. Right, because otherwise we're just deceiving the voters. Yeah. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners, Madam President of the Council, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, and It was good that we touched on the fact that for Commissioner Fish's seat, there is 13, I think, registered candidates. And... I definitely appreciate Commissioner Fritz's comments about the city's election website because as we sit here and people can see when they see the picture, it gets confusing to remember to call things Commissioner Fritz's seat or position four. Are you actually seated position one, position two, position three, position four because You can see Amanda Fritz is shaking her head. I asked the Chancellor's Commission to change that too, and they decided not to. So perhaps, especially in an election year, it would even be appropriate if we have this lovely six to eight inch newish sign, if there was a number next to the seat, because I don't remember in the voter pamphlet and what we deal with, but, you know, I know there's a race for your daily seat, but I can't remember what position it is. So if somebody says the people running for position X, I can't remember if they're running for Commissioner Fish's special election seat or whether they're in the goofy decisions of Sam Adams challenging Commissioner Udailey. So there's that. And then on the nuts and bolts of the money, it would be interesting if publicly financed candidates running for the open seat are capped and get less money. then is available to Commissioner Udaele and the challengers for those seats. We didn't hear any specific numbers about direct impact, and I don't know if those have been cooked up yet, for lack of a better term. Deeply and seriously analyzed with highest ethics. So if that information is available or if there could be a subsidiary report about the dollar and cent impact on the website. Thanks very much. That actually comes next week. We'll be discussing the amount of money that we're going to allocate for the special election, and there'll be a time certain next week. This sounds so good. You can call it an emergency or not. I bet it is. It is. Of course it is. Of course. All right, thank you both. This is in Shedrick as well. This is an emergency ordinance. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz. I can't stop smiling. This is a really great thing that the City of Portland is doing, that the council is funding. Director Susan Motte and Daniel Likau, you've just done amazing, amazing work as Commissioner Hardesty said. Our partners at Civic Software Foundation have delivered a wonderful project and initiative. system that works really well. You can go to the Open and Accountable Elections website and find all manner of different information about donations, where they come from. And it's an ongoing system, so it's not like you're one and done, you make your thousand donations as it was under voter-owned elections and you get a lump sum. You have to keep fundraising, which means you have to keep talking to people, you have to keep expanding the sphere of influence, and that's really how elections should work. Felly rwy'n wirioneddol hapus gyda hyn. Rwy'n credu mai dyma ateb ddewisol iawn. Diolch i'r Swyddfa Gweinidog, Christian Dennis, am ddychmygu y byddai hyn yn ffordd da i'w wneud. Fel y dywedais, byddwn yn trafod ystod y wythnos nesaf sut maen nhw'n gallu cynnig y cyllid cymorth ar gyfer yr Elysiad Pwysig. Ond yn unigol, Mae'n rhoi dewis i gyflogwyr. Mae'n rhaglen gwirioneddol, mae'n rhaid i bobl ddefnyddio'r rhain, ond mae'n golygu y byddwn yn cyflawni'r cymaint o arian sydd wedi'i ddefnyddio ar eiliadau. Felly gall pobl ariannu i bethau da, fel clinigau trafnidiaeth a gwasanaethau eraill, yn hytrach na'r rhaid i chi ddefnyddio cymaint o arian ar eiliadau cyngor. Mae'n rhaid i chi ddefnyddio llawer o arian i gyrru ar gyfer y Cyngor y Deyrnas Unedig, oherwydd mae'n ystod y deyrnas. wrth gwrs, rwy'n bwynt mor gryf o ran gyrru'r cyfan oherwydd rwy'n hoffi bod yn gallu gofalu am yr holl rhanau o'r cyfan ac nid dim ond y lle rwy'n byw. Felly rwy'n hapus ein bod ni'n darparu'r rhaglen honno, sy'n golygu bod unrhyw un o'r gallai siaradwr wedi cael ei rhedeg gyda phynciau cyhoeddus a chael cychwyn i'r Cyngor y Deyrnas Unedig. Diolch yn fawr i'r holl aelodau i chi am eich cefnogi ar hyn. Diolch i Tim Crail a'r staff i mi, Christina Nievis, sydd wedi helpu i gael y cyflwyniad yn llwyddiannus yn 2016. Mae hi'n gweithio gyda Kate Titus yn y Cyswllt Cymru fel Cyfarwyddwr Ynni. Felly rwy'n hapus iawn i weld hi'n parhau'r gwaith da ac mae hi'n hynod o fawr hefyd. Hardesty? Rwy'n meddwl y dywedais i'r holl beth roeddwn i eisiau ei ddweud am hyn. Rwy'n hoffi ychwanegu sut ydw i'n ymwneud â'r cymaint o ddiddordeb cymunedol i weld y cymaint o wahanolwyr sy'n cymryd ymlaen sydd efallai nad ydynt wedi gweld eu hunain yn rhedeg ar gyfer swydd cyhoeddus cyn y cyfle i gynrychioli'r camau agored a'u cyfrifolwyr cyfrifol. Rwyf wedi siarad â llawer o wahanolwyr sydd wedi yw, o fy ngwch, mae'n ddigon hyfryd i beidio Mae pobl yn gofyn i chi ddiweddaru bob dydd ar y ffôn, yn cymryd arian, er mwyn i'ch llais allan. Mae'n hollol bwysig ein bod yn ariannu mewn system cyhoeddus er mwyn i ni wybod bod y cyflwynwyr sy'n cynrychioli ni, p'un neu'n un, yn dewis defnyddio'r system cyhoeddus, yn cyflwynwyr sy'n cynrychioli beth sydd yn ymwneud â phobl. Rwy'n hapus iawn i wneud y cyflwyniad. Udaily. Wel, rwy'n hoffi adnabod y byddwch yn edrych ar y ddwy, wyth, a chwefn i gael eu cyrraedd i'r Cyngor y Deyrnas Cymru dros dros 100 mlynedd, yn ogystal â'r ddwy ddyn o'r cwbl i gael eu cyrraedd i'r Cyngor y Deyrnas. Er bod ni wedi cymryd y cyngor i gyflawni ein seitau, I think it is incumbent upon us to continue opening the doors wider to women and candidates of color and other underrepresented and underserved community members. I am a huge fan of campaign finance reform and getting corporate money out of politics. I would like to see a bank a ban of corporate contributions in all elections, frankly, an overturn of Citizens United, and real transparency and accountability in our elections. I'm so thankful to Commissioner Fritz for advancing this program and to Susan and Daniel who have done a great job standing this program up in a short period of time. Now we just need to find a permanent home for it. I hope to help in any way I can with that conversation moving forward and I happily vote aye. Wheeler. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for her both persistence and her passion on this issue and working with Director Motte and others to make sure that this is a successful program. Well done, Commissioner, and I'm happy to support this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. I literally have chills. This is so great. Thank you. This is very cool, though. And I believe, oh, yes, so the next item we're going to move it. Do you want to read it, Carla, 192? Authorize a support and maintenance gap contract with Versaterm, Inc., for the computer-aided dispatch system used by the Bureau of Emergency Communications not to exceed $2 million. And we are moving that to 2 p.m. per the Tuesday morning. memo so that the director can participate in that. So if people want to hear that this afternoon, 2 p.m. Portland City Council be there. We are adjourned. Invertible notification. Confirming a time certain for the Northeast Housing Strategy Report. When is the time certain? 10 a.m. when? Perfect. I have verbally confirmed. I'm not hearing anybody in the council chambers standing up and yelling, I object. Wait, wait, I'll object. Too late, he's gone. I'm out of here. See you later, brothers and sisters. Aptrax will travel. What is the strategy report on how we still get money from Bluebird? We do get money from Bluebird. Yeah, isn't he part of the... His philanthropy... Same old city? Yeah, it's interesting because...